ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u1	Today, on November 20, it is the International Day of Children. On this occasion, all members of Congress have received messages from children under the heading "Flata School of the World, " where they call attention to the children's freedom of expression and their right to participate. The message is written in a balloon, hoping that by means of government assistance, children will be able to reach the world's leaders, including the world's. the important message that every child should be protected from violence, every child should go to school, every child should get clean water and home, have friends and family, and that girls and boys have as much right to express themselves. I hope this shipment is appreciated by members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u2	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 94, for advice and for temporary or limited work, from Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u3	A letter from Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Brynjar Níelsson, and Jón Gunnarsson said that they could not do any congregational work in the near future. So today, Tuesday, November 20, November 1, at the General Assembly, whereby the 1st Presidents of the University of Reykjavík, Pawel Bartoszek, is a senior of the South Court of Independence in Reykjavík, Sverrisdóttir Sverisdotir, and 2 a deputy of the County Independence Party, Karen Elísabet Halldórsdóttir, who has announced the premonitation of the list. In the past, they have taken up residence at the General Assembly and are invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u4	Borist has a letter from the 7th. That's the north side. "Elsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Olsen Bjarkey, "that she can't attend next week. Therefore, it is requested that Berglind Häsler be seated at the General Assembly today, a fourth viceist of the left movement's list of green initiatives in the district. Guards up above the list have been calling incursion. At the request of the President, the national government has assembled and issued a bill for Berglind Häsler. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u5	Mr. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The President's commission and observation committee has gathered to review Berglind's Häsler from the National Committee. In agreement with the Commission, they failed to make comments to the theme letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u6	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u7	The Berglind Häsler has not taken up residence at the General Assembly before, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed. Berglind Häsler has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u8	To answer, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, and transport and local government ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u9	Mr. President. It is hard to communicate, and of course it is tragic to see how contributions to important and delicate classes are cut down between discussions. And they're not looking for the wide pies, but they're found the narrowest, and their burdens are hanging on them. Of course, it is equally important and interesting to consider the different roles of the three groups in this cutting process. If you look at your business, contributions to disability, transportation, housing, innovations, education, all under the knife will be made. All the contributions that are responsible for 2,021 million. K. surgery of 2,301 million. K. between discussions, or 88% of the cuts, Mr. President. I know from my own experience that it can be difficult to be the middle child in the family. Sometimes you feel forgotten, your attention is focused on the youngest, and the oldest, but the fact is, the responsibility often strikes the middle child. You have to babysit the youngest and clean up after the eldest. I think it's going to be at least as far as I'm concerned. To be just as difficult to be the middle child of the government. So I want to ask the highest. A minister on how he feels now when his band almost alone has to subsidize the land of the land that has been built on sand. Hardly have these lawsuits I listed all been among those that the classes thought were cut down, or what, the highest. Minister? Of course, it is the closest thing to conclude that the advance company is taking the edge of the budget, but the fact is, unfortunately, that it is an invalid.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u10	A respectable president. I thank you for an interesting inquiry that allows us to answer in a number of ways. As the oldest child in my family, I would like to dismiss the fact that middle children have all responsibility. Of course, those who are the oldest, that is the oldest group in the government. As a result, we too may have the highest responsibility in the government. That's right. A senator has added something that a man must agree with the 2nd. Of course, a financial bill, it reiterates the importance of the cases held by the Agency in the government and is, of course, the reason that we attended very carefully after leading this important three Ministry. Then I want to point out to the ocean these big words about the cutoff between debates and the fact that some particular group is coming in the back. What a far cry, huh? Senator. We're having unprecedented growth. In the past year, we're raising expenses by 65 billion, and we're increasing it by 45 billion from year to year. We're having unprecedented growth. We're putting all the money and increase into exactly the classes, the infrastructure that we agreed on, the government groups, and doing it in harmony with what we can. It has been shown that a building, e.g. The hospital was late. It was supposed to be spring, last spring. That means that we will be able to defend only about 5 billion in return to over 7 billion next year in that building. It has been found that work on the work programme has been delayed. It's not exactly how things are there. Still, we are placing 9 billion people in two years for disability, both as a result of growth but also for an increase in individual joints. And we will have 3 billion more to play next year into that lawsuit. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is how I could go through all the lawsuits, just don't have time in these two minutes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u11	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u12	Mr. President. It is only natural for a minister to focus on building up. You see, I was talking about business and mentioned it in my talk. It's all right to the highest. Ministers talk about it and assume that he is responsible for being the oldest child in the family. How will he justify the cutting down of some 90 million dollars at the same time, with virtually nothing done, and a bargain is largely based on the fact that it will be done? What will he do about transportation? 550 million. K. surgery? Does he intend to take the rest of the Eastern world so that nothing needs to be thought of or what is he going to do? Do you want to push the road through Kopavog? This promised Minister quite well before the election. What's with education? What is the future like? What about our kids? How are we going to face the future by claiming that this is going to be a big offense, and then we are cutting down to college and realizing that the university does not achieve OECD's goal as it is always being said? Finally, the highest. Minister: It's probably a group of debates, and it's a wet barrel in the face of micro-germs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u13	A respectable president. This is just how humans cannot talk unless they insist on creating uneasiness and unnecessary fears in people who are truly gaining significant increases between the two years of government law. It doesn't work to be yelling here from the platform. It's not working. You have to talk about things the way they are. Instead of an increase of 5.4% between years, the increase is 4.6%. Instead of spending 900 billion, they were 890. That's all hell. Of course, it has to be placed somewhere. In transportation, 550 million out of 23.5 billion, only one job takes two, three months, so there's no one involved. Just one large offer will be 95% of the budget and no one will be aware of it. [[Up front.]] We're talking about a scheme for 900 billion next year. [[The president calls.]] And how can humans ever expect them to meet with the exact price of conversation? [[The president calls.]] We're in a state of indiscriminate kindness in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u14	A respectable president. Iceland's post is very serious. In his present system, Iceland is an international agency, and in exchange he will receive his exclusive rights. Privacy from the private rights should be paid at the expense of the public service. In recent years, the exclusive rights service, i.e. Letters of mail, reductions constantly, and as a result, the profits made by the private rights have made it more difficult to pay for the alcove cost so that the same price is available for global mail services. A reduction in the number of messages has been reached. A post-communication agency reports that Iceland has been fully funded by the financial loss of private business through reimbursement changes and that should be able to finance the services. In spite of this, the council has a new budget proposal for the 2020 budget of 1.5 billion. A loan to deal with what is called the cash saving of Iceland's mail. However, both budgets and transport committees have considered the matter, and it appears to be somewhat more complex than financial resources, especially because for the council there is a bill on the investigation of the exclusive rights. Given the circumstances, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of a very simple question, for both the loan and the bill that the council before them tells only one story. When there's a loss of business, the government will be able to handle the situation. After all, the cost is left to taxpayers. In the present system, the cost of cross-country between areas is paid by users. In the future arrangement before the council, the cost of taxpayers is paid as long as profits are marketed. Is that what it is, chief? Minister? Is the loss of personal gain and the land area your loss? Do we see the first sign of the loan that has already been given Iceland, which is the government's policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u15	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't understand a question at all. Senator. [[Up front.]] For the council, there is a bill for the Department of Government and Transport that does the regular work around the mail service. As you know, the stock and business responsibilities at the Ministry of finance are very complex. It's not for selling Iceland. The bill focuses primarily on removing private rights and creating the possibility that it can be done on market conditions, as such. in Sweden, where the mail is still available, all that service within this market policy. There is no need to bring money into the mail to support services in all areas of the country. In Norway, on the other hand, they have adopted the exact same arrangement, that they amass the exclusive rights, and there has been the conclusion, perhaps more similar to what is in Iceland, a large country, a distribution, that inside the alcovement, it has been defined, as in the bill of this change, that people can collect payments in which the mail companies marketd pay for that part. If not gone that way, and that way wasn't gone in Norway, it's from state funds, to ensure minimum services. No one's talking about creating a market object other than company business, i.e. The ability to take the public service on market would mean that the taxpayers'expense would be reduced in areas where services would be maintained. The environment in this bill makes it possible for more people to offer to do this on market grounds so that there would never be a payment from a government fund to support their ministry. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has misunderstood the bill. It is fast changing the arrangement so that others and others may be able to do better, have a better service for less money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u16	A respectable president. The private right is to depend on the cost of the public service. The loan in front of us says that he does not unless the loan we're supposed to pay is not on that basis, that's on some other basis. It's either one. This third European Commission mail directive suggested that the exclusive right of the state of the postal service would be removed and the market would be opened, as the report says, or explained by the bill. It is expected that there will be no rights to the job postal services but will be subject to registration. If a public service is not provided on market grounds, it is suggested that the State's authority secure it by getting one or more members to perform the public service against adding up the cost of the Kingdom Fund. The taxpayers are now being put on a burden, which is not currently the case, since the exclusive right is to be given the funds that the service costs. It's that way with the company now, with these subsidiary companies, who perform a variety of services that are of small interest here and there, not from this service, the service, where the cost is at. There, taxpayers are still to pay. Anything else can be on the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u17	A respectable president. The purpose of personal rights has been stated that it should be possible for him to support the public ministry. Clearly, he has not done so, for from 80 million to 20 letters have gone down during the distribution of the fixed cost. You have to go to the same area. Therefore, the number of mail days has been reduced. Now there are only two official mail days in the whole of Iceland. Who pays when the cost of mail keeps rising? Of course, they're taxpayers. It's the right pocket and the left pocket. Of course, it doesn't matter. How's it going, man? A senator to make sure that all the people of the country sit at the same level and receive a service if this route has not taken full - time service? Once again, and I said it three times when I was speaking to this case at the council: this is not the induction of the European Directive. The mail package, if we call it that way, is not yet in the EEA deal. We're doing this because we believe that it is the right thing to do to change the market in exactly the same way that has been done throughout Europe. [[The president calls.]] We're the last country to have exclusive rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u18	V.E.G. President. I want to direct my words to the highest. Agricultural minister. In the past year, when we discussed the funds of farmers and sheep, their flocks were very serious and uplifted, resulting in a financial supply of 600 to 1,600,700 million. The government responded, and it was well done, and farmers saved by a corner. But when you look at the budget this year, it seems to me that there has been no change in agriculture since last year. However, the status of farmers has not improved, but it is as bad as it has been last year. So why would I like to ask the secretary on behalf of the peasant class: Is there a minister who has something in his sleeve? Can he tell us and the farmers what they can expect in the future, since I see no direct operation for farmers? The situation is that while young farmers are interested, they do not see the benefit of continuing to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u19	A respectable president. I guess I'll have to start by shaking my arm to see if anything gets out of my sleeve? But they don't have any memory, that's just the way they are. It is a contract between the state and the flocks of sheep that went into effect on January 1, 2017, to 2026. There is a revised law in the contract, which is designed to review the agreement of 2019 and 2023. I rushed the review and we are now discussing what is going on based on a form of contract agreement, i.e. An overview of the market agreements is under way, and the contract committees of farmers and the state are in it. There's a meeting right now. At this point, I can't tell you anything about what's coming out of it. In terms of the budget itself, the contract agreed on what has been called a water palace. The total agricultural contributions, if you recall, are combined in budgets of 172 million. A k., which was written between the state and the peasants. To date, the review of this contract has not been made to anything but to make changes in the effort to reduce the production potential within the sheep's flocks on the basis of the same budget as that of the agricultural minister has a process of processing. But the contract is to be respected. I reiterate that there is talk. Sheep farmers have come up with ideas, there are ideas in the Treaty, and they are trying to build them up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. He shook the sleeve but didn't get out of it, so there's nothing much in the sleeve. They are very nervous because the news came in the fall when the office manager was not employed in the Department's field service; rather, he was supposed to unite the office with the Department's International Office, whether there was something to come in the way and respect for farmers and what it was like for the minister to go on this trip. In fact, I've asked about this and asked the minister to see the job committee, but he hasn't responded, and neither has the Ministry. It would be fine, then, if the minister explained to us why he took this journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u21	A respectable president. The budget stands, and individual professional ministers have no authority in it. The budget's at the council itself. The budget is being treated by the budget committee. There is a second discussion. Hv. A senator as well as other members of Congress may be offering suggestions for changing the law. I trust then that they will. But I don't remember. A senator assumes that the agreement made by farmers was made under the seat of one particular platoon leader, who, unfortunately, is not in the hall but is leading the Middle Party now. The agreement was made with his blessing, and he makes a total of 172 million. K. reduction to farmers from year to year. Regarding the office manager's work and the individual recruitments inside the Ministry, it has been customary that the council has not called for further work on the job of recruitment. I have declared it to a professional health committee that it is welcome to review this with her inside the Ministry. I've been meeting with the National Farmer Association in Iceland to help them understand how this is involved in strengthening the position of agriculture within my Ministry. [[The president calls.]] This aim is primarily for these suggestions, although something else was implied in public discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u22	A respectable president. Today, as a worldwide day of children, I got the nice message: I think all children have the right to go to school in the world. I agree with that, and that's why I have an inquiry to the highest level. Minister. The Supreme Court of October 25 states that children and young people and disabled people cannot attend open events at the local Society's art and culture center of the Smokenestown community and another community center for teens, which is on the rent. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Sick People is repeatedly mentioned in the court. That he was not legal enough to give the right to the disabled is ridiculous. In the 9th. The contract comes even. To enable Member States to take appropriate measures to enable disabled persons to live their own lives and to have a full share in all aspects of life. These measures should include efforts to eliminate barriers and barriers that interfere with access, reaching buildings and facilities outside and inside. It also says that 30 C.E. The agreement that Member States should take appropriate action in order to allow disabled persons to share with other activities in leisure, leisure, sports, and to provide disabled people with access to areas where this is going to take place. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: There is no Gilda's access law on the disabled? Is it what the Supreme Court says, that if the United Nations has not been legally established, then all laws and rules may be violated, barriers to sports events and cultural events? Do not the building rules and other rules about disabled people, what children?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson for the inquiry, and although she does not hear directly from my classes, I can, of course, answer it in general. Of course, there are laws, and I don't know any better than both countries and societies that and other people try to fulfill what needs to be met. We know that doing so is not always working well enough. Fortunately, the spokesmen of disabled people and some of the people coming, parents, caregivers, diligent pointing them out, and I think that in most cases, rural society and states fail as fast as possible after incidents. But we also know that there are many old buildings and even monuments that were not anticipated. Sometimes it's hard to plant, but I think everyone can say that they're trying to do their best. Now I don't know exactly what to do. A senator mentioned the original procedure, but I'm sure it's a check to see if you're not doing what most people are trying to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u24	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer, but he's the secretary of transportation. He must make sure that transportation is acceptable. He must see to it and that e.g. A bus ride has access to disabled persons, which should be in accordance with the latest rules. But it does not seem that way. Rather, it seems to be put on disabled persons to charge such a project if it is not in order. I ask: Is it okay to roll things, laws, and rules over to disabled people, things that are supposed to be their own human rights? Is it not only a matter of making sure that everyone has the same access to construction, transportation, and anything? Because it is amazing that they always seem to be in trouble by those who are disabled and whose laws and rules seem to be in trouble. Laws and rules are set, but they don't seem valid. Why can it be said that they are not being applied?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u25	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator had this conversation the other day. It was founded, including. in a good question as of course. A senator sent and in my answer showed how the work is done in Iceland. According to the laws and regulations, all new missions should meet these rules. The inspection is in the hands of the Grouproom the nature of the situation. Of course, if some situations are not the way they should be, whether it is those who are disabled or some other person who encounter obstacles that are not meant to be, they need to be informed. It will be later on as it is taken out. This will, at least, help the review to make a complaint. Of course, it doesn't have to be a complaint or something. It's just that people know where the problem is, so they can focus on setting things straight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u26	Mr. President. I'd like to direct my inquiry to the head of the Agency because of a number of interesting conclusions given by the recent head of the category. This may be the most interesting conclusion that has to do with the Icelandic consumers in various ways. In this way, the category concludes that you should be suspended in the carnivorous industry in competitive legislation. The party is likely to be pleased with the results of a similar dairy barrier. Lactic products have ended up in excess of other foods, including meat, over the 15 years of use. This concludes the category on the importance of banning the import of fresh meat, even though the State is often out of the question and all professional reasons for such a ban have been long since lost. It says that this is merely a direct business barrier designed to maintain food prices in the country. That's what the advance party wants to be on guard. Finally, the category concludes on the importance of Iceland's granting annuity from the induction of the third energy package. I've been absolutely refrained from understanding what it is that candidates see as a threat to the energy package. Iceland is not linked to a common energy market, so there is no power exchange for European institutions. The induction, however, includes intensive consumer protection and increased control of market competitiveness. Is this the root cause of opposition from the candidates? In any case, considering other conclusions made by the head of the class for the weekend, it might seem to be the case. So I ask the highest. A minister and chairman of the forward party: Why do the candidates find themselves so vulnerable to consumers? Why does this group repeatedly oppose consumers, with special interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for very interesting questions. I agree with what. A senator's comments were of particular interest and good interest. I'm just glad they've caught up with it. Senator. They are designed for consumers in the land. I don't know why. A senator has not continued to read the magazines, but e.g. you can see a fine article from a professional in the antibiotic field, a doctor named Karl G. Kristinsson, who speaks of sacrificing more interests for me. To sacrifice the public interest in consumers in Iceland for public health, about the possibility of continuing to go to the store safely and being sure you can buy products that do not contain antibiotic-resistant products for special interests, as well. A senator and his squad fight for it? That they're in charge of a quest? Is this to be about the big food companies in the world that are supposed to run everything on board for consumers in the name of the consumers that may be a little less expensive and possibly one can choose from three or four other products? Instead, the consumer will eat what is produced under circumstances that are not the same as in Iceland. That is exactly what the interesting conclusion from the forwarding party was about. We said, "We're in a unique position in Iceland, special." There is no other country in the world where the E. coli bacteria can be found without antibiotic resistance. This is the only land in Europe, and the farther we come in the continent and the east we go, the greater the increase in the amount of antibiotics used in the production process and the risk of antibiotic resistant bacteria that come in there is, unfortunately, increasing. Hv. Senator. The situation is that experts who have come to know that if they continue to see it, 10 million people will die from this one by 2050, or as many as die from cancer. These are the real interests of consumers in the country. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u28	Mr. President. That was an expected response. The fact is, everyone has been more and less rejected, but it is pointed out that visitors who come to this country are likely to pose a greater health threat to us than to carnivores brought in, fresh, or frozen. So I'm not making a big deal out of the threat we stand for tourists. It's amazing to see this repeatedly in the forward category and, in fact, in the entire national government of this country, the interests of consumers are always under way. We are always certain that we will pay far higher food prices than will go and take place in our neighboring countries. Of course, counting may continue. Here, there is a very persistent guard of a much higher interest level than in our neighboring countries. Our cost of living is about 150,000. higher in a family of four because of the special care of these categories. That remains to be the place guard. I don't like your priorities, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u29	A respectable president. The last thing that ever happened. A senator mentioned that I believe that there is something that we could at least agree on. I know why. A senator and his team have not called for irresponsible economic and financial policies with modest expenses, but rather to aim for a reasonable financial and economic policy that contributes to the reduction of interest. I, however, do not have the same heresy as that of the day. A senator that the only way to do this is to walk in the European Union. I don't believe in the laws of nature that there's going to be a lot more dizziness in Iceland than in any other country. I believe they can be lowered if we follow reasonable financial and economic policies. As a result, I believe that this would be the greatest benefit for Icelanders, and we would also reduce the cost of production, including food. Finally, as our fish export companies did in their time when they were building the quality market abroad, they should be allowed to work together in exactly the same way. If they had not been allowed at that time, they would not have produced this product, which is 15, 20, 30% higher in the world market than in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u30	Mr. President. I hope the President respects it to me as much as I ask the highest degree. Transport and Regional Minister on issues related to his subject within the government. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I've got a little bit of a mind to hear from the highest level. Minister on how to shape air travel for the country. In recent years, we have seen the changes in flights that have become more and more important to our economy. This has been an enormous priority for tourism to the country, which, of course, has had a high economic impact, but such flight activity has become a major part of the economy and a one - or another function related to flying. In addition, our international transport systems are not minimized, but they are still extremely important to the areas away from the capital area. I know it's the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers have begun policy development in this area, general policy development in building infrastructure and working conditions for the article. Since we may have recently kept our minds focused primarily on the management of individual enterprises and possible impacts that might be involved, I wanted to direct the discussion to the general policies that I know have started from the highest level. Minister, but I would like to ask him to explain in brief.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u31	Mr. President. Thank you for an interesting inquiry from what? paritaprevir The bear of the Birgir Ármannsson of a year. Next year, flights will have a 100th anniversary in Iceland. It's been 100 years since the flight started in Iceland. Thus, it is quite remarkable that we have never produced a general flight policy for these 100 years. We started this work in the spring, soon after I got to the Ministry, and there's a group that plans to produce a flight policy, as many countries have suggested in recent years. I'll mention Ireland, for example. Let's hope we have a regular flight policy in the middle of the next year, on our 100th birthday. That's right. That's right. According to a senator, ten, twelve years ago, the fraction of flying and flying - related activity was about 6.6% of national product, but is now estimated to be a quarter or one fifth of the domestic product. Hence, this industry is now very important for the country, for the economy, for the sake of employment, and it is certainly essential to building up for tourism. Therefore, in the Treaty, it was given special emphasis to develop a specific policy for Istavia, not just some general policy for the hf. companies. They're working on it. At the same time, we're completing a working team under the leadership. paritaprevir The northern Njáll of Trausti, the son of Friðbertsson, examines the possibility of expanding domestic flights. One of the advantages - and this could be a correlation between this specific property policy of Istavia set up by the state and structure of the international flight - would be to suggest that Istavia takes over all four international airports, i.e. Akureyri, Egress, Reykjavík, plus Keflavík they're firing today. Then, with a service contract with Istavia, the State would concentrate more on the smaller airports and could strengthen them at the same time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Perhaps I would like to ask him in his second answer to mention a little more detailed ideas on how to build up the domestic airports. The views that concern international flights at more airports are considered today. Increasingly, humans look to a flying route that is different from that of international pilots. Of course, it is important to have such an airport as a spare airport, and it is also important to have direct flights to places other than Cheflavík and Reykjavík, which are known as important in the light of tourism. On the other hand, consider the fact that it may not be possible to build up this ministry everywhere. There must be a setting of priorities. But as far as this is concerned, I think we're facing a very important decision coming up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u33	A respectable president. It is true that in many parts of the country, people have had ideas of using more of the existing airports or even building new ones, as I recall that there is a Senate resolution for the West. We know the talk about Hornland, which could be a reasonable way for a private flight, for it's a security plan to make it to where it belongs. As a result, there could be a stadium that could be useful in the event of a security situation. That would be an international field. More airports are called Alexander's Airport, near the sheep's raffle, or river. But I agree with what. Senator, we need to get our hands on the project now. One of them would be laying on a so - called backup beacon to support the structure of the international airport so that Istavia could do so with dignity. The funds we have in a service contract would be used on one hand to continue building smaller flaws but also, according to concepts of a so - called Scottish way, to subsidize the market prices to the population in certain locations to promote the flight as public transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u34	Mr. President. I come up here simply to commend the highest. A president following this morning's employment committee meeting in which the big, great, important fishing business was being discussed. It was taken out by violence, in my opinion, that it was impervious to receive visitors to whom we proposed after the change in form and then taken to the Committee between 2 and 3. Everybody knows that the main thing in this matter is the first thing, and in most cases here, we're about 2. Of course, this matter will be over in one way or another before New Year's, but I thought it was important that we get a very detailed discussion and at the same time an opportunity to win this thing. But I want to kiss the highest. A president for somewhat meeting us in the position of government. Of course, we would have liked to see it a little different, but I thank the President that he had listened to our voices and tried to promote better work at the council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u35	Only ears are available to the president if there is anything he can do to pay for the Senate work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u36	Mr. President. I'm coming here to say the word. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, it's good that we have had a little time to prepare our approach to this important matter, as well as to be fully informed of its consequences and to talk to the experts involved. That wasn't part of it. We rejoice that there is an extra time to do so, though we may have wanted to have more time and have been better welcomed by these requests at a meeting this morning when the matter was taken out incontroversion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u37	Mr. President. I just want to say the word with what. Councilmen who spoke first and commend the highest. President for taking good care of our proposal. This morning's discussion was not exemplary, and it was very important that the president respond when he did and give us the proper time to discuss such an important matter. I think we all agree that it's especially important that we do it well and try to do it well. So it was a real disappointment that this had to be done with conflict this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u38	Mr. President. The most important thing in every government every year is the budget we're discussing here. It involves a policy of government on key issues. The government has revealed in this financial bill that it is failing to improve the interests of those who are in the interests of their palaces in Icelandic society. Social security payments do not cover adequate implementation, and the majority of revenuers continue to carry heavy tax burden on the income tax system. The survival efforts of older ones and disability who have the will and ability to increase their jobs are beaten down with excessive taxation and impairment, which will appear earlier than ever if they are moving to gain life's necessities. No actions are predictable on the part of the government to reduce insurance loans in the country's homes or even if only to cut off the indexial housing which would be half the success of the insurance policy, since this is the only factor of the index number that increases the loans by nearly 90% of the number during the past few years. No, Mr. President, this fact is fraught with school ears and pretend everything is fine. In this struggle, the financial elements have continued to bleed. In the face of this inaction with insurance insurance insurance, we can look forward to the fact that in the years following collapse in 10,000 families have lost their homes, a total of some 30,000 people, and likely a substantial percentage more if all was counted. Today, epidemic drug diseases rage in our country, and the response of the government is not sufficient for us in the mob. The activities of the YA will need to be maintained even more. It is important to strengthen the local police, increase the number of local police officers, and promote police general and visible surveillance. There must also be solid foundations under border watch, and other items might be drawn. Mr. President. In this discussion of the budget, I'm going to discuss the focus of the people in order to meet the urgent need we believe is there to improve the interests of those who have to live under 300,000 dollars. and still paying taxes on their income, no matter how humorous it may sound when it is said aloud in this sermon. In the fall of the council, a group of people have proposed a number of matters, all of which are subject to the same objective, to the right standing of those who are in the best of their feet in our society. I'm going to go over our suggestions in short, starting with the three issues we put first. First of all, we proposed a Congress resolution on the lack of pay less than 300,000 dollars. and said, "What?" paritaprevir Ólafur Isleus Ísleifsson to her on September 26, 2000. That proposal was supported by six members of two classes. This is big. Why do I say that? Because these are all the most lucrative groups for the good, for the elderly, for the poor, for the desperate, for the workers, and for all the underpayers. That's why it's a big deal. There's no butts here. No, it's not possible, tell the rulers, it's so expensive. But how expensive is it? It costs, but it's quite possible. Mr. President. I want from this talk to see that this may be the case. to discuss the most aggressive proposal available to the Council today regarding changes in the state's revenue system as well as the proposal that goes on the longest in dealing with those who have to face life on all too low incomes and pay on a higher rate of taxation. Mr. President. The proposal assumes that the General Assembly would hide financial and economic secretary's use of monthly income of individuals under 300,000 dollars. if the taxpayer is withheld and that a minister by law and by order of Regulation shall take appropriate measures to be taken in the pre-Environment of 2018. This proposal is based on accurate calculations published in the report by Dr. Arnþórsson Arnethon, who worked for the Party of Gangs and follows the motion. There a minister is assigned to set up a timetable for earning an individual under 300,000 dollars. ... ifthere'sa understatement. Those tax limits are equal to 106,387 k. A person's withdrawal is a double tax limit from the present. The criteria for calculation are that the tax step remains unchanged. This suggests that to achieve two main objectives, it is to equal the tax burden between income groups so that society's business interests become more like those in the North and to protect those who have income under the limits of living to pay taxes to the public. The proposal is ejected from a long - term trend where tax loads have moved from income to the low income. The benefits of this change are met by making personal recovery a gradual decline as income increases, with a total drop of 970,000. pay, and those who make money over them will receive no personal discount, and they will be the tax burden of all those above their height, i.e. tax burden for anyone over 970,000. will raise less than 54,000 bucks. The character extract is falling along a curved process that not only softens the effects on income - greater groups but also shows that the emphasis is strongly to increase the provision of low-payers. The winter point of reduced and higher taxes is to earn a sum of 562,000 dollars. and will gradually increase from that amount, compared to the current position, with rising income until the tax rate reaches 53,895. We're nearly 1 billion. K. ... money. Thus, the rate of higher income would be the same. Increased income taxes from higher income will be used to reduce the tax burden of those who earn less money. The calculations made in the report by Dr. Haukur show a comparison between this proposal and the proposal made by independents in the conduct of their last campaign to reduce the tax rate to 35% for all equal, see how it goes out with the taxpayers. It shows that 35% of the independence proposals cost the State budget 22 billion, but the rural society only 2 billion, adding a very small amount of resources to the underpayers, as has been so many times here. However, the proposal by Archduff is $1.4 billion in advance. costs for rural society, but only about 0.6 billion. expenses at government funds. These suggestions contain 8 billion dollars. Difference. That's all. Is it impossible? No. Is this a matter of justice? Yeah. Mr. President. Bear in mind that this is a proposal for changes in the general tax system and new goals. The proposal is to extend the tax burden of earners and the low income in this country compared to the proportions between comparable groups elsewhere in the North countries as well as to be able to provide the lowest wage for alimony. The aim of the proposal is that income that is not sufficient for further implementation according to established standards and is published on government websites, on the welfare department's web, will not be taxed. In addition to the social aims of increasing the equation in the tax system, the tax ratios are closer to what happens and goes on in the North countries, and we cut down particularly from them to the highest income yields 8% lower tax than the average of the neighboring countries, as attributed to the resolution and the tax burden of income groups. If this proposal were to succeed, Mr. President, she would serve the interests of the elderly, the desperate, and the income of the income, and be a huge leap toward the poverty that really exists here. Mr. President. Second, I'd like to mention our bill, which is intended to attack the roots of the insurance policy, but it was recommended on September 17 of that year, a bill for a change in growth and insurance law supported by 11 members from two categories. That bill contains a main policy for four main points. Its objective is to balance the level of the contract on securities loans to buy in an apartment building, but no one needs to get the mind of having partners on loans because of high level of housing, especially because of a wide variety of financial advantages, as well as much as when it comes to knowledge of financial matters. Betrayal loans are not simple in nature. Banks have far more knowledge of financial markets and of the factors that can affect the development of prices and prices than the public. The fall of the crown and the inflation that followed the 2008 economic collapse are generally freshly remembered, as well as the effects of these events on inflatable loans with dire consequences for the country's homes and for the benefit of families. So, then, all materials are designed to take significant steps to balance the great potential between the parties of such loan agreements. The four main elements of the bill are, first of all, insurance is a means of dealing with the effects of public prices that should be attributed to the fall of the crown at such times. Such prices are far different from the price change caused by the government's specific actions, which result in a change in price prices. The specific actions are thus expected not to fall under this general and accepted definition of inflation. Here, in the light of government decisions involved in the pursuit of financial funds, such as the effects of changes in indirect taxes and specific forms of the basis for individual products such as fuel, alcohol, and tobacco. There is no material to lend credit to loans that lend creditors make up tax increases that are used to cover public service projects and that have the nature of the situation in order to pay equal attention to all their purchases. The same applies also to tax laws aimed at achieving certain social goals, e.g. with a set of health and loyalty-to-target categories and on fuel to achieve targets for global commitments in climate such as carbon pay. There is no substance to add an extra loan to the borrowers of insurance apartment loans. Second, it has been observed that in recent years, the so - called index value of consumer prices that do not rely on internationally established standards has resulted in a much greater increase in the number of ossuary increases and payments of insured loans than in the general cost raise in the country. The financial and economic minister has learned that over a five-year period, 20123/42017, the prices of an apartment loan due to a general increase in prices were 15 billion, but at the same time 118 billion were above the prices of an apartment loan because of the impact of the index number's housing teams. Thus, the share of the price of housing is 88.7%. The bill suggests that due to the factors considered here, indirect taxes and indexal housing teams, the Icelandic Economic Office will be assigned to publish the index prices where the effects of these factors are withdrawn. Then use that index to calculate the price-separated mortgages. Third, the bill states that when an apartment loan is in the form of a security loan, loan time may not be longer than 25 years. The reason for this change lies primarily in the unfortunate price - free loans in the long run that the loans of prices are rolled over and their payments are postponed. Undivided and longer loans make property more slowly and more likely to increase the risk of making loans. The consumers may not have been sufficiently aware of the risks of paying loans, especially the longer loans of 40 years, which have long been the most common apartment loans in the United States. Fourth, the bill states that the interest rates of insurance apartment loans must not exceed 2% a year. Presumptuous agreements have thus been determined under market conditions, which often appear to be rather consistent with the lack of competition than competition. Mr. President. Third, I'd like to name a bill to legalize social security laws, cut-off pensions on employment income. The bill was recommended for October 25th. and there are nine senators of three categories. In 31st. track No. 96/2017 guarantees that a hundred thousand will be paid for by pensioners. a special cut-off for a job at 23rd degree. Act on social security. This is a special vacation market for senior citizens, which comes in addition to the common law's common budget of $25,000. per month. By law number 116/2016, the change in social security law and other laws, the number of songs included The change in the social security pension system has been made that all special vacation limits due to individual types of income have been removed. Instead, they had one general budget of $25,000. This is true of all the incomes of a pensioner, regardless of species. In the past, the default market for social security in pensions had been 109,000 dollars. After the accordion of the law, the change in employment interest was made critical and has been made necessary by the bodies of elderly and other bodies to eliminate the decrease in older citizens' income. Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson, who won a report on the economic situation of the elderly for the older citizen Fégá in Reykjavík, wrote on his study in the Morning newspaper of 2017. It shows that the delinquency of pension payments for employment does not have to include additional financial expenses and that it may well be possible that government funds may be of financial benefit to the operation. It is unmistakably that continuing work after the age of sensibilities increases the ability of the elderly to improve their prowess, especially those with the lowest income. Research has shown that work and effectiveness in later years contribute to better health, reduced isolation, and generally have high social value for older citizens. It is therefore suggested that the payment of a pensioner should not be restricted for the sake of employment, as stated in Article 23. Act on social security. This case is public health, Mr. President, for the elderly who can and wants to work longer. What's more, it doesn't cost a dollar. Mr. President. Now I've listed the three issues, two bills, and one suggestion to be held in Congress, which the people's party has put on top of their priorities. But not all of this, for I would also like to mention some other cases designed to bring justice to those to whom we represent them. Next, there is a bill to correct the change in home loans to consumers, a so - called key bill. It was short of nine members of four classes, and it was recommended on November 14 of that year. Remarks headed for the same goal as this bill have been submitted at least Five times before. It is about to establish a solid basis for the household's Hagsholds and is based on the same reasoning that was presented to the former projectors. On the other hand, more recent legal developments take into account some other way in which it is being implemented. The bill makes a suggestion that can have a great deal of meaning for those who face problems that lead to loss of their home on forced sales. In short, the bill assumes that the loan's post is dropped by forced sales or similar measures and that the borrower is free of all cases, can actually return the key, as it were. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the careful loaning of loans by handing debts to mortgage loans, i.e. The real estate, and if you hit the bank, walk away without debts. The bill is such an important factor in distributing risks in real estate loans and giving domestic loans that there is a one - sided risk and only on the hand of loans. Mr. President. Finally, I'm going to give you a bill to legalize the law on the affairs of the elderly, i.e. The wealth of older ones who have been laid up but not recommended so far. That bill is supported by 11 members of three panels. The objective of this bill is to ensure that money from the elderly is spent on the construction of service centres and day - to - day institutions and institutions for the elderly, as laid down in the law for years of failure. If the bill falls to the legal level, the provisional law on the warrant is to protect funds from the fund in order to cover the cost of nursing care for the elderly, as it says. This is a need for change and a long time for the money to go to what was expected in the first place. Mr. President. Then I have considered five suggestions from the Pharaohs to meet the call of those who were in the arms of society, and more will soon appear. Since I see that I still have time to spare, I would like to briefly mention other concerns that are very important to me. First, I'm going to name the law. For many years the country's police have endured financial gains. From the turn of the century on, it seems that all the guidelines for adequate human resources have been thrown into the hands of the police. As the police work has grown, the number of people in the country, and the number of tourists in the country has increased for many years, but the number of police has decreased. It is a burden to bear the high value of the law on the surface of the country and to remember most urgent needs for police officers in the South because of frequent accidents and a large number of tourists. It is safe to say that law enforcement funds are not at all sufficient to guarantee the work conditions necessary in today's society. The urgent need for an increasing number of police officers, as is shown by a number of reports, e.g. A 2012 Internal Affairs Report on the state of the police where the police's main problem is thought to be a reduction in the number of police officers. There is no question about the importance of the basic role of the police, which is to ensure safety of the city, prevent crime and investigate it, but also its services, its support and support, as well as its role in cooperation with other society institutions in many ways. Over the decades, much and varied changes have been made in society. Increasing internationalization and large - scale travel and migration have resulted in the fact that police work in general has become more difficult and more complex. According to a report published in October 2017, a predictable trend in organized crime, including international crime, extending its fragrance, drug trade, mantel, prostitution, etc., is under way. The department believes that there will be a continuation of this trend and that in reality there is a continuing situation. It is important that the police are allowed to organize their work on the basis of a systematic analysis of the development of national and internationalities where crime and other law enforcement problems are intended to prevent them. Finally, it must be noted that threats are not only anticipated. The police must also be strong enough to deal with unknown threats that may arise suddenly. Therefore, the police need to be sufficiently strong in the area of safety and so flexible that they have the potential to cope with dangers that are not before them. According to a report submitted to a presentation at the General Assembly, in 2013 236 police officers were missing. The report on the work of a committee arranged on the basis of Congress resolution from the General Assembly in June 2012. The Commission concluded that there was a great increase in police activity. The report lists priorities within the police. It is at the top of the list of public police departments, i.e. Officers in charge of calling and general police control. A U.S. Marshal concluded that police officers would have to be a minimum of 860 in the whole country. It stated that the number of policemen in 2007 was 712, which decreased to 624 in 2012, about 88 police officers. The report estimated that there are 79 more policemen in the country and that an increase in the number of police in the country around 236 to 2017 is needed by nearly 38%. So, what has been the development? In this year's reply to a justice minister to an inquiry from the above, 636 police officers were educated in February and are therefore 20 less than six years earlier when the above report was prepared. So more than 240 police officers are still missing. At the same time, the number of local police officers has increased. The need for police funding to increase enough to allow police officers to at least The increase in proportion to what this committee mentioned was necessary in 2012. There is little evidence on the financial bill that the government has plans to achieve that goal, and it can be said that a long distance from it. Mr. President. A group of people stress that the district office of the country will be strengthened and will be enabled to perform more fully its function. After the much changes made in the number of county candidates for 2015, offices have fought in the banks because of insufficient funds. Also, the promise of carrying out tasks to them has not been fulfilled. It is necessary to strengthen the county office and to trust their work ground so that they can live up to the name of the State's execution and service of the district. It is necessary not only to increase the budget of the Agency as well as to make promises of the transport of projects from councils and institutions to the country and to the Commission. Mr. President. Despite the government's offer of a major transport campaign, it is clear that many urgent and urgent transport projects are still to wait, and that includes double the Havelfhjörður tunnel, the Sunway, the Elfjörður Bridge, the Futurah, and this is how I could continue to count. Improvements in transport are being made in many ways to the inhabitants of the country and to strengthen their habitats and occupations. Based on a separation policy from the capital, south to Cheflavík, Citynes, and east of Selephos, it takes way too long. Mr. President. It is essential to speed up a major road project, and it is unacceptable that the government groups will be able to provide access to these issues when the whole road system is under great traffic pressure and improvement is needed. In view of the information presented by the representatives of the Road Building, at a recent meeting with a financial committee, a group of people gives reasons to investigate the benefits of group transport, transport and freight vehicle erosions by measures such as the limitations of the axlet-weight, military rules for mass rivers, as well as the number of tires per axis, as well as the rules of width and lower air pressure in the biomass of these vehicles. This information from Vega suggests that larger automobiles and heavy cars are destroyed, and the roads are severely damaged, with thousands more than tens of thousands of people, if not tens of thousands of people. Why not take action to stop what I mentioned earlier? A group of people points out and agree with the Group of Tourists in their review of the budget that as it is shown, slowing the rate of economic growth is an excellent opportunity to consider increasing transport maintenance and innovation. Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to mention the last time we're going to do forestry and we're going to talk about carbon binding. I would like to discuss the importance of maintaining the initially proposed carbon binding programme by forestry and land healing. I noticed that the amount of donations for carbon binding is smaller than the first motion of budget 2019. Thus, the increase in 2019 is not 250 million, as are the seven Ministers of the government, but more than 160 million are introduced. This appears to be due to the contractions of the plan, the contractions related to the climate programme. The 2019 cutting is about 50 million. K. A decrease is also expected from previously thought-ins for crops to grow farms and Hiklu forests. Mr. President. Carbon emissions continue to increase industrial, flying, driving, and increasing activities, not to mention the increase in land production. The only realistic way to bind carbon is through forestry or land healing. It must begin immediately and make use of any existing infrastructure to begin this course. There have been reliable plans for binding through fourfoldation of forestry. That plan means that in 2023, annual vegetation was four-fold, from 3.1 million trees to 12.4 million. Thus, in 2030, U.S. forests will bind 587,000 tons of carbon dioxide each year and the area of the new forest will be 75,000 acres [7,000 ha], which is only 0.75 percent of the land's area. The same continued, with an annual bond in the forest of 886,000 carbon - leveltons in the year 2040, the area of the new forest grows to 1,12,000 acres, which are only 1.2% of the whole country. In addition, hundreds of thousands of tons can be tied by land healing. So these are building resources for the future, creating descendants of self-sustained timbers, securing employment in scattered habitats and biodiversity, as well as enabling them to live up to international commitments in climate. It is vital that we trust the programs that have been set up for the funding of this project. Only in this way can plant production be built in the country, and it can be assured that its binding can be started immediately by foresting, agriculture, and the recovery of birch forests. In view of this, it is entirely absurd to plan to reduce donations to carbon binding rather than raise them and think about the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u39	Mr. President. Each year's budget is the highest policy in the government. Time is passing quickly, and now we will discuss other financial laws by the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, a government established to set matters straight. To trust in the infrastructure that has been financed for years, the government laid on the market, the government that now puts up budgets. Yes, there's expenses, but that would be our fortune. What do the Ministers say here, one by one? It's inconceivable prosperity. But the budget bill, as well as the changes made by the government itself, was made between 1 and 2. you can see the priority of the government in general. In the United States, we've produced some 17-communications that all of us go along well with the course that at least... Some governmental classes should be easy to support. You see, the width can become very thin, and it seems to have become the case with the government of today. In the United States, we do not put forth unscrupulous or irresponsible ideas on the change of funds, but, in fact, well - thought - out suggestions, financed by specific goals. Our guide is to increase the equation here, to increase the equation in Icelandic society. You see, we want to share the good things that divide us to a good society. There, governments have recently failed miserably, especially when it comes to major operations such as the home's debt correction, which the then state of Independence and Progress party had, measures that were best documented to those who had the best real estate owner, most likely as studies show. The 17 suggestions have been thoroughly introduced. The members of the United States, and I'm not going to go on to introduce every suggestion here and repeat what has been said before: Yes, we're here discussing these budgets, which are much of which are budget laws, but unfortunately we believe in the Conspiracy that Katrín's government failed to increase here an equation, the necessary equation, as well as to trust our foundations, the infrastructure itself. Because, in recent years, though, debt has indeed fallen dramatically, such as the rest of the year. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, correctly introduced in his speech yesterday, is certainly a worthy assignment but has little value while the children are starving. Now I'm using metaphors, Mr. President, because I'm not necessarily talking about starving children in my own sense. I'm talking about how it's being held in charge of this national home. We are in the middle of the good news, and the difficult years are over. There's nothing in itself but bright ahead, said Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. Secretary of finance and head of the Independence Party at his party at our last meeting last spring. - In itself, nothing but bright ahead. How did this appear to us after the reign of the Independence Party in the Ministry of finance in the past few years? The light is revealed by infrastructures so badly damaged that it must take place everywhere only to prevent significant damage to our country's common property. We are talking about health institutions, here in the capital area as well as in all parts of the country. We're talking about a means of transportation that's become dangerous, getting a complete drop score in comparison with other countries. We're talking about damage to welfare, health and law enforcement systems and more. I could use all the 40 minutes just to talk about how one of these members of the board and sometimes two of them have treated our common possessions. That is why, Mr. President, we need substantial expenses and it costs money. There must be money for the government. It must not be bad. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who was laid on the market, cannot agree on how to make money to handle these needed expenses, and that is why the situation is the way it is. The journey is halfway, or we may say another way in some areas, but not the necessary way to prevent further damage. First, I would like to point out that particular position to the expense of the welfare of the world's most important matters decreases between the 1st and 2nd. This is an extremely delicate case for the government parties, but this is no bullshit, Mr. President. It's a part-time modification proposal. It says that the change in the share's proposal that contributions to disability should be reduced by 1,100 billion. At a rate, 1.1 billion since the budget was submitted, which gave the government's plan - a decrease of 1.1 billion. This is explained by the lack of the results of the World System Change Committee and therefore a continuation of this procedure to the next year. There is no conclusion. We in the United States have repeatedly noted that there is no reason to prevent long timely correction of the ideal microchip with a folding of a crown against the crown of injustice. There's no need to wait, no one. It was supposed to be the government's intention to initiate that expedition, but just not right away. This has also been shown in the reasonings of the Generals, including those of the United States. Yeah. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, that we are irresponsible in the United States and others who have spoken of the fact that these 4 billion get to be in there, to contribute 4 billion when it is not clear how they will be taken care of. But then you must ask: What about the 2.9 billion ones that have now been decided to stay in that room? Nothing's been decided. The committee hasn't finished its mission yet. She hasn't decided how this system modification should be performed. But with this argument, that there are tremendously irresponsible talk of 4 billion, are there 2.9 billion more responsible talk? Is it more responsible? That's why. A senator's not feeling well. Because who is this coin, 2.9 billion? It is the price that the government plans to change, not for years, but only from the second period of the next budget year. What's the problem? We in the United States have noted that governments are not uninvolved to allow this system conversion simply to go back on January 1, 2019. So, although the final implementation is not yet established, at least Do not compromise the possibility of this group, the worst in society, to obtain a little biosaturation. Why should that not be possible in this case, such as so many others? There is no end to it. This is a serious operation in terms of purchase or election, and why not now? A determined will is needed to make a decision to reduce a promising contribution to disability by 1,100 million. K. Just like that. I'd like to talk to you about taking off a penny in return to a dollar. Where are we going to take the money for that operation? The government worked for 4 billion, but the government's income opportunities are highly malnourished. Some of these are in the middle of a miseries where governments have, for example, a government. I'm determined to reduce the cost of resource from hunting holes by a total of 3 billion. It is more than any amount of money that was set on this project, to cut off a dollar from a dollar. That's more than an increase. And that despite the billions of dollars in the recent article. The government is going to lower the cost of fishing on all 3 billion at the same time that the U.S. dollar falls by 15% of what may be a delight for exporters, including fish exporters, very well. They have carried themselves very badly because of the sponsorship of the crown, although they may not have meant the largest money they earn. But now she has grown sick, she has been sick every month since the reign of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir became ill and continues to get sick. Then there should be plenty of space for those in the export, those who catch our fish from the sea to provide a natural resource for the use of this resource. But no, the government considers it more important to postpone and take less steps for disability. That's what the government feels like to do. To postpone a cent against a cent that everyone in this room will agree on is a grossly unjust system. I allow myself to state that no one in this room is ready for the date we offer to the microchip. No one would be willing to make any extra payments for the members of the Parliament's field service a little too slow from the foundation. It's an unjust system. We can fix it. Mr. President, the price of these actions, of dropping a crown to the crown of injustice, is not necessarily true. Is it likely that the cost - making results will always be the basis for nothing, but what is spared to encourage disability? The wealth of money, however, makes a considerable contribution to the activeness of this group, but at the same time, it is reasonable to conclude that material creation also takes place. In this way, it can also be assumed that with increased activity any part of the current energy level, including reduced disability rates, or eventually even total loss of energy, may be achieved because of mental illness. Thus, the power of any kind and type of activity can do a tremendous amount of good. And while we are just looking at the enriching of one person's life, it is worth more than that. Why, then, should we postpone it? Why can't we do just fine with this group for once? Why can't we just increase the pace that takes place next year? Enlarged by the estimated 1,100 million? What science has said that 2.9 billion are the exact figure that comes out of work during the changes in the system? How is that figure found? There is no burden in it, just injustice, and much less injustice in the hands of the poor, when there is no prosperity, the more upright are able to walk through the streets of the land. Everyone wins, ministers in Iceland's government. Only for transportation. In the management of road transport programmes. The Environment and Transport Committee does not appear to be content with any person who sends in a review or meeting with the committee. All quarters of the country cry out with a loud voice. In some places, road users are at risk every day because of traffic weights, while tyres explode, and schoolchildren refuse to go to school with school cars that are not well - maintained around scattered areas of the country. Yes, whether we believe it or not, it is only bound to a fragment in about half the roads. As far as India and the Philippines are concerned, we stand at the quality of the road system. India and the Philippines are great countries, sure. But in a five-star food system on the world's roads most of us challenge one and two stars. We rarely reach a three - star road system, much less the four and five stars that are normally seen in our neighboring countries. So we have our road system on a pair of people with what is known in India and the Philippines. Between 1 and 2nd. The budget was then decided to cut down previously a set amount of transport expenses of over half a billion dollars, despite a quarter of a year's budget. Yes, and in spite of that suggestion, now is the time. The Environment and Transport Committee has found a meeting to complete the transport programme that set out the funds that are being introduced there. But now an adjustment is proposed that reduces the pressure by half a billion without explanation or logical support. Or what? What will the government do? What does she suggest? Will she cancel the development of Smokeynes Ways? Or will she cancel the necessary transportation to the South or West? Did you cancel finishing an animal tunnel or maybe cut off some transport in the East? Or should we talk about public transportation? What about public transportation, which is the basic premise that we can live up to our commitment to climate? Will the government do anything there? No, no. There's no such idea from the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. No increase is observed between discussions despite the obvious need and indication that no amount of money will be expected, e.g. in the most important transport reform of the capital area, the very city line now set out to lay 5 billion in the next few years. That's where the government will give away the wealth. In spite of the agreement between the highest, even the most important form of business is not marked on the part of the government. The secretary of transportation and the countryside in the capital area. How, then, will the government cooperate with rural society? Public transportation across the country is rising by a total of 150 million. K. Overall. It seems so fun that this figure is 50 million dollars lower than the cost of establishing a special legal office in the Ministry of Justice, in terms of its presentation on that project. So that's 200 billion. K. to bring an equal case from one Ministry to another, but we are going to increase our contribution to public transport over the whole country, which is the basis for our climate operations, about 150 million. The budget bill says this money, this 150 million. K. in increased cost of public transport, including to use in accordance with current national decision-making agreements. Because more and less are run by losing all over the country. There is no discussion of funding for new community transport, and, as previously said, nothing about the largest urban core of the country, the capital area of about 70% of the country's population, except for the rest of the tourists. There is no sign of financial success in promoting public transportation to show that the government is really serious about the climate and shows that the budget is not even expected for the current public transport around the country, in view of the poor financial situation there. It is an amazing lack of ambition for the government that on conflict days talk about taking major steps in climate. That's where the contaminating car is everything. Mr. President. I also want to talk about high school. In the very careful review of Iceland's Teacher Society, the Society reiterates its view that high school has not yet recovered from long - term, serious financial benefits. So if a budget and the General are challenged to take matters of high school seriously, they will respond without delay because the government's further plans to attend school are not sufficient to deal with the problems there is. For work and industry that the government is talking about promoting, including in a government covenant, but also in a number of discourses, it is clear that this tone is completely hollow. If she is more expensive than the book study and becomes the government, if she is serious about further learning, to contribute further funds to the schools that have their technical and professional educations. If the government doesn't do that, then there's nothing to say. It's different at the top of the subject. Secretary of education, i.e. TV light. We're in the United States for 300 million. K. Additions to that category and therefore there are many reasons for doing so. The official's support for the Icelandic television game, which has never been so desirable in the world, is a disgrace. That support exists as a tool. We welcome foreign television shows, hypnotizing, North American shows, how powerful our cousins are in the production of quality television programs, but at the same time, we quite forget to give proper support to this tremendously important profession. The Icelandic summer of movie and television shows has long begun. We're going for prizes. The government has no intention of participating. There are many exciting eras -- rather, on the farm, that are now nowhere to go because of lack of money. As we know, a donation from Iceland is the source of a source that can be drawn from a fund abroad. There are Icelandic movie and televisionmakers, women and men. They are very powerful to pick up from this fund, but there are always these factors: Did you get a scholarship at home? Prisoner's excellent series of filmings is just waiting, even though the script is long ready and all its parts have been completed. It sucks, for at the same time, foreign television networks are very eager to buy Icelandic TV programs, which restores the increase in income in the state funds and in many areas. So we in the United States ask members of Congress to give careful thought to supporting our decision to add to this party. Mr. President. I'd like to come to the end to the police only because we get every month and every report of a total police situation all over the country, and so it's been way too long. Three police officers are ordered to patrol 60,000 areas in Kópavogi and Breinholt at night. The police office is a subsidiary and is the indication of this being answered by the minister of justice by a large increase in expenses to the seminary. There's black whites where expenses for law enforcement and manpower have been kept uninhibited, but there's a considerable increase in buying helicopters for D.A. A financial program showed that the plan was to spend a total of 14 billion dollars. to buy on the helicopters, but that's not police design. Police continue to endure surgery, overwork, subjugation, and then we're talking about the insecurity of civilians and a lot of slow-down activity and the investigation of cases that'll take care of themselves, affecting the defendants, cutting down our whole system. The Independence Party's intention to privatize the law enforcement team, wouldn't it? I could carry on all day with them on budgets, where it'll be better. Not a pet project, but the factors in which we must do better to prevent harm. I'm going to be content with this for the time being, for the sake of our individual teams, and rather refer to our members as members of the committee at what time. It's a legal committee. Mr. President. When driving into a home, both have to pay the bills as well as give the children the necessary food and clothing. The same is true of the government. In this regard, the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, seems to have failed miserably. Because our basic supplies, our infrastructure, continue to cram when needed contributions are needed. We'll have to do better, and I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen to consider our proposals for the United States Congress, which are fully financed and designed to increase our balance and prosperity in our rich society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u40	Yeah, I'm on top of it. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for his talk, which was a great deal of compensation. If there has been any criticism in the sources that have sent in reviews to this bill, we are more likely to be adding, adding some of the expenses, and it can be fully watched. Of course, the welfare system, education, transportation, is about to be set aside in climate. I was gonna come up here because of what I'm doing. One senator spoke of an irresponsible postponement of a part of the bill, 4 billion, a special project to wind down a bad system that I believe is a solid agreement for the council to unwind. What's irresponsible about the Conspiracy and what's wrong. A senator's claim is that disability is being reduced. On the contrary, compensation for disability is being increased, it is. It also states that these 4 billion are going on that assignment. The point is, this is at least a time to make these budgets, to bring them closer to that time, to give a minister time to bring in the suggestions that hopefully come soon. Then we can discuss these suggestions and what solutions we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u41	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator and the chairman of the budget board are very much responsible for the counterargument. He should have all the numbers completely clear, and all the grounds practically engraved in his palm, which he has spent the night working on this matter. I've noticed why. A senator has sat here without letup since 2nd. he should know that we in the United States have never said that improvements are being made, ever. We've never claimed that. It's a twist, isn't it? A senator, who is always spinning from time to time. We're talking about and we've always talked about that between the 1st and the 2nd. was the contribution that had already been made. Why am I talking about how we should have kept them in 4 billion? Because the 2.9 billion who have now decided to enter there are completely unexplained, the price tag. For some reason, there was a whisk. A senator didn't know what to do, but I asked about it earlier. Why 2.9 billion? Is that how we can take out a full dollar against the crummys? No, I don't think so. I think we both know it doesn't happen that way. Why, then, is it $2.9 billion? Can we not use all 4 billion on this project? Is it a law that it can't be done, just when it comes to microorganism?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It's a good thing that there are 4 billion people on this project. However, there is still a question of giving a ministerial servant the time to enter a proposal, and once we have seen it, we can discuss how to implement it. This is so that at some point it will be delayed, while the funds are taken closer to what is expected to take place next year. That's what I'm thinking. Of course, all of us would have wanted it to lower the proposal so that we could talk about it and publish the budgets of 4 billion that, and I don't reiterate it often enough, are attached to the project. There are 4 billion on this project. We're in a hurry. Then I wanted to come in a little bit on transportation and these 500 million. It is not known which tasks are involved, but there is a large increase in the fact that it is clear that all tasks cannot be completed. It will work together with Vega's making, where it will not be the end of a project, and it may not be until the year passes. You need men and tools and resources to complete all your assignments. That's why there's a reduction. However, it is reasonable to note that the net value of all these measures is the same, i.e. 1% of gross domestic product, which is subject to policy yields.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and the chairman of the budget board are very much for, perhaps not a question, but later an answer. First, about the proportions of net land production. I think we can quite agree that even if this is a relative number and is of net-land production, it's the only thing that matters when it's done. There's no ratio. We have to pay for construction, work, maintenance, and new projects, and there's a dollar there. It is not a percentage of something else, to be maintained. It's a lot of money, I totally agree, but the need is urgent. We are having a very bad time when it comes to transportation, and because of this situation, one of the board of directors is now driving around the country and presenting our own transport program, which is not the highest transport strategy. The secretary of transportation and the head of the advance party is setting up some other transport strategy. At the same time at the Environment and Transport Committee, the transport programme we're working on and at the same time is getting something new from a financial committee. But this is a senator's trial that I've given in mind. I'd like to go to the end and ask what. A senator, who came in to over four billion, receives a crown of correction. Then you wonder only at the decline of about 1.1 billion. Does this mean that a reduction will be taken from something other than this system change and what?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u44	Mr. President. It has already been held a number of well - illuminating points on various aspects of the budget at this point. After all, after the work that has been done since 1st. Of course, the changes that many of us make are a source of considerable attention. I'm going to do my first talk on the bill trying to focus on the big movie, i.e. Consider how this whole budget is being held, and then, if there is time now or in the second talk, will continue to exist. I'll take a closer look at each other. The budget is now much like the last financial bill of this government. These are other government budgets and bear very much the evidence of how this government was established. I think it's safe to say that it's not surprising. Many of those who knew these political parties and how the government was formed and on what basis could have given themselves the financial resources of such a government. This is a government that saw the greatest economic reversal Iceland has achieved, and, in fact, any state, in the latter days. It was obvious that circumstances in which to invest and attack in various areas, within the interiors of society, health care, and so forth, would rarely have been as good as today. But at that point, we were so unfortunate that we received a government that was not united in a political vision. There was no future view for the community when this government came into existence, but it was established to reach, as one of the advertisements likely found out for them, what was called a broad appeal. It was supposed to be a government that would cover the political landscape by taking one category from the left, one from the right and one group, which would be the center party, and thus the tire zone. This is such a similar attitude to that of political and political parties as sports teams competing, and support teams of the team should be content only if they receive medals, or in this case ministers, regardless of what they do in these cabinets. In effect, they could say for themselves that such a government, a government designed to change between the Ministers of Ministers and to cover the political stage in its own way, would contribute under these circumstances, of course, a special budget that included substantial expeditation without necessarily being spent. And that's the big problem with this budget bill now, actually, the last one, is that while people are putting new records into an expansion, they don't charge to change things or add them, they're running in the same system, because it's a system control. The management system is left to govern matters. Of course, a government that has no trust to change the system or to introduce some political view cannot help but add to the expenses already available. This can be very harmful. Even the current assistant has the highest priority. A health minister pointed this out in his time as a surgeon, taking into account the health system, that when a person reduces the cost of a defected system, it may even be harmful because it further increases the damage and defects and makes it more difficult to fix the system in time. This is what we're looking at right now from system management. There are financial laws that weigh the cost, but the opportunity, as crying as it is now, a respectable president, not a new one to fix these systems and get more money for the taxpayers, and for those who are expected to benefit from increased expenses, whether it is people who need to rely on pensions or health care or anything else. There is no way to see that making things better or better is by means of this massive expansion. The danger is that it will be so much more difficult for governments to twist down what system management is now spending even more money. There's not much to say about building up the law. Let's just take it for example. It referred to a big offense. The first thing we saw about that big offense was the cutoff of the current transport program. This has recently been developed in a transport program where further extensions are expected and not too much for humans to calculate the long-term effects of decision making. But this is just one example. The same is true of those whose governments hear, and some things are very sad to see. For example, in recent years, people are not going to fulfill the promises made by groups of older citizens, such as the government, the desperate, or the rest of the country. When a plan was proposed that the economic reversal I mentioned at the outset, the history followed the importance of defending the benefit, or at least Part of it, in the development of society for the future, especially in urban matters and in ensuring that the whole country will work as a whole. As a result, it is for the benefit of society if we can enable the inhabitants of the whole country and make people, wherever they live in the country, the best possible means to live their lives and to work on the valuable things the country offers. Now that I'm on one particular group or next, I can't pass, despite the plans I originally described here, to look at the big picture, to mention only the status of Icelandic farming, the basic occupation for more than 1,000 years or from the beginning of Iceland, which has rarely - never, some say - been in the greatest emergency. During the last financial work, a special contribution was made in dealing with the emergency of agriculture, especially in sheep farms. But there is no such thing now. The time has not been used to prepare a vision for the agriculture or to improve the environment of this article. And the situation is no better today than it was a year ago. Today, however, governments are determined to do just that in no way seems to respond. Of course, this sets the country's ideal and outlook for families throughout the country, even in turmoil, and it can greatly undermine urban development in large portions of the country. I must trust that this is one of the issues that will be specifically considered now between 2 and 3. Um... i.e. To meet this basic piece of work in the country. But back to the big picture. To explain the concern of me and many of us as to how this government is approaching financial work, we do well to use an example. Few examples are as vivid and clear as the plans for building a Land Hospital on the Circle Road. It may be clear to everyone, and actually it sounds like it's in people's hearts when you talk to them privately that most of them already realize that they are completely mistaken by continuing to join the old land hospital building on Ring Lane instead of using the opportunity that now exists in this unique economic situation to plan for the future and building a new national hospital in a new place, according to the needs of the 21st century. But somehow people can't get out of their bicycles, can't reevaluate things, fear maybe. in the case of this government not to agree on the issues between the two. It's just that they just keep hacking the same outfit. The irony, in fact, is another reason why this is a vivid example, that the government now sees ahead of us at this point. Action is so slow, walking much slower than was expected. As a result, less expenses are expected to be taken in the litigation panel at the 2nd district budget. .................... Well, it's not going to be a great start anyway. I don't think the hospital was completed yet, but it was supposed to be the relatively simplest part of the project and to be in use long ago. But the effect is that many of the hospital staff, office workers who are fleeing, have moved it to another location because of the noise and noise resulting from this. Of course, the patients remain in the Hospital, in the hover, in the noise, in the noise, in the noise, and in the panic. This is likely to take place over the next few years unless a new government and a new policy take place in time. So it is also vivid for both these budgets and the last ones, and indeed the approach of this government to its challenge, to respond with either new bans or new bans or new fees or to raise the existing fees. Time and again, it comes as a solution, a fee, a ban, a ban, and a fee. This takes on various forms and aspects. I'm not going to trace it all up here, but, of course, luminaries are the ups and downs, the car owners. It is now expected to increase the general and specific fuel costs. A small advantage is that both public and special fuel costs are put in place. But there is also an oil charge, and the price is to be raised. It is laid on a wide range of well - paying and special miles [U.S.] of automobile expenses. And so are all the fees that went up September 1st. In addition, new fees, such as carbon, are discovered and raised, of course, the carbon. But what are the costs? Is it about to build up the country's transport system? No, only in a relatively small way. It's going into another business. This goes on to what can be said to be the main theme of these budgets and their last ones, to expand the hatch. V.E.G. The secretary of finance does not appreciate this, but it is likely that the independent group in the government is adding its previous record to the expansion of the stall. I don't think that any government from the Independent Party and the Conspiracies provided a 2008 financial bill has increased their expenses as much as this one. And this increase in income is primarily, at least To very much, in the booth. That's when they say "big." Secretary of finance that it is not fair now because the stall is not growing as fast as economic growth, economic growth has been so high, and it does not have to worry about growing. It's not growing just as much as economic growth is concerned. But then you must wonder, if there's to be a contraction here, e.g. the next year, whether to interpret it so that the government is expanding its banks to a great degree. Clearly, the system of government, the structure of society, is being greatly improved, as it were, and may now not be the least of the more donations available to its own devices. Donations for the Ministry of Presidency, so for example, increased by 50% in one year last year. Something would have been said if it had ever happened before. At the same time, ministers have made good use of all their opportunities to recruit assistants and fill up all quotas in this regard. The cost of assistant ministers is now high on the level of being members of the council. All of this is on the same book learned, growing expenses, over and over and over in various languages, without the opportunity to improve the system. I forgot to mention it when I discussed the agricultural equipment earlier, and I said that I was hoping that this matter would be taken into account for an answer to the highest degree. The marine and agricultural minister asking about this case earlier did not just raise your optimism. I'd like to let it be known that members of Congress cannot rely on the minister of the jury to promote these reforms by the 3rd district. It is considered among members of Congress, as may be natural, though sometimes expected by the Ministry to fit such a thing, to take care to deal with the situation in Icelandic agriculture. It was an advantage to hear this before the minister's explanation, which appears to be some kind of an independent explanation here at the council. There was a livestock deal when I was in the government, and then they couldn't deal with the situation right now. The independent party seems to have completely forgotten that it has been in the government for the past few years and is living in the present, as it has sometimes accused other classes of doing. But I think it's time to point. The members of the Independence Party agree that it is not possible to speak out of the problem in such a way. A person must respond to the situation that exists today. Yes, they can take responsibility for having been a member of the government, and I will accept that criticism at the highest level. Minister that a man might have been more attentive to his predecessor in office. But the situation we are dealing with right now is very Greek and calls for drastic action. Therefore, I specifically highlight the importance of working through discussions that this basic work will be met. A respectable president. In general, there is reason to be concerned about where you take the lead and the basic picture shown in this financial bill. Expenditive bill, but at the same time, a system bill. I assume that in the latter articles on this bill, I will specifically agree with certain teams, although this was done well by the members of the council who have discussed these matters earlier in the discussion. Of course, we hope that the government and its ministers will be informed and will make some improvements. However, each member of the government offers a separate form of adjustments with the goal of approval - of course, we would prefer it rather than if the government were to make the suggestions their own, too. In any case, it is clear that it would be a gross sin if the unique opportunity now afforded by a special status of the state's funds would not be new to attack system changes and improve society for the future. And if I repeatedly mention this high financial situation, then, of course, it's also pale as expected, for there is nothing or at least Little by the government is it done to comply with the strategy that created this unique economic situation, let alone the maintenance of it, or that the financial resources that became available for continued material development and building up in society for the next year. You simply divide this money into an existing system, not thinking about fixing the system or living in favor of the future in terms of government income and social value. And it is not good to be in charge of such budgets in this situation, since conditions have been more often than not, in fact, always, more difficult to deal with than at present.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A member of the Central Party and the chairman of the Council, David Gunougson, for a fine speech. That's what I can say right here. A senator is good at describing the big picture he did in this talk. I can agree with many points presented in this talk. What I take even. It is true that there is a great increase in expenses. The future will be an assignment to examine the income institutions, to support this expansion we are looking at in the future. This is the big job. Hv. A senator spoke of this as a system administration. I think it's a welfare government. This is infrastructure. This is inevitable infrastructure. If you're really fair, it's getting better here. They're investing in the welfare, education, transportation investments, infrastructures that have been left behind. That's right. Regarding the reversal during the initial years of economic growth, we can say that it was this way in the direction of wind. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson was the prime minister, and there was an adventurous agreement with demandsors. Happily, the process of paying off debt was beginning, and we remain in that process, which has increased the scope of the inevitable structure. But we've left it behind for a long time, the transportation to make, the cumulative maintenance need, the time and other means. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament what means he can support himself in making faster progress in building up the infrastructure and transportation system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u46	A respectable president. That's a hell of an answer for the dog. A chairman of the budget board and gives me an opportunity to add just what I discussed in my talk earlier. First of all, his comments on the welfare issues and the making of additional donations to them. It is true that if you look at a list of contributions, you will see an increase in financial contributions, such as in the past few years. But what really worries me is that this money is not being spent wisely enough. Especially in this category, especially with regard to how evolution will take place in the coming years and decades, we need taxpayers and the public to earn the most money. Then it must cause you to wonder. The chairman of the budget board is as concerned as I am when I am at the highest level. Health Ministers do not seem to consider buying the service where it is the best and cheapest, but rather it is in the use of the opportunity to introduce some political policy, which may be an exception to what I was saying regarding the overall picture of what the government does. This minister is in his heart to introduce his political ideas, which have considerable costs and disadvantages for this important issue rather than to make more use of the money. But about asking why. A senator at the end of this discussion of how we can improve our view of the future and the use of money is my opinion that we need to reevaluate the practical handling of funds. This may not be a new problem. It was an experiment to something that in my opinion has not worked quite well enough. We need to take much more into account the overall effects and the long - term effects of decisions made. We're always, I feel, too trapped in just thinking about the cost and income until 12 months at a time, and that means that we don't make decisions about reasonable spending that can make them more money in the future, nor can we find the best savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm going to be so desperate to ask an open question about transport: What methods of building the transport system can be used quickly? Roadways, roads, or whatever we can see of them. Then we're going into energy exchanges in transport, and it's all changing. The oil fees for government funds will be reduced, so there will be a change for the earners. Somehow we need to see the whole thing. I know why. When it comes to doing so, a senator will ask him to be a little more specific later than an answer to how we are financing the matter. So I would like to draw out that it is in the opinion of a greater proportion of the legal committee that there are negligible changes in agricultural budgets. The largest part of it is linked to contracts like a whale. A senator knows all about it, but the greater part suggests that in preparing financial programs and the next budget, it will be considered to seek more valuable food production. Of course, this is where farming is extremely important. We totally agree over there. But I will make sure that in the last financials, we have brought special provisions for the flocks of sheep, to feed them. I'll leave this question to you. But I have time left, and I'm going to say the highest. The Minister of Health to protect me from feeling that he's already dealing with this system. It has been made clear that we want social health systems and the highest levels of health care. Minister is trying to get his hands on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u48	A respectable president. I was so happy with this opposite. The chairman of a legal committee until the end of the story was that he only damaged it. We may not have time to discuss it any more in opposition. I'm going to take advantage of the time to address his questions about transport. I'd like to reiterate, though, first that I feel like a approach. The chairman of the budget board is very good, and he hopes that he will follow it by working closely with us members of the Parliament, members of different categories, by doing these refinements, changes, and improvements, both in the budgetary and in the work that lies ahead of the committee. In particular, in terms of transport, I am absolutely open to review the most likely ways in which to finance transport workers build up, reduce accidents, etc. And make it as fast as possible. What I've always had the story done, however, and I feel that it is absolutely fundamental to me that there is not another new payment by road users without any other downs being involved. We cannot constantly invent a new currency as it is yet being done, raise these fees over and over, so we're not using the funds except maybe half in transport, and then plan to reimburse new fees. In other words, there should be some overall vision, and the overall vision does not have to be an overview, and it does not have to include an increase in the total pay of road users. In other words, this can be done in a more reasonable way without the growth of a total charge. I'm just happy about that, if anything. The head of the budget board is designed to consider all the possibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u49	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for a fine speech, extensive and clear. I especially want to thank you for drawing a particular picture that was clearer, clearer than to make up the one that has been drawn from the highest source. A government for almost a year. It was at least Answers to specific questions were raised in that fine talk. I want to ask you why. Senator Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. It has something to do with it. What I strongly want to agree with him, that this is a budget administration without a goal. I think we both share that we want a powerful welfare system, a powerful education system, a transport system, but we need to know how we use our money each time. Me and what. A member of the body is united in a matter related to health care about how we can improve the quality of life of people who have been on the list. In fact, it has come to form a waiting list, to go to the final public petition of the Ministry or its institutions. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because I think we're both, and will allow me to state that, totally opposed to a double health system: He is worrying with me by means of the ultimate road. Healthcare Ministers are to be built under twice the health system, at the highest level. Minister's leaving? Does he see that having increased freedom of choice and variety in health matters, we will, on the contrary, strengthen the well - being of public citizens in the community and contribute to a more powerful, more potent health - care system?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u50	A respectable president. We view double health - care systems as a result of today's drive. By extension of the list of waiting lists and new lists for a waiting list, there are more and more who give up, those who can afford to seek medicine elsewhere, and who pay them more for themselves. In other words, double the health system is already becoming, and this is the result of that course. This is also a very clear example, considering that we are discussing extra expenses without goals, that governments constantly need to consider what money is being paid for by the public, not just to the sum, but to what the sum buys. Clearly, there is something that when we have a health minister who is not prepared to put money in order to pay for measures in Iceland that may cost 1 million, shorten the wait, and be much easier and simpler to people than the actions the Minister seems to be prepared to pay for perhaps 3 million abroad for the same institution, have much more discomfort for the patients. That way the government won't get as much as it could for the money. On whom? Of course, taxpayers are affected, but the patients are primarily affected. I think we're most members of Congress agree that there should be a general health service in Iceland in the sense that the State is expected to be a source of high - quality health costs. However, the Kingdom must be allowed to buy the services where it is best and at the most economic cost. It is not possible and becomes more difficult as the years and decades pass, the nation grows old, and the service becomes even more complex and expensive with new technologies and new drugs. In this area, especially for taxpayers and those being helped, the funds need to be handled well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u51	V.E.G. President. I like to agree with every word I have. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson told us about the health system. We're supposed to have a powerful official system. The government must be able to search and search for the best means, on the other hand, for the taxpayers and for the patients and the public in the country. I think we share that vision. There's something else I'd like to thank the highest. - I mean, what, I'm sure he'll be the best. ...when again. A senator for directed his sight to the agriculture. I strongly agree that although a very controversial agreement was made, which I did not necessarily agree with, it was made, and it can be cooperated. That is not to say that he is unchangeable, that all it takes is a political will to do so. I think it's extremely important that we keep strengthening the agriculture, but that's one of the systems I think we need to change. We may be able to discern the changes, but I'd like to ask you which one. A senator whether he agrees with me in that we especially need to promote agricultural innovation, to promote these factors, to increase motivation, to increase the freedom of farmers in an effort to produce the different products that they do not have enough room for today. How can we give special attention to young farmers, try to promote innovation, and have incentives in the system that maintain the two factors, i.e. Young farmers and innovations in agriculture? I'm convinced that agriculture in the coming years and decades can go into a big turn, but it requires political will and a frame that encourages exactly what we want to see, i.e. innovation in agriculture, because we simply have that kind of product. I'm not afraid of competition. Me and the Icelanders will conquer them competition with our product. But then farmers must also have this space. In a sense, we see room among vegetable farmers who have developed, not only wonderful products, but also secondary products, whether they are tomatoes or what they are. [[The president calls.]] We should be able to see this in other areas, whether in sheep or elsewhere. I'm asking why. Senator on this, innovation and young farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u52	A respectable president. There's a chance that some farmers, if they've been watching this, would be the first to react when they saw anything. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir will come up here and join me in the agriculture business. I can tell you what. A senator said that I was sitting with a group of farmers, not long ago, that was soon after the budget bill came out, where the bill and the Ministry came up, and one of the farmers said: "I'm just missing Katrín's Þorgerður. That may be a little vivid to the situation that people are looking forward to right now. Of course, I'd like to share the basic concept of it at any given moment. Of course, a senator mentioned earlier, innovation, and development of the industry is extremely important and normal to place funds on it. This article, like all others, must develop to be competitive and to ensure those who practice it that are comparable to what other classes can expect. Yet, it is clear, even if only because of the way the government is being handled in other countries, that government has a special way to protect the agriculture. The article cannot be expected to compete freely with products produced in an entirely different and inferior situation by people who do not live at the same terms, often and often in factories, where there is an introduced labor force that we consider less suitable here. Of course, it is not possible to expect the Icelandic family farm and agriculture that we have had here for centuries and that we would like to compete with them. That's why we need protection so that we can continue to develop the good agriculture we enjoy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u53	A respectable president. I'm going to discuss some matters in my talk, since my members of the Central Party have considered our suggestions somewhat. On the other hand, I'm going to focus on some of the factors involved in tax issues and the end of transportation. There's something I miss quite a while back there that I can't see in the already existing cops and that's been ignored, at least I'm getting the best part of the discussion. It's a case that was recorded last year, and I took a considerable criticism as part of the focus of the left greens that seemed to shine through in the budget without the independence party getting any resistance. First there is where there was an increase in capital tax increase of 10%, i.e. about two percentage points, from 20% to 22%. In the Treaty of the Government Treaty, Left Green, Independence Class, and Proclamation Class, it says under the permission of a president: In terms of making the tax system more righteous regardless of the source of income, taxes will be increased to 22% at the beginning of the terms of the ideal period. At the same time, tax stocks will be reviewed.◯ I can say in my place that I had an understanding of the previous no time for any change, which was said to reevaluate the tax base that I understood was required for the operation to be carried out, that men would taxe real product growth, not total growth by subsidies. To emphasize that it seemed to be the same, I'm going to give a witness. Secretary of finance, in his first words on December 15, 2017, in a discussion of budgets, with the permission of a president: I'd like to say with regard to the fiscal tax that it's important that we take the stock to see and road against the tax fair... This leaves no room for interpretation. Degi later said the highest. Secretary of finance in the discussion of changing the law because of the 2018 budget, by permission of the President: It also aims to review the tax base of fiscal taxes, including interest benefits. Now's the time. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, chairman of the budget board, in the hall and has been very diligent in answering. If I go wrong, I'd appreciate it if he corrected me. But it looks like this to me. And as much as I understood that the government groups had not been able to do this in one month of last year, I do not in itself have much understanding that they have not been able to do this in a year. For as the covenant of the government of these same categories says, so it happens together. It's much easier to stretch and interpret the term "strax" as it has sometimes been done here in a chamber than at the same time in the conference. Concurrent only means at the same time. I'm very sorry to see that this is left between parts of this work and that it would be interesting to hear the viewpoint of a member of the government in this regard. Another thing I wanted to come in on, and some of my middle-class associates have come in on, is the insurance bill now proposed to lower 0.25 percentages. It hasn't changed since last year. All criteria for moving to that position are now available to the insurance bill that existed before a crash. We in the Middle East suggest that the price be dropped by 0.5 percentage points, which, as it were, twice as much as the government groups currently suggest, and then remains to catch the place which I believe would be normal for us to pursue. Of course, people look at the insurance bill today as some general tax base that is hard to see later, but they must also be ready to take the discussion about it and just say right out: we're going to tax the companies more than the thinking was with them at the time. The third factor I would like to mention is the carbon tax that now is a suggestion and was introduced last year to raise about 10% in addition to what has already become. It was increased by about 50% last year with a promise that it would be increased by 10% and 10% this year. In the meantime from the drive through this 50% increase in the previous year, the maximum has been observed. Environment Minister here made an answer and told what most people claimed to know, as it were, that governments have no idea if any progress has been made on the basis of that 50% tax increase. Of course, it is not acceptable that governments, such as those currently in power, report that certain taxes increase by 50% and because they don't seem enough, rise by 10% later and 10% again and at the same time they admit they don't know what this is like, whether this has any effect on the parts that are going to be controlled, all below the fact that this is a green tax. If the tax can promise green, you can do anything you want. This, of course, is an object that doesn't keep water, and there is no logic. There's no other way to criticize it here. Then I'm going to leave this to the end of the items that turn to taxes, and I'm going to make a quick entry into the transport of the budget. The budget bill suggests a cut to over half a billion. The suggestion that a reduction is made despite repeated declarations of the full scope of a transport plan. About a year ago, I criticized that there was no sound and image in the current transport program and that is running its course and into funding and funding. Despite being critical of the total amount spent on transportation, the process of transport was very busy with the five - year financial programme of the government. But let us say that it was only successful, making it possible for more than three billion years for the next three years and then for the year four and five of the transport program, about 7.8 billion, said the last two years. No human would think that a 0.5 billion reduction is now being sent back into the year so that 14 billion will be spent, not 13.5. What happens is that 0.5 billion fall out and the very low probability of ever coming back in. It's just cutbacks. This will make the transport program proposed by the secretary of transportation abdicate, and we're just supposed to talk about it the way it is. Hv. The chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, earlier said, if I noticed correctly, and believe I did, that I needed men and tools to complete all these assignments. Hv. A senator will correct me if I'm wrong about him. However, the performance of the workers who do the work is being accomplished today. This, of course, is merely a prerequisite to justify the dating of new ones by failing to do the work. It's nothing like that. We're cutting down funds for new projects on the road. Period. We're just supposed to call things the names that are appropriate. At the same time, it has been said that there is no problem with budgets for road or transport down by 0.5 billion, that there is so much room for improving tasks, tasks that are not being started, tasks that are different in design and environment. It's not gonna hold water either. There is enough work that can either be added to that already being done or that is increasing in the final outlets. To say that by extension, the fact that 0.5 billion are not really being taken out of the road is an outback, which, of course, is not acceptable. And when this suggestion is made, you should call things the names of the right ones. This area is cutting down about 0.5 billion for transportation, and all of it explains to ease that operation must be considered in the context of the fact that this is definitely done with a bad taste in the mouth. I'm not gonna keep my words any longer today. As I told you earlier, my middle class members have done a hell of a lot of research on our budget. I want to reiterate: I'm sorry to see these issues in between things that are leading to the promised tax reforms of last year. It is particularly surprising that the Independence Party, I allow myself to say, let it go over the edge of asking not to follow the course that I give myself to have come from the left green. I understood that the last year's discussion was that one reason why money taxes were not made to tax real estates is due to lack of time, but that excuse is out of the weather and wind right now. Now, obviously, it is either a decision not to do this or to be completely indifferent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór, Ólason, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Like what? At the beginning of his speech, a senator said that he was going to bring the tax issues and transportation issues to the first place. I'd especially like to mention two things, because he turned up an inquiry to me on the fiscal tax. You're absolutely right. A senator said that a concomitant increase from 20% to 22% would be reviewed by the tax stock. As far as I know that work is going on. I can totally understand the misunderstanding with what was discussed, to take some consideration of the merit factor, into the tax rate. I think it's just too complicated. That's what I've always felt. Then, of course, we can wonder about the level of fiscal taxes that can become and may occur before we begin to reduce the impulse to save. We can question them. There's more to it than a financial and business committee, but it can't be broken off from the budget bill that I can't answer for the income side, too. That's my opinion. I don't have any specific details on how this review is going, but it may well be the information contained in an economic and business committee. Then mentioned why. A senator of transportation, and the 500 million. I'll be on it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u55	A respectable president. There's no reason for me to add much to my case, but I wanted to come up here to let go. Chairman of the budget board again. There may be one thing I've criticized before. It is a matter of course, that the tax system seems in this government primarily to be a technicality, a process as to what an unscrupulous official might do. That's a very small sight. In that one matter and the only part of the tax business that seems to be, the so - called green taxes, they drive, although they admit that they have no idea what the effect is on by a 50% tax increase and more. So I'll just keep what I said right away a year ago, that I voted against a 50% rise in carbon money then and I'll vote against a 10% extra raise right now. I'd like to again criticize the very technical implementation of the cases in which the politics and the vision of the members of the board seem completely removed. It'll be interesting to hear some answers. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson son of Thor, chairman of the budget board, on transport matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u56	V.E.G. President. Hv. One senator noted that a transport plan and a cutdown of some 500 million did not contain water. [[Up front.]] He mentioned that I had said in a speech that it will be done in consultation with the Vega program when it began a year, the projects that could not see the end of it, which we can't claim right now. We have called for answers on that subject and have received those answers. I said, like, human beings, equipment and what. A senator mentioned that we had a lot of powerful contractors who were quite ready for the machines and the humans. That may well be so. There may also be other reasons. I can give you another example. I can name the weather. It is not known which project will be completed. But the picture is the same. We're going to raise a lot of transport expenses, and that knows why. Senator as chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee. Hv. As a result, a senator mentioned that the transport program was abject. She's got a lot of money, that's for sure. With green taxes, the goal is perfectly clear. They are part of the effort we are in on climate issues, the agreement we have signed, so the goal of the tax is very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u57	A respectable president. I want to express my satisfaction with that part of reply. The chairman of the financier's budget for transport as it is currently available will be fully funded. That means that 500 million, the half billion that next year's funding will be reduced, will be added when the planned schedule is completed in the last four years... - No, that means exactly that. [[Up front.]] If the estimated 13.5 billion for the first three years and 7.8 for the last two years, then the plan will be made up of only half a billion that is now committed in the last four years of the programme. That's perfectly obvious. There's nothing to understand. If the meaning was another, I'm back in saying, "There's no more transport plan than half a billion. Of course, that's not the big number in the picture. If it is not intended to reinvest this half billion later, it will be taken anywhere but the projects planned for the transport program, which was considered to be fully funded and will then not be solved without cutting down anywhere within the five-year framework.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u58	V.E.G. President. As we discuss budgeting before 2019 C.E., we now have a flash on economic issues. National projections estimate that inflation is increasing with already started ploughing and rising oil prices. The recent expansion of the Federal Bank emphasizes concern about increasing inflation. Contract agreements of much of the labour market run out at the end of the year and at the beginning of the next. Thus, there is great uncertainty about the development of pay in the year 2019 and later. Remuneration companies beyond the premium of budgets weigh heavily in the state's Pension bonds. It is expected that unemployment will continue to increase throughout the forecasting period with less tension in the national industry. In the budget bill, there's too much charge. The progress has not been properly prepared for the future. If there is a problem, then the government's resources will be clearly identified. Governments are unrealistic when they continue to rely on a great deal of economic growth. There is no evidence that the recent reduction in the crescent of the crescent gang, by which 103/45%, results in resolution. This decrease will help to affect the success of government funds. The factors mentioned above strongly suggest that there is not enough land production left to cover 1% or 29.7 billion. The rest is small, compared to the weight of income farms and the rest of the final economy. Oppression ends, and it seems that the government is not sufficiently aware of this. Clearly, it slows the growth of the economy. The less economic growth reduces the income of the state's funds. If economic growth is less than expected, the removal of the state's funds could easily turn to a corner. You can look funny. It is important to keep in mind this in terms of the increase in income from bill to budget and the extra charge from money to government account is rule rather than exception. For 22 consecutive years, expenses have increased from bill to bill. Thus, expenses are likely to be considerably higher than placed in the bill. The bow is excited about government expenses, so allow little room to change income resources and sharpen income balance roles directly to taxes. State spending will increase by 57 billion dollars. In 2019 or about 1 billion years. every week. According to the bill, diplomacy at each Iceland has never been greater, measured on solid prices. Public activities are one of the most highly developed countries. The budget bill assumes that the state's debt and interest payments will continue to decline. It is a pleasure to see the success that has been achieved in these matters, and many external factors have made significant difference in this regard. The share of gross domestic product is expected to be 31% at the end of the next year, with a debt ratio of up to 86% of GDP in 2011. Kingdom funds, however, are still very high, although they have reduced their debt. According to the budget bill, it will be estimated to be about 40 billion dollars. next year, which is a reduction of 26 billion. in 2011. Iceland is a high tax state, talking about taxes, on a global scale. The number of tax increases in previous years is largely unmoved. A priority should be to retract the tax increases taken after the collapse of the bank. Last year, funding taxes were raised, while promising to reimburse the tax. There's no mention of such a reexamination in the budget bill. When the capital tax was taken up, the low tax rate was short with a broad tax factor. The tax stock is still wide, but the tax rate has doubled. It is important that the State's debt declines rapidly to account for the apparent decrease in taxes on people and businesses in the country, not to expand the state field, as the government is particularly interested in. If we get back to insurance, which has actually received considerable publicity, it is important to cut down the insurance bill even more than is expected in the budget bill. 3rd smaller parts, i.e. Our man on the budget, has suggested the adjustment in reducing insurance costs by 0.5%. With the adjustment, the pay will decrease from 6.85% to 6.35%. The reduction to serve the aim of promoting a workforce balance and that next year's pay increases are less likely to result in in inflation. The decrease would have to be much more than 0.25% as suggested in the bill. It is disappointing not to assume a greater reduction in insurance. High insurance costs are worst for companies where pay and pay-or-remuneration are largely expensive. Icelandic tax returns are high in international comparison, with the second largest in the north countries behind Norway. In an effort to close the budget at that time, companies were raised after the 2008 financial collapse. However, tax changes have been taking place ever since. The government's failure to cut down the insurance fee has been severe, one of the largest financial stocks in the state. According to the bill, it will deliver about 14.4% of the next year's tax collections. High insurance costs undermine business competitiveness. The competitiveness of domestic enterprises towards foreign rivals has deteriorated over the past few years because of the international cost increase measured in foreign currency. This trend is now evident in the less valuable production of exports and enterprises on the national markets that compete with foreign companies. In spite of the reported reduction in insurance fees by 0.25%, it is calculated that the insurance bill will deliver more than 100.8 billion dollars. The next year, a trust fund that is more than it is this year. The explanation is that salary has gone up. So the government gets more in the box despite a cut-off of insurance. For the 2008 economic collapse, the bail bill was 5.34%, but it was promoted to 8.655% following it. The increase was thought of as a temporary operation to cover a huge increase in expenses due to sudden unemployment. The premise for the rise and the evidence that was then used to raise the cost no longer apply, since unemployment has been very little for a long time. On September 1, unemployment was only 2.3%. ASI has supported the importance of returning an increase in the insurance bill. According to the bill, the increase in insurance bills by 0.25% next year is negative for the state's budget of about 4 billion dollars. During the council, some conclude that a decline of 0.5% would mean an increase of $8 billion. It is not because the decrease makes companies more able to hire employees and do better with the existing ones, which, in turn, adds tax returns to the state's funds. Thus, the benefits of a careful reduction of the budget are great, and especially when difficult speech is yet to come. V.E.G. President. About the carbon money. It is important not to raise the rate of carbon, and the increase of the last budget should be greatly reduced. The tax is not balancedly leveled into the country. Increases in the carbon bill have been overcrowded. The reduction in anti-inflammatory pressure will be reduced with a reduction in fuel price. It's a new tax in Iceland. Incomes are estimated to be 5.9 billion. By 2019 it has now increased by 50% in a very short time, or since 2017. The tax revenues are not earmarked measures in climates, and only part of them flows there. At this time, the carbon price will be about 11 k. Every litre of gasoline and about 12.6 taps. on diesel. These extra charges on fuel are particularly in the country. A carbon charge is taxing urban areas beyond those of the country where the electrical carer's system is much easier in the capital area than in the country where loading stations there are much more. Nevertheless, electric car owners have complained that the infrastructure for electrical vehicles is not sufficiently satisfactory in the capital, much less in the country. In addition, more and more inhabitants of the country use fossil fuels, drive more because of distances, and buy more fuel. The main objective of carbon costs is to encourage both homes and businesses to reduce emissions by switching to clean energy. First, it is not at all possible for everyone to switch to electric automobiles, and secondly, motor vehicles are less suitable in the area of the country today. The main reason is that the size of the electric vehicle is limited, and the number of loading vehicles is not enough. In a different way, the local capital area and the population of the country's population are affected in a different way. So there is really a difference between these groups in currency. Thus, the tax suffers the worst in terms of the income and the inhabitants of the country. Energy exchange encouragement is a good price price, but it has to be in line with reality. Energy exchange for fishing companies, industry, and employment equipment is not a practical option at present. The carbon tax has a direct economic effect on the economy. Without any counterweight measures, the tax weakens the economy and reduces the competitiveness of an enterprise. Ideas are noble, but governments must give careful consideration to the purpose, basis, and goal of the tax system, especially who are taxing and who are not taxing. The aim of the expenditure is to reduce emissions without diluting the competitiveness of the economy and should be the same in this country. Thus, in other countries other taxes have been reduced to the price but are given by other taxes. Iceland is, for example. One State in Europe where the fishing fleet has no access to or is fortified with fuel taxes. It reduces competitiveness even more. No initiatives are being proclaimed on the bills related to the budget that meet the country's settlements for the price. In addition, it is not apparent that environmental activity will not be involved or that other taxes will be reduced to counterweight. Change in carbon charge is a tax increase dressed in green tax. It would be reasonable to reduce the cost of other environmental factors. What further reduces competitiveness is that non-employment tax obligations in this country are the exception of the carbon tax. In this way, foreign ships that take oil in this country do not have to pay the price, but in some cases they are fishing in the same way that they do. No foreign ships, fishing ships, cruise ships, or shipping ships pay carbon costs to take in this country, and no carbon costs are paid for by local air fuel in the state's funds. The amount of carbon is a tax that variously affects the sector's sector, and it is reasonable that the overall policy in the case should be taken before continuing. V.E.G. President. Then I'll go to the agriculture. The government has been particularly uninterested in Icelandic agriculture, so to speak. It has not provided the agriculture for which it is necessary, and it deserves it. Each member of the government has adopted conclusions on the importance of agriculture. The Tolla Convention on the European Union is an extremely adverse agriculture. The Tolla Convention is to present the same potential for farmers in Europe as it is given to the European Union. That's not what the deal is. While it is necessary to cancel the contract because of broken predecessors, Britain's resignation from the EU makes our largest and best market area disappear from the contract in the next year. The EU will be again negotiated on agrienvironmental products. In order to reduce the negative impact of the Convention on Icelandic agricultural production, counter measures are needed. The budget does not contain any budget for counter-importation operations, no support for farmers to face a significant increase in competition from the European Union, and the imbalance between parties, Iceland. The situation of sheep farmers and fur farmers is difficult and urgent that the State's authority meet the challenge. Unfortunately, the government has no vision for these articles and is reflected in the financial bill, but there are no documents intended to meet the problem. Healthcare issues. The middle class has repeatedly pointed out that the construction of the new national hospital on Ring Road is unwise for many reasons. The party has stressed that there will be a new and impressive national hospital built in a new place, a professional, independent, local analysis for a new hospital, and that the party has delivered its interpretation proposal. Increased contributions to the health - care system seem to be available to the Land Hospital, which has received additional funds each year since 2013. Nevertheless, this year's legal management of the Land Hospital is about 1.6 billion. and heading toward a similar angle next year. Thus, a collection of more than 3 billion will be. The land hospital has persistent design problems, especially in the case of nurses. This results in considerable cost of extra work. The health - care problem is one of the biggest emergency problems the medical services face, and it is urgent that all ways to increase the number of nurses are sought. The importance of this project will be increased. The list of waitings for nurses for the elderly has been raised, and a surgeon's office has expressed deep concern for the situation. The Central Party proposes a change in the budget for this category of special funding up to 270 million to solve the emergency problem. The nursing home plays an important and growing role in the nation's health systems. Lack of nursing homes means that older ones will be associated in medical facilities. The premise of solution to that problem is that nursing homes will become realistic. A major attendance at the construction of a nursing home for which the government is proclaiming in the Treaty is a miscommunication as it is seen on the network of nurses in the country for which the government is responsible. Many nursing homes have been run by many who have been expelled for a long time. Depending on the demands of the nursing homes, it is not always easy for them to work with the income they are marketed for per day's expenses. The bill includes operating on the current business of almost every nursing home in the country. This also includes the cutting off of day-to-day workers in the country. The contract for nursing and residence expires throughout the New Year's Eve and talks about the extension of the contract very slowly, very slowly. How governments approach this important issue is a concern. More funding for the ministry must be assured and raised day - to - day expenses provided for the services to be served. In the autumn, fishing bill, which was recommended by a sea leader, was taken from a professional committee to a 2nd. today. In fact, it's a little better than the bill that became law in 2012 than it ran into spring. This does not change the fact that the bill is defective. It's true to remind the World Congress that after a huge turn of events here at the General Parliament this spring, it was the bill extended to next New Year's Eve because it ran out in spring. However, it should be noted that there are some benefits in this bill, e.g. that the calculation is closer to time and the fish industry is taken out of parentheses. There is also improvement in the fact that this work has been added to the government tax manager's level. What has not changed is that once each class, as different as it is, it is all swept into one number for each species of fish. As a result, the price holder is the same in all fishing groups. If we are not going to see the development of the land moving on, we need to change these calculations to the point where all the fishing groups can be enjoyed. When the current legal process was established in 2012, it was clear that small and medium - sized structures had a major problem. At that time, a discount, called a vacation market, was shocked. A discount was also due to a debt founded on purchases in financial departments. It was a bandage on the wound that was sufficient for many small and medium-sized surgery to prevent bleeding. On August 31, 2017, this debt was released, and on September 1 of that year, hunting costs increased by more than 100%, on e.g. for example, a cod of about 106% and an exaggerating of 127%. This was because of the good conduct of the 2015 article. This may well illustrate how this has been. Everyone I know, and I know a lot of people, and I want to pay the same price, and the same wills, and have called after a portion of the pay goes to their own settlements for building wood. The decrease in the number of outputs is high. In 2014, 520 exposés were combined in the labor markets and hook forces. This year 390 projects have a share. This is a five-year reduction in 130 productions. It may be that in 2005, there were 975 crops. During the next few years, there may be an even greater reduction in production if this bill is legal. I'm not gonna have any more words on the hunting bill for this time. It is time for this to happen. ... and hopefully some work can be done to meet small and medium-sized structures, at least. Perhaps it is true that the change in the production of more part of the job committee is one change in my mind that was somewhat anticipated. It is about the rise of a so - called vacation market. It'll be 40% off the first 6 million. So, there's gonna be a discount. But it can never exceed 2.5 million. The increase compared to the bill as submitted first is about 900,000. That is not an enormous change. This may be the smallest of the designs, but the above - the types we call medium - I don't know exactly where the line is, we can talk about making making some 3,000-5,000 tons of food still sitting in the soup, if we can say so. I and many others are deeply concerned about the future of that class. There's been an extreme contraction of these developments. These are usually very deep - seated family companies, and they have been the most inhabited by their communities, along with many other factors. You really don't see a lot of future for yourself, considering that hunting bill is really not a big change in the foundation, it's just a little fixing. That's no basic change from the previous bill. I'm gonna make this a good one for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u59	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, in his earlier speech, asserted that making donations to practically all nursing homes - if we can put it that way, he was likely referring to daily expenses and other items - would drop from year to year. I'm a little surprised at this statement, I have to say it, especially when considering that one of the main changes is going on. The budget is going to raise contributions to the daily budgets or nursing homes by 276 million; I think I'm going to make a fair difference, and that will raise contributions totally over 4.5% between the years. It's really hard for me to see, even if we're price-corrected and other things, that it's right, and I want to go inside. A senator depending on how he personally manages to reach that conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u60	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the answer, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur! These statements, as he calls it, are the numbers I received from visitors who visited us at a council meeting from a member I can't quite remember what's called, a member of a welfare agency... [[Up front.]] They expressed great concern that treaties had expired, and they would not be bright ahead of them. So I don't have this by my own head but by my information, so they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u61	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. Thus, I think it is quite important for members of the Parliament to apply the facts of the day. Although I agree completely with the senator that it is very important for the council to receive information and messages from the community, I believe it is still the duty of the council and members of Congress to handle the matter properly. It is serious to say from the General's symposium that contributions are being made to nursing homes from year to year when the trial is very different. There's a very serious message going on in the community, and we're not supposed to do that, that's my opinion. There is now, and I have said so before in the symposium under this discussion, that at the beginning of a review of the nursing network. That is what we agree with the senator, and that is what we need to do. The government has to deal well with the health services it buys, with the companies it negotiates, including the companies that are in the same organisation as the other. A senator mentioned. It'll set us free. Congress officials do not avoid the obligation to swallow up any information or expectation that cones can be added to the budget that clearly do not exist, if you plan for the change and the bill that is available.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u62	V.E.G. President. So when things are calculated, they are calculated by some basis. I agree with the senator that numbers are to be handled correctly, as you can. The fact is, there is a lot of waiting, as the senator came in, and there is a real problem in the particular case mentioned earlier. I don't craw much in my knees, nor do I run cold water between skin and skin. A senator would say to me that a serious matter is not taking correct numbers. I just want to point out that the situation is serious. I don't know if the numbers are correct coming from the other side either. There must be some basis for that too, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u63	Madam President. Today, November 20, is the International Day of Children. Therefore, I feel that it is appropriate to give this talk on the budget for 2019 C.E. to highlight the rights of children, the freedom of expression of the children, and their right to participate, and what governments can and should do to strengthen the position of children. Today, the Youth Council of UNICEF distributes practical advice to those in authority. This counsel was made by the youth council, since their experience in dealing with those in authority is sometimes negative, they wanted to give advice on how to communicate with young people. I want to read them up here because I think it would be good for us to listen to this counsel and to have more discussions with a young person about their issues. The first advice is: Offer meetings at appropriate time for young people, such as at school. If a school meeting is held at school, the school of the young person who is being invited to the meeting needs to be verified. Councilmen are open to young people's ideas and opinions. The meeting program anticipates discussions on the issues of the meeting. Councilmen should always be polite and listen to the youth of the meeting and avoid interrupting. It is important for those in charge to give clear answers to youths, avoid repetition, and take advantage of the information young people give each time. It is important to give young people information about what is done to the meeting results, and do not say that they intend to ask for a particular group again and then do not accept it. Talk to youths as peers, not to adults, and to the young men and women. Thank you for this, the Young People's Council of UNICEF. Madam President. In the United States, we have proposed a synoptic decree that I made during the days and is now working on the welfare committee, to conclude that the Council decided to assign governments to set up time and financed a four-year strategy for the 2019,2022 to strengthen the status of children, young people and their families here on land. Actions include: the right of children, as defined in the United Nations Children's Covenant. It is suggested that a third optional book with the children's covenant will be established in this country in 2019 C.E. that prior to a campaign in which governments and judges receive instruction on child - rearing requirements. Appropriate follow-up measures, including Necessary adjustment and a child-friendly presentation and introduction to the implementation of the book here in the country will be available. Synchronization and follow-up of action in behalf of children and children's families on the scene of the Board of Directors and Company is required and all are joint in the management of children. They need to respect the recommendations made by the United Nations Childhood Committee on the implementation of the Convention in Iceland, and to our proposal in the United Nations it was recommended, as well as a recommendation to the Council of Ministers on the rights of children and child-friendly social services to children and their families, as well as the European Council on protecting children from sexual abuse and sexual abuse. Children's manager published a report in 2017 on the main concerns, and more reports from the Children's Agents were also taken into account in the contract. We need to deal with these worldwide releases and concerns in order to trust the child's position and strengthen parents in their role as parents. In the next four years, if the plan is to succeed, the budget needs to be set up. There are some things the State cannot control. Therefore, it is important to establish the work ethic of the state, the workforce, and the local community to develop suggestions on how to coordinate work and family responsibilities and service to children's families. In particular, consider how to ensure that companies set up family policy, cut work hours, and make worktime more flexible and how to ensure that parents can better care for their children, e.g. because of their illness or disability. It is not enough to talk about the future of our children, and we want all children to enjoy security and material benefits. We must see to it by means of planning and funding, enough human resources, and needed evidence that goals will be achieved. One of our suggestions is that a child's family will be improved, including a child's family. with increasing child improvement and standards ensuring that more families get children's benefits. A representative of the United States body of the budget pointed out how many children live in an unacceptable situation in Iceland, but it is estimated that up to 6,000 children suffer a material shortage in our rich society. Incomes, both wages and social improvements, are the main factors in children's poor health. However, problems with low wages, as well as those with moderate income, may generally be achieved by improving child support and child support. This is recognized in a number of analyses from abroad and has been successfully applied in countries we would like to compare ourselves with. Even so, during the past few years, the child - welfare system has collapsed, although it is evident that child - welfare is a very good way to help young families. The government is now taking the positive step of raising the criteria to the minimum. However, only a few months have passed by the government groups in the Union's proposal for this change, while the administrative part wants to increase among intermediate groups. The system as a whole is efficient, and thousands of children's families have fallen out of it for the past five years and the benefits have been reduced to real value. After the rise, child - welfare expenses are similar to those in 2013, five years ago. A new level of decline results in a decrease in parent's income of more than 458,000 dollars. per month. In this context, the lower quarter of the total wage was 496,000. the year in 2017, as ASI indicates. The divorce rate of a couple's children will be completely reduced to monthly incomes of some 625,000. The parent dose should be adjusted. In 2017, the median total wage was about 68,000, meaning that a couple who make money around median get no children's benefits. We in the United States want to change this and aim for the status of the children to be balanced with the others who do not share children. In order to take steps in that direction, we make adjustments in the suggestion that child reform will be increased by 2 billion dollars. In 2019, other family members receive payment from their children. In a timed and financed plan for the next four years, the child - saving system needs to be strengthened, but it also meets high school expenses for purchases and wholesome lunches. We do not make adjustments in this regard now, but that is a goal to follow. The bill on the greater role of children's agents is a positive step that the government makes it very important for governments to collect and use information on children's interests and services in order to ensure the right and well - being of all children. The data will be apparent based on age, gender, habitat and social background. That's important. Children's agent will get this part if the bill is approved. In order to enable a child's agent to fulfill this vital role properly, it must be evaluated. I don't think there's enough money to be expected, and we senators, who are expected to play an important role, must follow that it will be okay so that a child's agent can perform this vital role. To strengthen the position of children and children from the present age, such as extending the birthworm to 12 months, providing advice to parents, sharing with children about the contract and rights of children, and providing new children with parents who are in custody, who live in violence, or who seek international protection, as well as providing child - appointed family counsel. None of this will be done unless the government acknowledges that the interests of children need to be improved and raised above the production of a financial projector. There is a greater need. Prevention and health care, mental - health measures in children and young people with mental disorders, developmental abnormalities, and long - suffering children, behavioral and drug problems, measures to protect children and young people from domestic violence and sexual abuse and for the benefit of immigrants'children. A complete schedule, time set, and finance must be established. This is not done in the budget bill before 2019. In fact, such a plan is not expected in the government budget since spring. That plan will be revised next year, and I hope that it will be done on this change and that it will be done. U.S. Marshals and the Supreme Court. The government will listen to the surveillance committee with the Children's Convention and the recommendations and indications that have been given in the implementation of the Children's Convention in Iceland. President. It is unmistakably true that Iceland has housing problems, and it suffers especially on young children's families. In an unsecured tenet, families will disappear, and even farm members and children will wander between schools with potential difficulties in getting to a new place and in new schools. It's got to stop. This requires that state and community campaigns be agreed with unions. A representative of the United States Group on a financial committee points out in his panel that despite a statement by the labor movement and the sector that housing matters are the key to an agreement in future labour agreements, the overall budget for housing is almost unchanged between years. This is serious, Mr. President. In 2019 it will be only 3.4 billion, which is less than it was supposed to have in 2018 when it was due to be 4 billion. The decrease is, to say, 15% between years. Overall, housing support through the growth system has reduced the absolute value by more than 70% since 2013 and by more than 19,000 between 2013 and 2017. This has been the same since 2010, but a 5% increase is expected according to the bill. In contrast, since 2010 the prices have increased by 25% and the pay number has increased by more than 76%. As a result, the system supports fewer and fewer homes. Young people who have little money in their homes now receive little or no support through the growth system. In a rented market, some 50,000 people live, with large numbers of income and young people. Most tenants are in a worse position to buy property and to be trapped in a poverty trap in an unstable tenet. And there is no way to increase the financial benefits of rising prices and rents, thus reducing the support of tenants, the number at the worst of interest in housing. BSRB parks, e.g. emphasise that housing support will be equal regardless of farm practices so that tenants will be given comparable support in the form of housing reforms and interest reforms to owners, but it does not listen. The United States has issued an arrangement for housing action, as well as for young people's problems in order to obtain housing and how to improve the safety of tenants. The proposal is now for a discussion on a welfare committee. In view of the seriousness of the situation and in the light of the demands of union unions, I have reason to believe that this proposal will be given a positive consideration and that there will be payment at the Senate Hall. If not, and if so. member statesmen are not confident that they will accept practical suggestions from the government stand, then at least They make the suggestions that they feel will work well. The cohesion also proposes a modification proposal to the budget for an increase of 2 billion dollars. and that urban planning will be increased by 2 billion dollars. in 2019 C.E. There's a new proposal for the budget bill. President. This is a very serious situation in the local health institutions. The financial bill does not meet that challenge or that of changing the options of much of it. Consider, for example, 130 million. K. was missing for the Western Institute of Health. It is similar with the National, Northern, and Eastern Institutes of Health. And the joint resolution of all health institutions states that in the second consecutive year, there will be an increase to health care at the National Institutes of Health. Let us consider the situation of the Southnesian Institute for Health and Health. I'm gonna mention these institutions because they're in my district and I know their status. During recent years, a large number of South American inhabitants have been making changes. The area was 2,680 on July 1. By the end of 2018, the population of people is estimated to be about 27,600, and the proportion of people from abroad is estimated to be between 20 and 25%. There seems to be no stopping this development. The population's population is increasing. The number of years between January 1, 2016, and the end of 2018, will be about 22%, about 7% per year. The increase in population between January 1, 2013, and the end of 2018, is estimated to be more than 30% in five years. This population growth is unique to health problems in the country and well beyond other areas. This special situation is not failed. And this society of some 28,000 people lives in a health service where employees who truly want to do everything are tired because of stress, housing, and the financial resources to buy equipment are far from sufficient. This is so serious that senators must take care of matters, for the government seems unable to do so or to direct its own efforts elsewhere. Southnesja's Institute of Health suggests that funding needs to increase by 280 million. K. to meet the need. If unchanged activity is to be guaranteed, then $219 billion is needed. K. In addition, the Agency may be expected to travel 58 million. K. ... fromtheapproach of 2018. Consider the National Institute of Health. According to a review of the Federal Republic of Iceland, the lack of funds for the management of the Agency is high and sustained. Since the cohesion of the South countries, growth in the work was unprecedented and increased by tens of percent each year. The debt of former institutions has been solved, but there is light in the business. The Agency's directors pointed out at the end of 2017 that there could be no legal and annual expansion without additional funding. The total budget for the Southern Institute of Health in 2018 is only 1.1% higher than the final budget in 2017, which is far below the prices and pay raise between years. So if we just look at this position, it's a cut. I know why. When we have pointed out cuts between years of age, diplomats have reacted harshly, which is ice cold and real. This needs to be treated, and we have an opportunity to do so. The estimated ran - out body at the Southland National Institute of Health in 2018 is about 200 million. K. The European Commission feels that it is not possible to bring up the 2019 management programme unless additional donations for basic services are made to maintain the loss of legal projects. Nurses are subsidized by the whole health system. In HSU, the funding of nursing is 20% below the actual need and elsewhere. There is still a need to add funds to the HSU clinic for the inexplicable medical status of physicians and nurses that have had to be added due to population growth and increase in local service. Then there has been an increase in the number of hospital transports, and the total increase has not been fully financed. The surgeon general's assessment of December 15th. on health status of the HSU field, there is a direct indication for the Ministry of Health to decide to have emergency departments at Selephoss and to increase their status. In 2018, it may be estimated that over 14,000 people are affected by an accident or a serious illness. It is estimated that the Ministry will take this into account in financial matters. Investors have not paid off to the emergency department at Selephoss, and they are financed by other businesses. More than 280 million. K. is missing in 2019 due to design of a legal basis for health care and medical care in the South. This situation is unacceptable, Mr. President. President. In the United States, we make adjustments to the budget project to meet this problem and suggest 800 million. K. In an effort to cope with the crisis, an additional health - care operation will be started in the country. Mr. President. The union suggests the 17 - team changes and endeavors to improve the major failings of the budget bill. However, it is obvious that if we could write a budget from the ground, it would look quite different from this bill. They're asking about financing. All the changes we make are funded. In fact, we stress that the state's funds will produce good rest, so if it requires more effort, we will keep on the rest, not allow the cripples or those who need health care. The government wants to take the fishing fees from over 11 billion dollars. of 7. In the United States, we do not feel that this dresser repair is needed for a good outcome but, for example, for some reason, for the sake of the government's hearing better than the unions and health institutions in the country. Their complaining is rapid and effective, and their fishing costs are lowered by billions. A representative of the United States Group on the budget board, huh? paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, has pointed out that the cost of hunting next year is similar to the government's proposal to collect from the smokers of this country through the tobacco tax. This is now the product of the resource, of direct income from the resource. This is where it takes place and it's still down. We'd like to raise the capital tax that the richest paying and put on income-related capital taxes. When the wealth tax was last collected, 10 billion were in the government budget for it. In the United States, we expect a different wealth tax and $33/4 billion by our implementation. By excluding the combined use of tax steps that actually work against the equality of the sexes and that is largely new to the highest income, the state's budget is about 3 billion. Many projects have been pointed out, including Things that have been done at the Ministry of Economic Affairs in a sensory budget, that this is an unwanted situation and it works against, as I said before, equality, and the sex status of the labour market. It's about to happen to this indication and take this off. We expect increased income from tourists, but the opportunity for earning money there has eluded us year after year because of government fear of decision, while pressures on the infrastructure are immensely caused by tourists. And now someone will say, like, one of them. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The local secretary of finance that day, in a talker's office, who was shocked to ask whether the Conspiracy was really suggesting that they contribute some cost to foreign tourists when their growth is now less than recent. A few days earlier, it had the highest power. The prime minister here said in the same talk that the expenses of foreign tourists should be paid, and the visits were there for a talk at the highest level. Government. Now I don't know if it's going to be the best. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance that'll be better on this case than at least is not expected in the 2019's on the budget that there will be some direct income from foreign tourists. We'd like to reimburse a special sugar tax and that the billions of people involved in it would escape the prevention and treatment of young people in trouble. In many areas, sugar taxes have been placed on, and more often, not directly related to, some tasks. In Britain, e.g. is a sugar tax collected, and the amount goes to basic schools so that children can be fed better. That is an excellent idea, but we look ahead to a great deal of problems and inadequacy when youths who are dealing with drug problems need help. That is why we believe that this will go directly into such measures. We place high emphasis on tax control, especially on tax and social subheadings at work. It is estimated that about 100 billion people are subject to taxes every year. This does not include what is expected to be hidden in taxes. We assume that with more intensive monitoring, the next year's income will increase by 7 billion, and this is done with caution. To cope with climate problems, we need to reduce carbon emissions further to have a chance that Iceland will achieve its targets, so we need to raise the carbon price more than the government expects. These suggestions I've listed here are sufficient for all of our changes, but we could undo the idea that the bank tax will be removed. The government wants to lower the tax on the bank by 7 billion, and it's not dangerous, considering the pay made by banks over the past year that it will be 5 billion dollars. ... biggerthanthe fiscal bill is expected. But these are incomes that can only be used to keep the rest more and that don't need to be spent right away. Mr. President. The Þorkell Sigurlaugsson wrote an article at the Nite Owl during the days on the results of a group of work he was directing, which identified the scope and impact of tax fraud on Icelandic national society and how to reduce the black economy. The results were submitted mid-1917. It shows that in recent decades the extent of tax fraud has been estimated from 3◯7% of GDP and the total government loss has been close to 10% throughout the period. Based on recent observations, this figure may be more than 4% of land production, or more than 100 billion dollars. As I said earlier than in 2016. At that rate, the damage to society is improved by the premeditated income in connection with a population estimated at 16 billion dollars. and 42 billion as a result of neglect of resource taxes over a six-year period since 2009-2014. A total of this is 58 billion bucks. over a period of nine years for domestic property. This is a large amount, Mr. President, and we need to tighten our surveillance and strengthen our surveillance agencies to do our job. Þorkell their article, the tax fraud is introduced to the following categories: Exceptions from the value of tax taxes by borrowing taxable taxes, or by reimbursement tax returns, including profitless bills, or innuendo on tax pay. The results of the national taxpayer's work group are that the magnitude of the cutoff on the merit tax grew by 12.9% in 2010 ◯2013. Then there's a cut from paying income tax on employees' wages and pay related fees. In addition, there is a lack of income tax from the sector due to the costs of the estimated income and the underestimated or other public fees, such as tax from revenues or tax collections in connection with income from ethnic areas. Tax fraud of this type is believed to be the largest in construction and contractor industry, tourism, as well as in other personal services. The increased activity of tourism has resulted in tax losses, including tax collections, and aggravities. Because of the scope of homemaking, participation in foreign workers, and monopolies in this article. The success is, says Þorkell, to improve information sharing, control and prevention measures against tax fraud, thus preventing tax collections, and thus to use. Information technology, reduced use of cash and military legislation, and the border to cope with the problem. It is very important, Mr. President, that we strengthen our surveillance agencies. There is now a discussion on the Economic and Business Committee the bill on money thefts and counterterrorism initiatives. There, there is an increasing role for the head of the state tax, with a wide range of data processing. I am a memorable paragraph in the report on Iceland's property in a foreign land where it is specifically stated that we have been severely criticized for our efforts against money fraud. There the authors say that governments do not seem to realize that when complex data is processed, human resources must be taken into account, but they will do well in other hands if they are done well. Mr. President. Time is running fast, and I want to look back and see the last five years. Since 2013 when we closed the budget, there was an opportunity to build up the infrastructure that we had had to neglect in our most difficult times at the time of the election, in 2009 -2013, but we saw by a program that we were able to provide money for the parts of the country, in the construction of the road system, in the health system, in the school system, and so on. The government that accepted it did not feel the same way. She reduced taxes that caused her infrastructure to remain starving. These are indeed the years of the lost opportunities when the Independence Party and the forwarding party were here in power, reduced taxes, and the most available to those who had the most, sent out 80 billion in so - called corrections, which in the least part fell to those who had enough to do so, for they said: "We don't have to help those who have a minimum, that's what the left administration did. Now it's time for the others. These were very high amounts of money that we could certainly have used for something else, but these are lost opportunities, and that does not mean crying for it. As a result, we face all the problems we now face. It's a natural requirement from everyone to strengthen the infrastructure, and we all wanted it, all politicians involved in a campaign to talk about building up the infrastructure. But in the situation we are now, it is impossible to do so in a handsome way without earning money. That's the way it is. And there's a lot of bucks out here. All we have to do is divide them in other ways. That's what we have to do. We need to divide them in another way. As information flows in here into a hall that shows that the richest have the most wealthiest part, the richest 5% as much as the other 95%, knowing all the analysis that tells us that when inequities grow, there's more conflict in society, less trust, and more prosperity, why don't we turn this into a theory? It's just not possible. It's seen many things. You can't expect to have a welfare like the left green, and the United States has come to agree that there's a need to be increased here and then have right economic control. It doesn't work together because it costs money. At the beginning of my talk, I spoke of the need to reorganize children. It costs money. We don't grab them out of the rock, but we can do it with a more righteous tax system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u64	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. G. ItHarðardóttir a very good speech. Hv. A senator was very organized into Conspiracies and what is involved in the financial bill, end of course. A senator with a lot of experience in both a financial committee and a former superior. Secretary of finance. She began in a most appropriate way on the basis of a worldwide day of children. I thought it was fitting. We all have messages on our tables, which are pretty fun, from children at Flata school. My message is that all children have the right to go to school, and children have a right to their name and address. I love to come to work and get this on the table and to celebrate. A senator started the talk, and I decided to take it with me. I can agree with all that. A senator said about the children, even though I may not necessarily sign them terms as well as budgets. A senator went over, and the Conspiracy has indeed been organized. I agree that we should always consider supporting children and children. I'd like to, though, to be on the bill we're discussing is raising child benefits. The most needed families, less income, are indeed being tried and uplifted to 600,000 times. per month. I don't have a question in myself. The senator last year's answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for giving me a chance to come back up. It was May, rather than April, that a report from the Norwegian Ministerial Committee was published that said that there was an inequities in growing in the North countries. The states of the North are at the top of every list of where to live, where is the greatest equal and equal opportunities and equality and all that, and we don't want to go down on that list. Therefore, according to local authorities, they found that rich people are getting richer and poorer in the North. This message was sent to the government that if they wanted to reverse this trend, they would need to expand their child - welfare and have welfare services as cheap as possible, preferably free of charge. Also, the development of the reform systems and the transfer systems should be limited to income development, because if it's not done and we've seen it happen here, it's always less important to the development. So the Norwegian experts who took it together said that the reason for the gap was that the gap was even closer. That's where and the biggest reason for the improvement in the transfers was because they didn't have to pay for it. I think we should take a look at this. We're always adding just here and just making things better, but we need a system that matters for the advancement of the family. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u66	V.E.G. President. Thank you. This is a conversation by a senator. That's exactly what I was going to do. A senator went over the talk, i.e. Our housing issues and how we can apply ourselves to housing support and the inequities that are an international problem, and we can manifest ourselves primarily in the balance of property. It is true that one member of the body mentioned that he has become more involved. I understand the experts' opinion that we should focus on the money in this, because it's time to deal with the problem of property, those people who have grown rich falling under this 1% don't necessarily have salary income like most of us. We know that this is a threat, a global threat to prosperity, and we need to deal with it. I don't have the simple answers. I think when we talk about benefits, we should look at them on the basis of our income. But, for example, Once we've had the housing support, we've checked the net, we're considering growth improvements, etc. As a matter of fact, I don't think growth is necessarily the most suitable support system. I think we should focus on other support systems. But I was going to leave some questions for what? A senator. The first question involves how we deal with this problem of property, and the second is why the sugar tax, as a matter of course, is due. A senator came in, failed very badly the last time we tried.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u67	Mr. President. We don't like to put on property taxes because we're taking taxes twice on the same money, and we'd rather take taxes from the money that we have made. But to cope with this problem as easily as possible. A senator went over so well, we have to use property taxes. But we just have to do it in some reasonable way. We can make it a mixture of income and property. We can dismiss people's homes, but we can create a system, as it has been done in many places, in an effort to balance the game. Because it's a global problem, it doesn't make it easier for us to deal with it here at home, and we can do it if we just cross it. We're talking about all the richest people. Then about the sugar tax. He wasn't on for two years, 20 months, if I remember correctly. I remember when we were discussing this here, that's when I said the highest. Secretary of finance that he wasn't tall enough, that wouldn't have been enough motivation. But he's relieved of changing the valuable tax system and the remuneration on it, and I think he's been taken off to lower the price. I think and allow myself to claim that there would not have been a deeper depression behind it for the government to take off the sugar tax, but this one, it had to get the price down, and that was done by taking off the sugar tax. [[The president calls.]] It's supposed to work really well. He may have to be tall for that to happen. [[The president calls.]] But sugar is really on the list, and we need to reduce the consumption of sugar.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For excellent talk and extensive speech, a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter She spoke extensively about welfare matters and health care and child - care issues. That's fine. These are matters that we should do more than just discuss in the Assembly Hall. I think we're gonna do what. In principle, a senator agrees that this is the area of affairs that is of utmost importance that society talks about and agrees with one another in what way it is looked at. The Senator specifically discussed contributions to health institutions, including correspondent in the South and South. You're right next door. A member of that area has become a significant population increase, but this is also true that, despite all of which, donations to these health institutions have increased, although they have increased in varying degrees, to Southnesia by 14% in two years and to southern countries by 7◯8% in two years. It should have been so much said that this should have gone faster and more faster, and so on, but we have started on a journey to strengthen the foundation of our health centers, not just in the capital area. There is an enormous increase in national health care, and this is of great importance in developing health - care institutions in the senator's district. I think we're moving slowly toward strengthening the foundations of these institutions, and I think that's where the senator and I can agree that the project will continue. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it's still being added.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u69	Mr. President. I liked the words as easily as possible. A senator used, gradually, because it's just way too small. Prices are rising, and the pay is rising, so you have to be there. But it must also be faced with a number of those who need the ministry. When growth is rapid, as in recent times in the South, it must be handled. Then you can't just put the ruler on some level and say, "Now everybody's raising this thing, and everyone's doing it like that. ' The situation must be taken into account. This is a situation that will be handled. We're gonna go for a second. Today, a senator had a talk about my experience in that service. I'm not going to go over it here, but it can't be offered to the Southnes. It's almost 28,000 people. First, you can't invite the residents to that service or the staff, which is truly, as I said before, of will and wish to do well. It's getting so tired. The house - to - house work is needed, and the equipment is tired. I hope to the highest. Secretary of health. I'll see to her. I know what she can do. I hope she now looks to Southnes and growing areas such as Southland, which also have increased tourist growth. I hope she does now, and I trust it will happen between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u70	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. When I gradually said this, I did not mean that it was any chicken fat. In spite of all the increase in donations to the South American Health Organization, I am sure that, for the reasons the senator traced, they are increasing faster than many other institutions in the country. And it's like I said before, it's possible to debate how fast this is going to happen and whether to react faster. Me, like a whisk. Senator, trust the highest. A health minister for good works in this regard. In the second answer, I'd like to talk to you for a second. A senator for the nursing home and the growth in business development, which is in the process of making adjustments. The budget board. It is adding something, not to any dramatic amount, but to about 100,000 dollars. each year, each space at a national level. We can debate how much or little it is, but it is also stated in the Treaty that the basis of these households should be reviewed. Despite this and despite what it was like. A senator, however, said that more than enough was needed, aims to open up 200 new homes in the capital area next year. Of these, 160 are added to the existing amount of space and some 200 new boxes are expected on national levels in the next two years. It's all the projects that have started. So, considering that today there are over 400 people in waiting lists, I think the senator can agree that this is quite a challenge, although, of course, it's unannounced that people wait a long time for a self - righteous service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can agree with the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u71	Mr. President. Yes, it is difficult and difficult to wait for a place in the nursing room. It's terrible when you just have to move people between parts of the country. During the campaign, I met a woman who lives in Mosfellsville, which was in Vicodin, the Valley of Myrr. I hope she's home now. She said, I guess I'm not sick enough to get a transfer. I felt for her. Of course, something has to be done to solve a problem. Hv. One senator noted that nursing is being built and that my God is good if we were not doing anything, the problem would be even bigger. Wait a minute. A senator thinking with me when the big river trails get into her old age, that's not far away. How, then, will we respond? As we now look forward to that problem, it may be better to have it equally than to have it fixed on the end when the big river walkes into the system. However, this does not change the fact that many nursing homes have significant problems, many of them. Somehow it needs to be treated, and it's not done, so it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u72	Mr. President. During my first speech, I reviewed a survey conducted by the Pirata Congregation to make a decision as to how the people of the country want to set their priorities on government matters. Do they want to put first some taxes? Do they want to put priority on raising the cost of health care that is clearly at the top of all categories, no matter where people live in the country? It is true of people no matter what they earn, what education they have, and what sex they have. I refer to that talk about the information for those who are interested in examining all the big and interesting numbers in this regard. Now I'd like to go directly to the government contract itself, which is what the leadership of the members of the government, the Independence Party, the forward party, and the left green, took into their councils, their central governments, and their backlands. That was the basis for accepting a government contract. This was the basis for the members of Congress who stood by them to agree to support the government and to agree to support the budget that the government, the government, entered the council. What does this covenant say, and how well is it fulfilled? We have to look at it so that the opposing parties are justified that the people whom they chose at the council that came together and adopted this government covenant fulfill the covenant. The voters of the Independence Party, the forwards, and the left green have the legitimate claim. Let's go over it. Some were immediately accomplished, but much has not been accomplished and some seems to have been betrayed, at least So far. You can normally do better later in the season than the season. This is probably the third Parliament, since the election will likely be launched in the spring of 2021, and the time will be very fast. Let's start with the entrance. ▪ In a new government, groups running the political spectrum from left to right will try to add a new tone, isolate themselves into the key projects that put Iceland in the front order, and make the knots so that it will be good to live and work for young and old. That sounds good. In Iceland there are many unusual social concerns. Kingdom interests have been stabilised, but when society and new subjects are looked into the background, they face a major and extensive task. It says it's time for Iceland to come in the front row. They're going to put a focus on a key project, and it's pretty clear, that the government case is downright. It's worked. What hasn't been done is the infrastructure. If we look at the study that Gallup did for Pirata's party, people would prefer to put the health system first, so transportation and education, rather than taxation. People do not focus on paying up federal debts and even when taking up all the tax cuts, the world's priorities regarding taxation and payment, they fail to reach the health system, and they reach out to just over half of the priorities that people place in the medical system. Yet, there is no medical system at these budgets according to Land Hospitals at 1,600 million. K. in business. The Landspit says they're short. Other health institutions in this country need a total of 800 million. K. It's a small business problem. The people of the land are totally explaining their priorities. The dressers of all classes put the medical system first. However, there are e.g. Fishing costs are further reduced by 3 billion. It's a case that was forced by manual force from the committee to the dispute this morning in order to get it here at 2nd. to try to finish it. Let's continue, with President's permission: The national economy has improved rapidly over the past few years, but balance must be maintained with the nation and the opportunities of all who live in the land. There they feel that microchip is clearly beyond their reach. If we look at the years since the collapse, the last ten years, they have been betrayed very often during the difficult times of their rise. It is legally said that they were to have elevations, that's what they've been said in the budget year after year - but not now. They have been left behind, and they feel betrayed because all political parties announced an election that they want to cancel a dollar in return. Today, they are in the position of earmarking, not 4 billion, as in government funds, but that amount was dropped to 2.9 billion, and this 2.9 billion is due to be established at the end of the revision process. It will be necessary to accept this revision if they are to be funded for it, including that. To fulfill the campaign promise given by that government. It's not a beautiful mollusk. It's not nice to set it up that way. That is not what was said for elections and disabilityrs have legitimate expectations of receiving this amount without setting them up on a wall so that they have to go through a rating that many people are critical of - and what? Do they first need to decide whether it will be a work assessment, what it looks like, and delay and postpone the provision of disability? That is not what was said, that is not what was promised. It is only after that, and it is understandable that microorganisms are hurt and that they feel betrayed. Let's continue, with President's permission: ▪ Long-term stability has to be maintained, increasing transparency in activities and administrations to strengthen public trust. Long-term stability is required. It's clear that both the highest. Prime Minister Katrín of Jakobsdóttir's daughter and of the highest degree. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial and economic minister has -- I studied this very carefully when I was preparing a lawsuit and in the lawsuit against a dresser--are absolutely clear that the stability of a labour market is the basis for the stability of the economy. Since there is no conflict with this, it has been known, and as a result, the law of dressers, not to raise the pay of those who fall, the rulers and the executives of state institutions, and so forth, that their salary could not be raised beyond the general pay. This was done, and the next year, the prime minister has, of course, acknowledged that we will be in the same place in the form of remuneration. It's all acknowledged. Those in charge could be raised, and they could be raised again, but the disabilityrs have to wait, and by violating the law, they could be promoted. Piratars have repeatedly submitted laws and changes to the government's prime products, which have been dropped or salted by a committee to reduce the wages of officials, generals, ministers, and others who heard advice before it was canceled, to the extent that they followed a general labour development as required by the law. This has been rejected repeatedly. They say a longer-term stabilisation is required. Yes, of course. But it is not good when the government groups themselves, or the government, refuse to base the stability of the fact that there are not two nations in this country, one who is raised beyond the general pay development in a legal and repetitious manner, and then the other who must accept ten times the rise in their reward. Of course, it does not create stability, which creates instability. It also says, with the permission of the President, that long-term stability has to be required, increasing the transparency of activities and the whole administration to strengthen the public's confidence in corporate affairs, financial life, politics, and community institutions. There's talk of transparency in all of the administrations. There's one good thing over there, topv. The prime minister has at his Constitution a bill to pass information laws on both the Offices of the Generals and the Offices of the Court of Justice. It is good, and we will mention it and commend what is done well. That's very good work. It is said to strengthen the confidence of the public even in the common people. There is something that Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter immediately started. It made a fine document. It's not going as far as it would be necessary, but as far as it goes, it's good, so to see how the project continues to develop. There will be a set of standards that can be followed into the future. It's good and professional too. I'll continue, with President's permission: Since the collapse of the economy, there have been many successes but still lacks the social reconciliation that the nation has long called for. It speaks of social reconciliation. By setting this up, as I mentioned earlier, in the way micropunchers feel betrayed, and by not making peace with them in the construction of this financial bill, whether the Minister or the Council, it is not possible to create social reconciliation with that group. There are 20,000 people in this community. It's not a small group, it's 7◯8% of voters. It's not what we're doing here, creating a social reconciliation with that group. I'll continue, with President's permission: ▪ That [this social reconciliation] needs work. At the same time, rapid social change and a changed view of society is needed in many areas but also global turmoil. Iceland can be a strong international voice by setting an example of equality where it can be done even more effectively, taking pride in climate goals, protecting arid land, and caring for nature and life. Sustainable development will be the key to decisions in line with international commitment and goals. I don't know about the premium. Hv. paritaprevir Pirata, a Smári Mccarthy, has considered that the goals set are so far from saving what must be saved. People can learn more about it. Come on, with president's permission: In addition to improving communication, any planned development plans for the future need to be done. Look at the word "concerning. " Meetings often mean that when you face discussions with governments, you will be there and be informed about the decisions the government has made and may make some comments. It usually doesn't change anything, almost never does anything, but it's called consultation. When you hear the word "counsel " in the Treaty, do not be surprised that it is not what ordinary people call consultation. When ordinary people talk about communication, they mean that you talk and really try to communicate things and reach mutual conclusions about things. It is not a common understanding when it comes to consultation with a government covenant. ▪ A team cooperation is needed at the General Assembly, strengthening the independence of the Parliament, its equipment, professional support, and official status. It's all very good. Then there will be a better consultation with the workforce on the stronger community in most areas. Again we talk about consultations, that's where the workforce is. Yes, and it's a good thing that the government and Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir have been talking to the head of the workers in the labour market, both professional drivers and hired people, but there is a password here. It is clear that the officers in this country are overly unhappy with this financial bill. That conversation does not make its way into these budgets, and we are faced with 70% labour contracts in a general labour market at the end of this year. We're about to sail into a pig winter. It is not being reflected in this financial bill, far from it. I can only quote a report at the University where president of the VR, Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, says it's going to be a real struggle if this budget is to come to an end. It should be clear to everyone. Come on, with president's permission: To develop infrastructure, development, and financial communication, the need for further consultation and support of rural society is to be made. An unusual situation calls for a change of practices, open administration, transparency to some extent of transparency, as mentioned earlier, with increasing information laws. It's good - and respect for assignments. It is the will of the classes that are now involved in government cooperation and the promotion of the Generals to a new approach to the work in support of the general public in the country, especially by giving intensive support to the General Assembly and increasing its effectiveness. When it comes to the Council, which is a lot of talk, we face the challenge of strengthening the General and thinking about its effect, etc. - now a matter is on the basis of a complaint about the possibility of violations of the General Code of the Presidency, and there we may be facing an issue that is not to be followed by impartial and principle on fair treatment. These protocols were given the initiative of GRECO, which is an organization against corruption, etc. But if they will go that way, it won't be the Pirats, they won't allow them to go that way. This must be done professionally. Otherwise, we've destroyed on the moral principles we've set for ourselves, and the code of ethics can be used to whitewash government officials, but it can be used as a resemblance to the smaller parts. When I was at this job, before I left the council last, on the Presidency Committee, it is exactly what I pointed out, that if the rules were made as they were done and if it weren't struck the defence that it was an independent panel, a moral committee, which could be referred to things that would investigate it, we would have this position which now seems to be possible to establish a prime committee. I will inform the people more about this situation. It's very serious. Then you go into the government covenant, and there comes Generalism first. Let's see what it's gonna look like. When you read through it, you begin to understand the priorities of this government. It should not be surprising that their cases are not necessarily precarious, that they have been sewed difficult conditions and a long line of work to cover. Health issues are first presented in section two about strong society. No wonder, for the top priority among the voters of the left green turns towards health. Today, education is right behind transportation, but it was no. 2. Homing is a matter that burns on humans. Then we go on: edification, transportation, communication, law enforcement, culture, creative articles, sports, and we're done with chapter two on strong society. Then chapter three: A huge economy. Here comes the labour market, text of a concerted campaign with the labour market, by permission of a president, to ensure that collective contracts bring real benefits to the employees and the community. A workforce is essential for maintaining stable prices and balance, thereby providing economic conditions for lower interest levels and improved biographies. This is in the government covenant itself. Of course, all of this is true, but it is not being reflected in these laws. That's what the employees have said and clearly said. Then there's a section on taxes, agriculture, fishing roads, tourism, financial systems, and we're done with the economic situation. Then chapter 4 comes about the environment and climate. There are several subsections. Then, chapter 5, Creation, and research, and we know, not until chapter 6, which includes a list of opportunities for equality, and finally a section on welfare matters that is spoken of by the government, by the permission of the President, is an overview of the microenergy pensioners for changes in the improving system in order to create reconciliation with the system, to ensure the implementation of micro-energy donors, and to promote community participation. Here it comes, and this seems to be what the government groups are doing, but this is not what they said for elections. You can read from this that they're going to do this, but they're going to let the system change come first. You need to wait, and you need to accept the change in system. Your leaders will have to accept this system change if you are going to receive the money we really promised you for elections. This is not surprising when you consider how the voters of these classes are. [[The president calls.]] They are not particularly large enough people with less than 250,000 dollars. pay. I can get to that in answer right after.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson speech. After a talk, we had a talk. Yesterday's senator, if I'm not beginning to lose track of these discussions, and that speech was most illuminating than it was all sharper. Hv. A senator put together priorities in the state, took an extension of the speech from yesterday, of the survey made by the Plerars, which is very up - to - date and informative. We talked about it only yesterday and so reasonable in government matters. The study shows that the country prefers a more efficient health system to cover debt and reduce taxes. To words like, "What?" This information made it clear to a senator that paying debts down as quickly as we have. I think that was a very sensible course. While it may be that we had 30% dues on public financial laws, less interest rates have increased the scope for the infrastructure that is shown in the budget that we are discussing here. Wait a minute. A senator explaining his point a little more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u74	Mr. President. That was a very good question. You have a home and you have to worry about its insides. It is shown in the government covenant that the interiors have been left behind. State's stability has been at the tip, that's true, but the longer you wait for the infrastructure to rebuild your house, the more expensive it will be. Then, at some point, paying off debts is no longer financially practical. Building up the infrastructure is more economicly practical, and this is what has been delayed and delayed. Instead of going to an even greater parish when it comes to infrastructure, people still have unscrupulous financial laws. We have come to the health - care center as an example of building a new hospital, but many other factors have been noted. That's what we've been told in recent years. Paying off debt doesn't seem like the information I've got, if that means kicking the infrastructure. Looks like this government to me, at least. In word, to mention it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for explaining this better. I agree that I think it was a very reasonable government of government to stress down debt, make stability money on it, and lower the rate of interest, but also make a refund as we have been in progress. We have better ways to do so now, to have improved credit ratings, and so on, so that we have been able to reimburse them too. We've got a better loan. I agree with what. A senator will now be able to see if we can slow this down. It is not necessarily desirable for a government fund to hold no debt. It is this balance now, and we need to start working on this growing need. That's what we're doing. A senator agrees. I thought why. A senator makes it very clear here, and I appreciate it. Hv. A senator spoke of the term reconciliation, linked stability to a workforce, as disability was designed to create a conflict that had delayed the rate of 4 billion. In fact, I don't tire of saying that they're completely earmarked to the task of winding off a bad system and going on it. Wasn't that right, like the highest. A minister came in, that the harmony of this interaction was not completely settled? The evaluation is called, and it is important to agree on the ways and suggestions that a minister and his staff bring into the council, suggestions that we can then discuss and apply.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u76	Mr. President. I don't agree exactly with what you're saying. A senator, and he wants to read my words. No, the infrastructure is too small for what is suggested here. Work market sowing is not based on this budget bill. In terms of priorities during the survey, a reduction in the rate of the hunting costs of priorities will be 1.4, while increasing in social security and welfare matters will get 28.5. It is clear that priorities are not what the people of the land want to see. The priority order may be like a platoon leader who wants to see it with his sponsors. I think it's pretty clear that she's not like the people of the country want to see it. The priorities of the country's likes are not setting priorities, nor are they setting high enough for infrastructure. I'm not surprised when it comes to micro-germs like I went over yesterday. I have more numbers here. When it comes to social security and welfare, the advance team has 17 priorityes, 21 Independence Party and 27 left Greens, with 45 priority rates and 34. The fact is, voters of the governments do not have social security and welfare issues in the same priority as other classes' voters. This government is not a micromanagement government, and then we watch people in a Gallup survey from the third quarter of this year, which has less income than 250,000. The highest income group at the left green has more than that. Some 11% of people have more than 1.5 million. [[The president calls.]] Then there's always a growing voter group left green, and it's up to 16% with 250,000 and more, but less than 250,000 falls to 9%. [[The president calls.]] The facts speak for themselves, these are not groups that put disability first, or they have voters who are desperate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u77	A respectable president. I'm gonna try to finish going over my committee opinion. I'm going to do a little research on the topic areas in the end. I've generally covered the welfare issues and the areas yesterday, and I'm going to try to finish the rest of them now. Then I'll start with No. 1: General Assembly and observation centres. Under that direction, the U.S. legislator and State Accounting are both a very important office, a very important organisation, both for the public and for the council, because the information received by members of the Parliament is often general reports of the others and these organizations and of the people abroad, but to a large extent, we get expert opinion and information from the advice we are taking in. The fact that we do not have a particular need for facts about the information that the Ministry is giving us is a minor error, as it has been observed, for example. in the last assembly when we received information that was not all that was involved. It was later found that there was more information about e.g. The National Court case that did not appear until after a vote for a council on that matter was made. Then it was found that any expert opinion within the Ministry advised a minister against setting a path she made. It provides an example of the lack of ability at times to control members of the General Assembly. There, the U.S. Marshal, aided by e.g. individual citizens and general assessments, as well as national accountants in a review of various financial and business issues and such factors. I'm going to briefly mention rural society and geographic matters, not materially, but technically by the laws of the law. It says that the contribution to the County Fund of rural society is increasing by 985.9 million. Expenditures are divided into the topic range, allowing spending and spending space to rise, while the technical factors said to explain the rise are just increasing 528 million. K. There is no apparent combination of the exchange rate increase that shows how 985 million come into this category, out of this field. It says in terms of public security and justice that 80 billion should be temporarily granted. K. to the chief of police in the capital area to promote organized crime with special emphasis on action against drug trade, import, and production. The use of money is relatively unclear. Government policies are not easy to read, nor is there any cost there, of course not. There must be a measure of caution on this, such a trust should actually be premature. If such measures have not been taken, there is a serious risk that there can be a negative impact on the drug users involved there. This is far too short, but only on transportation and communications. The government issued a statement on transport, but the industrial bodies came to a meeting of the budget committees and made them simply by their reviews, showed how the donations are far below the average of the past few years and in fact decades, i.e. The overall mean before collapse. We are just about to reach an average of 1.1% of GDP. This morning at a meeting of the environment and transportation committee, it was said that at the time of the initial high road application, even 2% had to be reached to meet the transport system as they are motivated. Obviously, we are far from it at the moment. It is a fine price to make large declarations. Now it has been cut down about 500 million. K. ... betweencontractions. This happens between the 1st and the 2nd. But when you make major statements, you either have to make them or drag them back. When you look at historical facts and overall values, there is no point in saying a big campaign of communication. Of course, it's an increase from earlier years, but we're starting with so much lower numbers that we're just taking our first steps. I don't see the big offense yet, and it's not seeing in financial programs either. Only in the fishing field and in the fishing field. The majority stress that the environment of the fishing road is fair and stable on the part of the government and directs it to the government that further work on the impact of fishing costs on national settlements. I'm sorry to apologize to a respectable president, but I have to say it only. This is a complete denial of the systematic problem of the forwarding of hunting warrants. There's the problem. It's always better to have hunting warrants and to pay for hunting fees than to have no fishing warrants for our country's settlements. That is what has been done by the forwarding of fishing documents; it has simply disappeared from various areas and settlements of the country. There is a need to examine and ask for detailed work on the impact of fishing costs on country's habitats and how that system is affected, not how the fishing price itself works. It's just bullshit, Mr. Honorable President, so I'll say a little bit. More about the water main. The majority say about the available fishing bill that it is neither fair nor stable, and there is no way to figure out the number on which the price is based. It's very classic. That was also true of a former hunting bill. It was somehow tried to hide the effects of the changes in order to try to round the matter through the council with the slightest information. It's heading back, looks like you. It's going to be very interesting to see how it goes, but, by the way I see it, it's also being added, the definition of fishing costs, that they're called tax. It sounds as if someone was trying to establish it, somehow by a law, not to develop a possession through the operation of the fishing grounds. But once they've been transferred in some way, it's a tax from property. Somehow, an attempt is being made to take a false step around the law as they look. More important, it is environmental. Despite a considerable amount of money being placed on environmental issues, the problems of the environment are the same as in any other part of the world. It's this problem: There is no dissociation of the budget increase in financial funds. However, the Environment and Resource Ministry had one of the best presentations of the budgets and brought a financial committee disintegration, as shown in a commission by the Committee. What is missing is a better explanation for the largest cost increase, i.e. for action on climate. The first edition of the Action Programme has been published, but like other objectives and measures by the government, plans are not costly. All we know is 600 million is to go. K. next year. We have no idea of how this amount of money is spent. Thus, there are a number of measures to be used, but the question of efficiency remains, and if there is not available, the cost-and-exploitation process cannot be said to be most efficient, the best, and the most efficient way to use it. Surely all the operations are better than none. There is no criticism. But the challenge we face is, for example, ours. Because we do not survive international debt, we even need to buy carbon parvots, as we have been expressed on a transport board, which may hold up some 1,250,20 billion. We set up 6 billion over a period of financial planning, and if I understood all that was right at the environmental and transport committee meeting, it's 12,520 billion a year. That's why I wanted it open. It is often very Catholic when a rapid answer is made within the committees. But this is the information I was able to get out of my time. We're turning up at a hundred and twenty billion. a challenge of 6 billion. I don't know if that'll do. It's unlikely, but you hope for the best. [[The president calls.]] We need to get better information on that subject, and I'd like to call for a similar meeting back on the environment and transport committee but have it open to the public to hear it from the first hand, from the experts, how big the problem is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The servant of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, who three times has done much research. Is that good? Hv. A senator reviewed the topic area, but his talk period was always reduced. I'm sure a senator would have taken more time. I'm gonna stick around for a while. A significant increase in expenses is indeed being made to transport. It must be held in place. That is counted in the next three years as a campaign. Hv. A senator introduced a review, a practice very carefully, from the trade organization, which has to do with transport and the accumulated need. Of course, that is a big task ahead of us. Even though we increase and expand our expenses at all sectors and as much as possible transportation can be counted in decades, compared with the same pace, just working at the accumulated need, I'm not talking about new projects and maintenance of those projects. Of course, walking to airports and ports is also waiting for huge projects. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of his ideas and of Pirata to finance it for the future. It is obvious that the annual tax dollars, those streaming in, the cooling system, will not depend on it if we are going to do it properly. What are the ideas of Pirata and what? A senator's concern about how we make arrangements for the future? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u79	A respectable president. Certainly, there is an increase in expenses to transport. I did not deny it in my talk. But the increase just brings us closer to the average of the last few, and although quite many, years, if you take a long time to cover the crash period, to get a comparable comparison. In that picture, the big offense sounds like a mouse screaming: A big cheer! As to the funding of this huge project, it is a huge and necessary question for the rest. We are certainly faced with that assignment, and we cannot ignore it. You can't wait until we can afford it, that's just the way it is, in terms of taxes. Pirat's ideas are, as always, to have an open mind with regard to possible solutions. This morning there was a presentation on a different route that has gone here and there in the country. It is not necessarily an idea that is built to increase the budget in the same way that was done in the Hagland tunnel. What we can best see is the distribution of it. If they're going to nail the capital area in and put the back around the capital area, there's nothing extremely fair about equal. At the same time, road charges cannot be set in the country, since traffic simply does not depend on the payments. [[The president calls.]] But then perhaps a portion of projects could be funded by a road loan. [[The president calls.]] Then all over the country, without traffic, would be the same. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They were at least in every part of the country, not just in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u80	President wants to ask why. A senator's time limit is due.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We've had some ideas about how to solve it in a few comments. In one of the most difficult cases, there was an idea that a solution, which is a PPP, is part of it as a whale. A senator came in. I think very much of the word in the review that I am reminded of a business venture that is a cooperative arrangement. That statement was found there and has since been adopted in the discussion of the transport program. Of course, we need to look for solutions, such as water. A senator came in. I think that the most difficult thing to do in such projects is just as fair and equal in terms of payment. But if we're going to do all the transport work, I think we need to go this way. I didn't mean to leave any particular question before a reason. Rather, a senator commends him for his zeal in the discussion. This will be of great benefit to you. The budget and the discussion here should be carefully considered in the form and format of the budget. We need to make things right, to make it clearer, to get out as the most useful information. Hv. A senator has entered a number of factors, a budget, and a costed object, and I want to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u82	A respectable president. I'm going to continue with the answer from earlier on. Yeah, we got an idea about PPP, or Public Private Partnership, which was translated as a cooperating route. I think that's the wrong translation of the term and specifically designed for progress. Technically, it's not the same thing. Regardless of this, no other suggestions have been offered on the scope of this project. After all, we were certainly left behind the financial collapse of various federal debts over the taking of business banks, there were huge debts in the community, at the homes that have been won well. Several groups were left behind, e.g. Students and tenants, on that road. We're going through this now in a shelter, where there are definitely a few types of apartments missing. Travelers have been affected there. But what remains, and I think that is the big debt we have after the collapse, is the infrastructure. We simply see that the build-up and maintenance need is enormous. There's been no work on it since the collapse of the economy. This is the huge project we provided for elections. All classes promised to make their way up wood. Well, then, the question is how. And there has been no solution other than some form of cooperation that I might want to do more cooperation than Public Private Partnership, or joint cooperation of a state and private people. [[The president calls.]] I'd rather use it closer to the point of cooperation than the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u83	Mr. President. Here we will discuss the budget for 2019 C.E. The proposed budget bill for 2019 is expected to be 4.8% between years. Far from now on, it is possible to say that there are budgets here that contribute to cutting. The budget increase is expected to be less than 5% in government operations in the coming year. As in recent years, the addition is mostly a means of well - being. During the past two, three years, the government's expenditures have increased by 7◯8% between years, the growth has been tremendous, and in all historical contexts of noteworthy years, considering the extent to which the State's spending has increased in recent years, and the budget that has been put on the budget is primarily into welfare. The economic emphasis on the budget points out that the state's budget is stronger than it has been for years, no greater production. Much emphasis has been placed on the reduction in debt over the years, and the goals are far more rapid than expected. Men went on their way to reduce the debt of the state. This improved position now enables us to take action in building wood and to increase contributions to various important issues. In terms of economic factors, particular emphasis is being made on maintaining the high economic benefit achieved and maintaining the unusually high commerciality of the population that, as we know, has been significant in recent years and without any condemnation. What is the most remarkable thing about government funds in recent years is the subsidies of the State's debt and how successful it has been. What a fine work this has been done! In recent years, growth costs have dropped rapidly and have greatly strengthened the economic environment in this country. What is unique in this context is the increase in household savings at the same time as economic savings is high. This is completely new in the historical setting, since economic crisis has usually ended the high debt of the households, which has driven the economy in a more favorable pace. This is different now. We're finishing the eighth year with considerable interest, especially in 2016, where we had more than 7% economic growth, second in the world, I think, after India that year, above China. At the same time, government funds have always been kept secure, and the State has continued to pay off debt. In this context, the Icelandic economy is better prepared to cope with subtraction or economic trauma, I think. In fact, we have never been in the best position to cope with such downturns as we do today. There have been very different opinions about the laws on government finance and how it has been handled, and we may continue to have opinions about it. We may have been working for two, three years actually on public financial laws. There are many things to learn, and now for the first time, the rule has its own to say that the government fund should deliver 1% of its share of domestic product. These days and weeks will be put to the test after a fresh reevaluation of the Economics concept was made, i.e. ... totakethisoffcard. It is a great deal of support from what was previously being done in terms of government funds and contributions to a financial bill. Then we need to see how we will cope with the next few years. The principle is truly the principle of universal financial discipline. We have it set 1% in the budget now, and then in the next few years, 0.8% or 0.9% to 2023. In general, we do not discuss how the income stocks of the Kingdom are built up. This combination has changed substantially in recent years. A greater and larger part of the government's income has been paid. Today it is estimated that about 1/3 of the government's earnings will pass through the cost tax. Granted, an explosion in the arrival of tourists in the country had considerable impact, just through this point, the merit tax, and was clearly able to investigate the exactness of their appearance. The Group of Travellers estimates that there may be about 20 billion today who pass through the value tax of foreign tourists. There are 255 billion who come through the cost and the income tax of 195 billion, or 24% of the government's income. These two groups are estimated to be 56% of all incomes. The insurance bill is 101 billion and the income tax pays 79 billion. This means that the four largest income institutions in the state count about 79% of the state funds. It's relatively simple, i.e. We don't have many tax institutions behind the back of the vertebrae in the income raise of state funds. I'm just gonna talk about my debt and how it's changed in recent years, as I just came in. From 2012 onward, debt has dropped by about 670 billion. The cumulative growth rate of the 2012 state funds is 138 billion, based on the fact that interest and other financial costs have remained unchanged throughout the years, i.e. For 2012. These are amazing numbers, display amazing changes in the business of a government fund and how successful it has been to pay off debt. The rate of taxes is now estimated to be 290 billion. higher in the next year than 2012, the real value. There's a 50% increase in no longer time. The estimated 57% higher in the next year than was 2012, and the cost of the tax next year yields 88 billion more than in 2012. That's what we're looking at in the statistics. At the end of the next year or at the beginning of the next year, the goal of achieving public, state, and rural goals will be less than 30% of the debt criteria that have been set on public financial law and may be going faster than expected, as I entered earlier. It will be a time of history when it will be, and this is an amazing change in time. I'm just gonna go through the welfare issues and some numbers. Health contributions are 21 billion higher next year than under this year's budget, 31 billion higher than last year. In all, we spend 230 billion on health care in the coming year according to a bill. Thus, from 2013 onward, Kingdom funds have increased by over 77 billion dollars. ... orover50%. There will be an 8 billion increase next year, meaning that the real increase from 2013 to 26 billion is 26 billion. For older citizens, there is an increase of nearly 5 billion between 2018 and 2019 and 40 billion in real - life since 2013. In total, contributions are being made to microcreatures and older citizens at some 150 billion in the coming year. This means that about 381 billion go to welfare in 2019 or about 49% of the taxpayers of the coming year, just to put in touch with what I mentioned earlier about the provinces. It's a good thing to get a scene like this, how it's gonna go. I want to celebrate, so I come in, that new helicopters are now expected and the first 1,900 million come into that package in the coming year. In total, about 14 billion will be spent next year on helicopters, expecting them to come to the country of 2022. It is a long time ago that the sheep's helicopter has grown considerably old, the oldest helicopter of more than 30 years of age. It is also true to mention that since 2012 there has been a basic balance in the affairs of the State. I don't think that many European communities have lived through this in recent years, and it's a real pleasure to find it. My colleagues in the greater part of the budget have already considered the greater portion of the 2. Um, so I'm just about to kill on what's related to the 14th matter area, a tourist service. Somehow it's left for me to talk, as strange as it is now. In recent years, the importance of tourism in the export work of the nation has increased considerably. Last year, the tourism and flight were about 42% of the population's exports, 18%, the large 14%. In the majority of the legal committees, we will discuss this, and we will apply our opinion as shown by financial programmes of 2019◯223 in spring on the importance of improving the provision for transport services in Iceland, as determined by the latest news. There has been a emphasis on the budget for the past year, that this report will be added. There is a very good collection of data in Iceland in transport services, but the report, economic reports and work, and research on the statistical data available has not been sufficient in terms of the economic significance and importance of the Icelandic economy article as it has become today. Hence, it is extremely important that additional work be added to further analysis of this part of the economy. Now that tourism has become the largest export work in the country, it is very important that knowledge of the economic importance of this article exists. It is as important that, as I came to see, the impact of this article on the establishment of the Kingdom is properly understood. What may be most lacking is economic research related to tourism. This should be an important factor and to strengthen and support the research institutions involved, as well as to improve the quality of the living room. Then I'm also looking very closely to the so-called travel-service calculations, in English, by permission of Presidents, Tourism Satellite Accounts, TSA calculations, or travel service calculations. It is of utmost importance to improve this and to develop stratospheric analyses that contribute to the economic impact of tourism on the Icelandic economy and the government's business. In this context, it is also appropriate to keep in mind the emphasis of the greater part from last year on budget and I just want to reiterate what was presented there, by permission of the president: In recent years, there has been rapid growth in the neighborhood of foreign tourists in Iceland, which has had a major impact on the economy. The majority stress that research and staging on the economic impacts of the industry will be strengthened. Here it is true that the importance of the powerful flying operation practiced by Icelandic pilots is also examined in this context. That business creates a considerable percentage of the money paid for tourism. This is the focus of which I have a personal interest in, that there will be a deal with investigating the flight specifically, not that it will just fall under the travel service at present. So today. It is stated in the review of the Association of Travel Services on the 2019 budget that the currency dollars are about 377 billion. Of these, 65 billion are the income of the export trades of foreign tourists to the country. In addition, the prenuptial ticket of contact is across the ocean, due to the connecting process. That's a lot of money. Overall, the airlines in the national industry pay totals of about 180 billion in air traffic. It's been this ratio, 353/40%, of the travel service calculations. In other words, there are 126 billion people on a front of the ocean and a number of Icelandic international pilots. It's a good thing to call attention to this, so to speak. Senators saw how large this amount of money is already coming through the Corporate at Keflavík. So I would like to stress that there are better tests on this. There has been no way in itself to investigate this aspect, the huge activity of flying across the sea, and the crossing of the Atlantic Ocean. It would be very good if there were further research in that field. I also want to point out the importance of oil prices in this discussion, there will be some changes that actually involve the Icelandic economy more than have been in recent years, oil comes strong through airplane fuels. The cost of airplane fuels and global oil prices is almost complete in markets. We've seen oil prices fluctuate at the beginning of the year and up to the early part of October, the cost of airplane fuels increased by 30%, and then dropped again at the last five, six weeks by 15%. It would be interesting to see how they make their way into the race and how they are affected. Structural imaging analysis of these factors has not been available, but the contribution of aircraft fuel to airlines management may be 25How35%. There will be a practical size which is very important to follow along in the context of things, both when we're considering the development of progress and the price of each passenger and the other. Then there's gonna be a turning point where there's a big part in this operation, i.e. We're fueling the engines. I wanted to mention this. I've thought about this a little bit today when I prepared this speech, I've thought about it lately that it would be very interesting to try to go a little deeper into this. I still want to do so again, and have done so many times here in the PalaIIis, pressing the Oxford Economics report on flying in Iceland for repeated 2011. It said that 6.6% of Iceland's national production comes from air traffic. This business has grown tremendously since then, at which point 16 planes flew to and from the country; four planes from Iceland Express and 12 from Iceland Express. Today, we have 55 planes, more than three times as well as a big increase in pipes. When we discuss with the directors of these communities, there are still optimisms about the future, looking forward to a rise in international air growth in Iceland and about the Cheflavour Airport, both in foreign tourists to Iceland, as well as in the markets of the North Atlantic, to link America and Europe together. This geographic location of Iceland seems to be an amazingly competitive point for this business, to have this location and flight across the Atlantic Ocean. For a very large part of Europe and America, we are in the best position to win this model that humans work with today. The growth in tourism has now diminished. We may be closer to seeing now, instead of this supergrowth that has been here since 2010 and 2011, this is getting closer to the figures that were the average growth from 1950-2010. Today, we are much closer to the average growth since 1950 than to this supergain in recent years, quite a different picture. On the other hand, we also see in the management of airlines that the market with the connecting flight is increasing as a part of airline management, and today it is not on either side of 60%, i.e. share passengers who are primarily flying over the sea. The number of people in Iceland is then reduced as foreign tourists, and the proportion of Icelanders in business is constantly decreasing in this process. I just want to run out here on a few things. In general, when we discuss budget money, people talk a lot about spending money on government funds. But I just want to do what needs to be done in the environment, as perhaps I've discussed in the case of tourism, and what the state can do to promote more revenue and to meet future expenses, which are growing. We have a series of lawsuits where we do our people and there's going to be a huge increase in expenses. I'm just about to introduce the competitiveness of the exports, and maybe I'll start where there's been a missing travel service. In terms of income, we look at these points today that I mentioned earlier. This is primarily travel service and air traffic. This is the fishing road and the big industry, the electricity industry, selling electricity for industry, which is still the main factor, and hopefully we can change it and get more branches in. There's nothing we can do about it. This is an amazing change from what was happening when you were growing up some 30 to 25,000 years ago. At that time, the fishing road may have had 753/4.80% of all exports. He's already in 18%, the big 14th. This is an amazing change in a short time. We have a completely different economy and a completely different environment. Hence, it is a little exciting to see how we can cope and to make good use of the changes we are making. Regarding the tourism and flight, it is a pleasure to see that flying is now taking place. Transporter has started this work, that's a task force and three subsets that are setting up and molding international flight policy in all areas because this important article needs to be developed. In the discussion, it may often be forgotten how powerful the flight has been in this country in recent years in all of the tremendous economic changes that have been occurring. I may have mentioned it before, e.g. In Iceland there are six times as many pilots as there is in the United States, the world's largest flying country. It's just the way it is, here's one in 200 to 250 active professional pilots. It's completely without any global precedent, just to put it in some context of things. This document, which will come from the work started in building a flight policy, is extremely important. We need to shape how we are going to be competitive in this area for a longer time and to use the competitiveness we have with the country's location of traffic that has so far been primarily between the United States and Europe, but people are also looking to Asia today. If I recall, to put Asia into some context, it takes one hour longer to fly from Peking to Iceland than to fly from Peking to Copenhagen. We're three hours from Keflavík to Copenhagen. So we are well - seated, too, in regard to certain macrometers and connections. Let's see how this all works, and I think that such factors should become part of this ideologies, into a flight policy. I must, however, come to see the importance of reserve airports and infrastructure of the infrastructure behind the Cheflavor Airport being secured. It'll probably be part of this policy to secure them and in other ways also at other jobs where I myself am on the front, I'm gonna be leading a committee with a plan to introduce to the months - to - year - old ideas that are involved in this structure, to ensure that they're involved. As I learned earlier, the number of people has gone from 16 planes to 55 planes located in Keflavík, except for the foreign airlines that fly to and from Cheflavík. At the same time, there has really been no infrastructure, despite the triple in the number of machines to and from the country. Enough about the flight policy, but it's gonna be very exciting to watch at the first half of the next year when it comes up, what's seen in the work of the groups that have been working on this. But this has also been the driving force when we look at only the competitiveness of the country through its products and services, which is commonly referred to as the commercial equation, the total product and service equation. Last year, he was still positive about 4.1%, an enormous figure in history. I think that few European communities live with such luxury. It is natural for the nation's economic sustainability to bring back this great equation, and it was still much greater a few years ago. We need to be careful about this. Then it is competitive. An important point is being developed in nuclear energy, which naturally turns to our competitiveness and the transport system of electricity. Industrial Minister has set in motion a group on the issues we have of any of us here, please. Councilmen, let's sit in with experts in many places. It's exactly like flying policy, it's very important to shape this policy and see how people want to win these things, especially for us who have the greatest electricity production of every human being in Iceland. How important it is that we take a good view of these matters and see what comes out of that work! It's also exciting to watch the structure of data beings and what's going on with the mix-up, this fast structure there. It is very interesting to observe this trend. What I would personally be interested in knowing is what makes income for society, returns in material things. That's what I do with it all the time. It's not only about making currency money, it's about what it leaves in the country. There's money against expenses and all that. There may have been a number of reports, but there has been little debate over what data sources provide to the community in general. We're obviously going through the very fast development of this process, and as we can see from the reaction of the admixtose, people are in a much faster structure there, but they were expected to be merely months ago. Foreign people come into that investment and see great opportunities in this. As far as I'm concerned, this is going to be a data source based on calculus, which I think will be far more relevant to the community if you watch the big movie. Our third major export is the fishing route, where we have naturally been in amazing affairs. I have pointed out what those who have observed these matters in 1990 that 28 years ago, it was 10 pounds [10 kg] that went through every employee in the processing process. Now in our best homes and most technologically advanced, it's 180 pounds. The amount that goes through the houses has increased 18 times in 28 years. There are fewer and fewer people involved, and more is involved in marketing and technical work. This is an amazingly powerful development. These are our three largest currency articles. I often feel that I need more discussions here at a Senate Hall about these things, what makes valuable, and how we can take the lead in the future. Then there is a natural innovation in general. I went on a trip to the NATO Scientific and Technical Committee in the fall into California and visited San Diego and the Valley of Silicon. We visited many of the world's major high-tech companies, and a man saw amazing opportunities for Iceland to connect with these companies with various projects. The fun part was that all these people knew more and less about Iceland. A lot of people have come here as tourists in the last two, three years, and it also helps, and all this flight, it's a very direct link. Today it's in the Valley of Silicon, in Boston and then Austin, Texas, where the major pioneers and high-tech companies in the United States exist. You see a lot of potential relationships there. I'm gonna name an unmanned aircraft, we've visited a company with it, they've generally been known in warfare, but they can be very useful in technology and research, climate and search and rescue, e.g. I'm getting shorter in time, so I'm going to be able to do a few projects that would be more of a budget deal. The main project was the imaging equipment for health care facilities in the country, 200 million to promote them. We couldn't agree with our wishes for increased management initiatives in the same way as last year, directly into our business. There's a real problem there. In many respects, though, my emphasis has always been on the Land Hospital and Health Centres in the country, many of them have become somewhat overlooked. There were 200 million there. IN THE United States, 150 million were appointed by the president of a greater part of the legal committee that they should go to the walking - room service in Reykjavík and Akureyri and define it. I came into it at the beginning of the year in January, on the highest. Healthcare Minister, definition of service contracts, as per contract. A better understanding of what the State intends to get is the financial value involved in service contracts. This is not the only example, but we see this far and wide in the affairs of the State, and it is a special task to define more clearly what the State wants and intends to do by supporting that service. Then, too, it is very enjoyable that we put 18 million in the Afghan Team in Akureyri. I really hope to say it's the last time, but I don't believe it but that it's about to go into the foundation of the Ministry of Health now, and it's going to end up a very good and important project. I have full faith that I must succeed. Just to build up wood to create future income, I may have gone into it in some way, but, of course, you would want to see much more transportation, road construction, and port, and much more like airports. I hope there are new solutions to the work I'm doing at the Department of Transport for these things. Our electrical system is then one major project, and it's about to begin at the settlement, where Landsnet has set in motion. The graffiti circle is about 40 years old, so I wonder if it was in 1972,1980 where it was laid. Now the oldest part is old, and the nape and Landsnet are starting to set up projects that are involved and are starting north from the Crucesfield to the Crucasand Line 3. In fact, beginning at the River Valley Station, Crucess Line 3, it will be carried to Holasanndus Line 3, from the Cruces to the Cruces of the Court, and hopefully as soon as possible to join line three, linking the Ranger River to blend. If we are going to use electricity in this country in the best and wisest way to reduce energy loss, this must be completed as soon as possible and to complete these connections between areas. There is also much security involved in linking the northern and southern regions together, and it is no less a natural area in the southwestern corner and in the part of a large proportion of electricity in the country. It may be that from the reconstituted point of view, a river's valley is very similar to the amount of electricity produced in almost every part of the affected area. This involves total energy efficiency and the best security in the country. There are a wide variety of factors, as we agreed in June regarding the transport system, about 15 points in which it turned. Its structure is an enormously extensive project and has to do with the natural long-term energy policy that I only entered just moments ago. I just want to get on a project that's huge and big, and I've often adopted a financial committee. We have seen the nation's aging primarily in health matters. We're coming over in a few years. This trend is relatively fast. We will be in such a position that instead of having five, six workers against each elderly one, the ratio of three becomes active for one elderly person. It'll soon be here. We need a shorter timeline to examine the highly bioenergy issues, microenergy recipients, and the explosion in the number of people there. We need to find out what is going on when we consider data involving young people, disability, and mental health. Something's wrong. This isn't just Iceland. This is a conversation between members of the Parliament throughout Europe. It seems to be walking all over Europe. I've been discussing this less in the United States since you've been meeting with members of Congress, but in all Europe it seems that this is a huge deal. We in the Western world have to deal with this, it's got something to do with lifestyle changes and other things. This is one of the biggest cases, the incidence of disability, the statistics we've been seeing there and in the whole system. I just don't have time for this speech to finish that discussion here. Just in the end, there's a few seconds left. There is a remarkable situation in Iceland in economic affairs. We've got the long legs in our hands, and it's a big job to be good at the beach. We are to make good use of this noteworthy position that has been formed here in Iceland in recent years, and we are to make good use of it. Now it is almost over, and it would be natural to get another talk on certain subjects. I'm not now proclaiming an extended evening, but we're dealing with a financial committee and in this discussion that has to do with the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u84	A respectable president. Three minutes, let's take three questions. At first, there was a reason. A senator into income institutions and how they have developed in the past few years since 2012, which is very interesting. That's a tip we've received from a financial agency about how they're a little falling in economic rhythms. I agree with it. A senator there speaks of, in effect, the recovery of tax collectors. Then I wonder where to do it, because I'm not quite sure where the Independence Party is in or where it is. Senator. Should there be an increase in income or tax returns in what location? Probably, instead of reducing either the valuable tax or the income tax from the individual, they will be expected. Where, though, should we improve? Where Are They Supported? On what basis do we see the increase in government taxation? So the second question in the first round: How's it going? A senator making it difficult for us to find out more about the problems we have learned from the committee's inquiry about how the increase in spending is explained and disintegrated? The dissociation that we receive then does not match the pay raise to any group of paintings.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u85	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. It is very important to discuss the government's income institutions and how this will be considered in the long future. I haven't got any patent solution on it, looked for a long time. It's always been my ideologies that we have to be careful not to ruin the beach, business and other things and the will of people to earn their own resources and to tax companies so that they don't cut back. We can see the natural merit of tourism. It may be the most interesting thing, therefore, I'm talking about that it would be very interesting to investigate this a little more carefully how this exactly happens inside the systems that turn to this, whatever it is that's a income source for state funds. We can only see, you can remember, that in a few years, this has gone up tremendously, which has been primarily explained by the greater prosperity of the population and since the growing number of foreign tourists. With the ministry and the dislocation of information, I'm just completely agreeing. This can often be quite difficult to grasp. There are a lot of questions in general when you go through the data. I've also talked about the need to be done in a way that the public understand what is going on. Visualization is what I always think is best in this kind of thing. You can see a picture, and you can figure it out in five to ten seconds how the land is. I don't think many people are willing to read many pages about a particular subject, but this is what I want to see, better disintegration, and more graphicly put in motion than has ever been so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u86	There are very, very unsatisfied questions left for all of us in terms of the tax environment. The third question. Hv. A senator said that we have never been so equipped to make a financial depth in terms of debt debt, etc. But as I've come to this conversation, we wrestle now, and it really was the subject of our last election, our big debt that is the maintenance need and the infrastructure that's gonna make a lot of billions of noises. This is not a debt in the way we deal with public financial laws, but it is a debt, it costs us to keep on such a low level schedule as it is, and when we have our investments as small as it is. And what will we do with this debt if we go to an economic depth?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u87	Madam President. I appreciate the answer from what happened. Senator. I don't think we've had much better options right now to enter the infrastructure now that has to do with road repairs and airports and such factors in the environment that seems to be forming in the nation's economy. I think it's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity in itself. We're about to be in debt, with little debts. And that's exactly what it takes to stay out of the way. It's been very clear. It's been very common in public people I've never known, whether it's government or rural society, that when saving them, it's done in practical projects, not usually in business. That'll put us in a position like this. It's so easy to let go of the project, but this is where the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u88	A respectable president. I thought why. A senator would look to me so friendly when he spoke to me about flying matters that I could not resist thinking that we would discuss our common interests. So I bite the hook and I'm here. I'd like to think about one thing, and there's a flight crew structure all over the country and a certain vision I have on it. You see, considering the experiences of others, I believe there is a prerequisite for building a powerful airport all over the country, but we do not have a soloist in that area. It was, for example. The experience in my home country, Poland. While there was one person who ran all the airport, he liked to have the main airport cool, and other airports just had a peripheral role. However, as this group grew up into many independent societies, there was an ambition to build a much more widespread network of flight transport. I'm looking for a point of view. As far as this is concerned, whether it would be less successful for the development of a country's flight that perhaps one society would hold on to the tarmac airports and perhaps the airports that will always play the primary role in security than the airports that have the opportunity to develop as powerful international airports, I name them, e.g. The airports in Akureyri and Bulgaria, were allowed to work independently, and even compete with other airports.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u89	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for biting the hook. This is what we live in Iceland with regard to the international airports and the flight that we are an island very far from Europe and the United States and other international airports. That is why it is so necessary for us to build our system as a whole. They can't just stand one with fine circuits and other courses, they have to have some side of the spine behind them to make sure of flight security. That may be what makes this a bit unusual for us in relation to a flight in Europe, e.g. or the United States, where there are basically airports all over the world. These continents are covered with airports. However, what humans have done, e.g. in the North and we're talking about taking a look here in Iceland, having an overall vision in the airport systems to ensure safety. Avinor, Norway, Swedevia, Sweden, and Finland, these are the total systems of international airports to secure the overall system. I think it very unlikely that in our environment, this small nation with this location on the planet, only a bunch of international airports and everything will be here. I didn't get into this discussion that long ago when we were discussing Alexander's airport, possibly an international airport in Skavetir. I just went through these flying - tech things that are about what the international airport needs to be able to do in such a way. It's a big business and a high cost of operating just keeping it going from day to day, all investments, and such factors. I can't picture a single airport wide in Iceland that isn't thought to keep the overall interest in flight security. Flight security is always the first verse of flight. Then we can start talking about the Excel and the business. Me and the Icelanders need to be careful to take advantage of the overall picture, and maybe then I'll refer to the discussion that we took the other day through Alexander's airport, where I went on a rather long list of these flying things and what needs to be there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator is very impressed with the answer. But for me to get it straight, because the question may not exactly turn to the flight technology, but to the management environment and the odds that there will be powerful airports all over the country, large airports that can take on international traffic. I think, for example. that those who are coming to the country to make a round trip have no need to stop in Reykjavík, and there may not be any reason for the capital to be especially seeking that traffic, as the situation has become. A lot of others could take that round. I'm fishing for a dog. A senator whether he thinks it would be worse to build such a flying network, if e.g. One or two of these flights would be fired as an independent society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u91	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I don't think today there's any economic possibility of running one single airport in Iceland that was fired on these lines, flying to and out of the country, or accepting foreign passengers. It may take decades; it may be in the future stage after some years. But as I was trying to come on the discussion the other day about the possible Alexanders Airport, there's also been ideas about Aarborg, the Cape of the Hornfjord, I took particularly for how you can see other things connected, but I think the grounds at this point just don't exist, that each and one of the airports on your own terms could be firm in this as a boy. There's a senator coming in. I believe that in the exact same way that humans are considering these matters in Norway, Sweden, Finland and beyond, people should look to the rest and total airport systems to ensure safety of the flight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u92	Madam President. I would give ear only to a talk. When a senator discussed our economic success and the importance of the long - term competitiveness of the country, he spoke about it. I was thinking about this because I like to be drawn up, especially by the board of directors of the greater part, that in Iceland, it's an uncool kindness, like the highest. A secretary of transportation has put it today, which cannot provide the end. At the same time, we watch enormous dangers in many parts of the economy, as I know it. A senator knows, e.g. in travel service. Without our painting of the devil something special on the wall, the prospects for tourism have greatly improved, the prospects of a plane crash, which I know is what it is. A senator knows very well, has made much worse, and especially here in the country where we have seen that both our airlines and our international airlines have a number of problems. They wonder if this is not an unrealistic prospect for how far good it should be, but more so, when it comes to competitiveness. It's interesting when you look, for example. IMD statistics in Switzerland concerning our development and competitiveness that we are actually falling and have actually taken the place of competitiveness for the past five years in our unpredicted, unprecedented economy. We're at 24th right now, we've been around the top of 10 for a long time, we can say, before a crash. We've never gotten over it in a while. I wondered what causes and what explanation. A senator holds our position that despite the economic ups and downs, we are no better at being dedicated than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u93	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the question. There's been a lot of good in Iceland in the last few years, that's what I think. I think we're going into a much more quiet environment, but I also think we should be able to land this thing just fine until the next year. Like what? A senator may know because he has worked on a financial committee, I have asked most economists who have come in there how they appreciate the situation regarding the change in the nation's economy through the development of tourism. The service equation has become the real size of what is being looked upon in economic terms. For many years, the communicative balance has been extremely adverse. In the old days, only the warehouse was viewed, and the service equation was left over. The product equation basically shaped the business equation. I think it's interesting to watch what's going on and what the gang sickness means, which has become the last sign, where the weakness has been at 10-15% and the outcome has gone a little down. That's why I'm beginning to ask, " Why don't we start looking at a lot more airplane fuel and some of the factors and oil that are coming back in? ' This has grown much larger and more important economic sizes to form economic forecasts and such issues. I think, for example. the competitiveness of exports has increased considerably over the past year. We were number two in the world about the strength of pay and that in the international context. I'm not very negative when it comes to how we envision it. What's unique in that, too, and I came into it earlier, is that Icelanders are still paying off debt after eight years of profit, in considerable interest. [[The president calls.]] There's something different about it. That's why this is a bit of an exciting environment, what it's like to develop in us, what these big changes are like. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u94	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. When we look at the situation, it is certainly true that it is true. A senator points out that things have changed. We have an unprecedented piece of change, but it is actually disappearing very quickly for us, which was about 6% for a few months later, but it is probably down to 1% today. But it is not avoided when we look, for example, face up to it. the assessment of our competitiveness of the IMD that in the unprecedented economic growth, we are in almost 40 C.E. in competitiveness in terms of our economic system. There we must look forward to a tremendously high growth rate, an extremely unstable currency, an extremely unstable economy. We have a range of values when it comes to finches in economic growth, fluctuations in in in inflation, without necessarily growing faster than our neighboring countries. Of course, it is the unstableness that leads us to see that our technical branches have not grown particularly fast, and the job prospects of academics in this country are not particularly remarkable in international comparison. That's gotta be why. A senator's concern. [[The president calls.]] Indeed, it is to the people here who have a measure of concern. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u95	President. I can totally agree with what. Senator, I've been so worried about these matters, maybe in general, a very worried man, and I'm very worried about the situation. [[Up front.]] It's absolutely true that we were on business work, in incredible numbers, about 6% or 180 billion, or whatever, for 2016. It would be nice to see globally where such things have developed in the same way. And this happened on natural grounds through the pros. Even if it's down to 1% today, it's still 1%, or it's going to be 1%. I'd hold about 40 to 50 billion, something like that, 30 to 40, over 1%. That's why I came into the past that it's a little exciting to see what all the changes in our environment are all about. And what about gang problems? Is the time over? So it went.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u96	A respectable president. During this discussion, there have been discrepancies. Some have taken a wide look at the matter and others have become more narrow. I'm going to do the latter. I'm not going to do a lot of words about the big movie in this budget bill. Others have done so, e.g. Our excellent hearing officer on the budget board, huh? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. The big picture for me is that since the government that sat at its time and enjoyed my support - where Benedikt Jóhannesson was the minister of finance, one of the best financial advisers in Iceland, I'd like to mean - where a financial bill and financial program was proposed, which, in time, said, was, in fact, too much to be maintained, did not improve the situation in this regard. The first three words of the Society's Association of Employment are: a card to hold, even boldly written, and with blue to emphasize those words. I think they can take it to heart. At least I'm going to skate on a smaller ice. I'm gonna try to draw attention to one small language, at least in the scope of the budget and the scale it receives, the language that attracts children with a language other than English. Of course, here people have discussed various issues and groups, disability, road projects, etc. There are all the cases that concern many, but there is a relatively large group, children with a different language from English and children of foreign origin, this is a group that will likely grow up to another tens of thousands. There is reason to view only the challenges facing this group. Wherever you look, whether you look at language at the time of high school, the success of reading skills in high school, or the withdrawal of high school, it seems that as a community you have not been able to create an environment that is nourishing enough, these individuals can come into life as well - fed as other people of the same age. While this financial bill can be found on these issues, in view of the extent of the challenge in the media, there may actually be a considerable higher amount of time spent discussing those issues than there have been in the past. Since this is a seminar of the Ministry of Education, which is a conglomerate. paritaprevir Willum Þór, who is here in the hall, I would like to direct to him some comments - since she's not here that I also didn't ask, so it's normal - that could be remembered when the top line came in. Education Ministers prioritize their seminars. On page 18. 349 is close to anything you might think would fit. There is a target of No. 4, children's status with another mother tongue, and there are two measures, a) working after a Congress resolution on the implementation of an immigrant strategy in cooperation with rural society; b) presenting and implementing a consistent guide for mother-to-mother teaching at the level of play, core, and high school. There are some interesting actions, motivations, education, conflict, and this, but I still think, so that there are some things, that there are pillars. I'm going to give you two people who are in need of concrete. The rural population, including The group I have the privilege of serving as a rural government, which said to Reykjavík, has done their part and tried somehow to respond to the fact that this group does not seem to receive enough encouragement and nutrition during study, e.g. to strengthen support and hire more people at school, where the percentage of students of foreign lands is high. However, there are certain things that rural society cannot do because it simply is not within their reach or is not obliged to do according to law. I'll name these two things. First, it is really a university education, a special education. In view of the fact that the group in question, as I say, is up to 20,000 students, it is tangible that there is no way to study in Iceland, e.g. At a master's level, where people are particularly educated in helping, i.e. To teach English as a second language or to teach to children who do not have a language in English. Depending on the size of the group, it is strange, and it is bad in that even if certain societies or others working on these issues have, for example. The ambition of recruiting many people to help this group better is not there for the experts. If we say that a few thousand students need several hundred teachers, that number is by no means available for advertising, education, and advice. It's one thing. Another item is a lack of study material for children with a language other than English. For two reasons, I don't feel that there are enough study material. First, a good study of the Bible is an important guide for teachers, since not all their children have knowledge to educate children with a language different from English, but teaching material can help in every classroom in the country. Another thing that matters, and I think a matter of a particular texture is that if more were to happen, for example. a project made by making konkoptized books with coats, beautiful pictures, and all, perhaps the group that this teaching aims to feel as if it had been more impressed by the fact that they have come to this country. It is quite unusual to have everything in some kind of photocopy that teachers have tried to help them cope with the needs of the people. I think it would be a good idea if we were going to fail. There is a subject of education to the State. I'm not necessarily calling for the government to bait itself and personally for designing the study material and printing out books. I have not necessarily felt that way, but because there are always billions of people in all discussions, there are 2 billion, 5 billion there, and there, it is that the fund that is responsible for strengthening a lesson that is not published by the public, this narrowest government, is a growing fund of study aids, and it was distributed to 52 million in the last year. They were mostly small tasks, not of the magnitude of publishing a textbook. I think it would be wise for the minister to better establish his priorities within his own group. I'm not necessarily calling for additional expenses, but just better priorities within a group of paintings. Some areas could be contained and then added only to this fund, making it a competitive fund, creating some kind of duckbed in which you might be able to strengthen projects of the size range of 101⁄220 million. I don't think it's gonna take a lot of money, but it needs the attention of the government, and I think I have a shortage of money. I'm not going to extend the discussion much more because I think this is really the two most important things and the two things I'm going to leave at the Council and at the Top of the Council. A government if it's looking at me on the computer somewhere. Some weeks ago, the entire city of Reykjavík was united when a proposal was made to improve the effectiveness of children of foreign origin. The city government of Reykjavík has taken immediate action to address the factors that Reykjavíkurburg can perform itself, i.e. to increase support in classrooms and look into their reasons for doing so, e.g. that children with a language other than Icelandic may be less alert to social, childhood, and sports activities. It is this thing that comes to the State, its supporting services, and that I mention first of all, that the university system is teaching teachers who are specialized in teaching children with a different mother tongue, and that they will be prepared for a proper study course for this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u97	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek for speaking. It should not be surprising how he speaks, how he comes from a different direction, and with a friend who is not part of the discussion. For that I want to thank you, and that is what makes this discussion as useful as it really is, that there's really good talks and tips. I'm not gonna replace the highest. A minister of education in these matters, but I think this is a thing that we need to take better care of. A senator who works at the state level realizes, and actually crossed here, that there is an overlap between stairs. It's not a coincidence that this is up to them in the budget bill because we're closer to the kids in the basic schools in this regard. Hv. A senator certainly introduced a need for higher education and university levels. I find an indication of the need for study fund and will definitely convey that recommendation to the highest degree. Minister. I'd also like to point out that this applies to other fields, such as sports and youth and hobbies. The majority of sports activity, free partners and members of the community, is expressed in the opinion of the greater part, and is driven largely by volunteer work. But it is emphasised on paying for the participation of foreign - language children. [[The president calls.]] I know the importance of sports, as well as in school.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u98	A respectable president. I thank you very much for the answer, even though I may not have read a clear question from it. Still, it is a joy to have these exchanges of words. I want to mention two things in this context, first of all, about childhood and sports work - and then I'm going to redirect into the discussion of priorities of projects when it comes to this - I think that I think too much enthusiasm is involved in the participation of children with other mother languages than the Icelandic sports team for information, i.e. that our image that why children of a foreign background do not participate in sports is that they do not know it in some way. That's not quite my experience. In many cases when I have spoken with parents or children who have been floundering from sports jobs, they have begun sports and then stopped. Often these are children who practiced the particular sport at home, but something in the environment has made them feel that they have not remained in the work here. I'm just going back to the discussion that if we put emphasis on this group and put money in it, we would also think about what the law and we could do to ourselves rather than simply try to encourage people because they don't have much money if they don't stay in there. The other thing that I'd like to take only with regard to the idea that the Ministry would manipulate itself and raise the fund of evolution. I think such edification would be good, that people would sometimes just shrink somewhere and put a little more into society, too, because this is the way it grows more than when people always expand. Then there is a small incentive to think things over again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this conversation. I didn't leave a question, so I was primarily giving a what. A senator's chance to come back here, discuss the matter further and share his experience and knowledge of this. I've only been through high school, at the same time. I think there's a very interesting point. For a period of time when young ones engage in activities of leisure, sports, or music, as well as in other activities. I think that over a period of time, all children will have something else, something else that will be the way, the encouragement will go somehow, and it is extremely important to all who come in, and much less to parents and to those who are teaching their children to help them develop and keep their interest. That's my experience in this subject. I wondered, " Is this not totally independent of nationality? ' Of course, the language may be a distraction. I can't really say, but that's really not my experience. I just mention thanks for the tips on this show.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u100	A respectable president. I just want to keep sharing from the parole bank. I have experienced that in some cases the language is a particular obstacle but not always the way we realize it. I have, for example. heard of kids who quit sports because they're not good enough in English. The coach has been English-speaking, but these kids haven't come into the country with exactly the same English background. It may be harder for people to realize this because our emphasis on Icelandic science is so great that we forget that in reality, the English is often an enormous part of being rotten in Icelandic society. I remember once translating the Polish tour of what it was like to live here. There was one open question about which single thing would improve the lives of the individual in Iceland most. The most common answer was: better English. That's what people experienced as the single factor that would improve their lives in Iceland, knowing their English, perhaps because more often than not, this is the language that is directed to people when they are of foreign origin. I wanted to pray at the end. The senator again directed the two requests to his coworker, the highest. Education and Culture Minister, that two things would be necessary if we were to be able to serve this group well, first of all, to promote university education with emphasis on the education of children with another language, and second, to make a quick version of the study material for this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u101	Mr. President. There are two things that I would like to introduce only now that the discussion has ended. Other concerns about the income side of the bill, particularly the implementation of tax payments, the collecting of taxes, the paying and the importance of the bill, when it comes to the trust of the state fund. Then I want to establish the data of the bill and its copy, which is mentioned only in the members of the rest of the section. It is important that the application and collecting of taxes be efficient and reliable. The use of taxes is based on the majority of the number of retailed individuals and legislators and employment drivers' licenses on the possession and collected taxes. As we know, the fact is that in too many people there is a tendency to get free from taxpayers and deposits. Studies conducted in recent decades suggest that tax ahead could be 4◯6% of GDP, and the tax authorities have also made surveys leading to those findings. The product of tax return is thought to reduce the income of the state and the rural community by up to 80 billion dollars. Clearly, such alienation and loss of income from public sources are significant. It is very important to seek ways to reduce tax reimbursement by any means available The central category is moving a change proposal to the budget bill that will be supported by a fight against social security. There is a lesion in an Icelandic society that costs a substantial amount of money to society every year. The main tool for ensuring better collections and paying taxes is efficient, quick and reliable legislation that ensures that the effectiveness of taxpayers is most consistent with the modern financial situation. It's coming even. published by the Government Accounting on the budget bill. There is good reason for the lawgiver to consider whether he needs to shape new rules that could prevent tax from being avoided. It is also of interest to note that more than 25% of the law doesn't pass tax returns on time, so it is subject to the taxpayer's programme. In the case of so many tax companies, the projections for which government management must be surmounted by a considerable amount of taxpayers being calculated too high. Therefore, there is a very important and full reason to look for any means that the state's income base is the right thing to do. Re-evaluation is now a report to the General on which ways are used to set up the standard payment regulations and a more efficient merit supplementary tax. It will be interesting, Mr. President, to see the results of the report and the expected suggestions in that subject. I'd like to next step only to what is stated in the Committee study the more part under the statistical presentation of the bill and a copy of it. This is a very good, very useful chapter that most of the item has entered the Committee opinion, and I welcome it. I agree completely with what it says, but not so. The majority of the data in the bill, says, is that there are a number of confusing data and a need to correct the format of a source, a text-engineering of a unique topic field, and disintegration of a follow-up with the bill. I'll take it, as I said before, with my whole mind on it. It is of utmost importance for members of the Parliament and members of the budget that these things are all right. It should not be a complicated matter that mine knows to improve the situation. Some people have mentioned in their comments to the budget that this has to be added. I'd like to quote only the information about this particular point in the United States, which says that the bill is most omniscient, and that's what we're talking about. In this way, contributions to the seminary are not being attributed to individual institutions. That, of course, is shocking. Then it says in this regard about nursing and nursing homes: Then it is impossible to understand the number of spaces, or days, that are behind the productions of the aging plants and the expenses. - Of course, it's shocking for these people. Because of this, it is difficult to determine whether there is an adequate increase in nursing weight or how contributions are made to individual institutions. Finally, the review states: ▪ It would be a great improvement that in front of a budget bill a list of institutions in each topic field and how contributions are used. I'll agree with that. The members of the greater section combine the committee with several details in this regard. These include a review of the format of the index, with the aim of clarifying and simplifying the presentation. To accomplish this, you may need to make adjustments. A bill package will be far more comprehensive than currently available and will thus be more able to trace the financial resources of individual Member States, partners and autodiversaries. So here's the copy I mentioned, and we're talking about. So when you turn to it, you see that making a simple change would be a great improvement, e.g. Special chapters, subscriptions, state institutions. It's all kind of, like, sort of, sort of, you know, you know, you know, it's kind of like, you know, you know, you know, you know, it's kind of like... you know, you know, you know, you It also discusses that recurrences and their need will be greatly reduced in the captions of individual causes and categories. It will be looked forward to explaining primarily the changes in total expenditures and releasing as possible explain according to economic exchange. The focus of the bill text should consist of detailed explanations of a so - called budget bridge published for each topic field. Up to now, explanations have been too tight and more often, but do not add to the spot, which shows changes in frames between years. I'm glad the committee is complete behind those comments. I trust that the chairman of the Committee would present them so that the next time we discuss a bill for financial management, probably before 2020, it will have been reprobated to make it more efficient and more transparent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u102	V.E.G. President. I'm beginning to feel like this conversation, so I'm not coming up straight. I still wanted to come up here and thank you. A senator for highlighting what we can say is in the form of the matter. Of course, the discussion has been mostly on the subject of the bill, but it is important to discuss the form and for what it is. Congress and anyone who wants to learn the subject of the budget bill is to do so in a clear way. It's a monopoly on the Committee to do that. Thank you. Þórarinsson And I can confirm that I am very determined that we will be successful in changing this and fixing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u103	Thank you. A senator resists. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has discussed this before and agrees fully on the need to sharpen the format and make the document all available and more comfortable reading so that members of Congress can better understand the details, the comparisons between years, and so on. as it comes to various government institutions. Again and again, I rejoice that this has come to pass and that the Chairman is interested in the matter. Of course, this is very important. It's just gonna be really exciting to see the next bill where hopefully these comments will be taken into account as much as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u104	V.E.G. President. We're here at the end of 2nd. A budget that's been going on since Thursday for three days. I have to say, the discussion has been helpful. She's been good. Congress officials have made good use of the time to both criticize and speak for their own suggestions. I'd like to mention the last speeches. paritaprevir Paul Bartoszeks. He made a very interesting point of the budget and shed light on the position of children with a language different from that of Icelandic and asked me to make it known to the highest level. So to mark it properly here, I'm going to say it in a speech chair, to promote university education for this group, and to make a quick version of the study material. Hv. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, Elíasdóttir of Elias, had a rather interesting settlement on the budget bill in his speech. Earlier today, there was a why. paritaprevir With a very extensive speech, Oddný Harðardóttir put in her speech a great deal of appreciation for the status of children. Is it appropriate on a global baby day? I'm just going to put together the material things, the highest. President, the big picture in the budget bill has not changed, the main outcome, i.e. that the changes we talk about are all less than 1% of the total causes of heartburn, if we can say so. In the case of the economic leaders of the bill, we were all experiencing that change from June through November 2 issue. the bill that reduced, that is the limit of GDP. It's new, compared with the avoidance, it's more likely to experience 0.2 percentage points. That's not much, it's predicted 2.5% interest instead of 2.7%, which really doesn't have a lot of effect. There is then June's consumer price index 2.9%, but there is 3.6%, including with a lower incidence. This is mainly the effect of the inflation predictions that reevaluate income and fees. It is true that we are not facing a significant change in economic leadership. We still have economic growth. " It is important to keep it in place, and it is also important that economic growth be observed in the front of this year was far more powerful than what the Habitat predicted. The June prophecy was 2.9%, but the November 3.8%, i.e. The 2018 prophecy. Since the value of money is unchanged, we are coming from a more powerful economy than we anticipated. If we look at it, we are likely to succeed, of course, in making smooth economic landings. So it is in the sense that we are improving our expenses at this time. On the other hand, I feel that it is the most important criticism to take into account when we consider and appreciate the cost development for the next year. In recent years, the Kingdom budget has increased greatly and will not necessarily be our means to maintain similar increases in the future, including some of them. Because when economic growth declines, and so over the years, we need to promote much of what we call reassessments and priorities and consider the sector's revenue systems in context. Big movie, highest. President, holding on to this bill. The changes we have discussed here effectively do not really change the overall picture, of strengthening the interiors of society, of continuing our building up of the largest social systems, health, welfare, education, transportation, and climate. All of this has been very much discussed in this discussion. The contributions to these classes are greatly increased. These include increased unemployment rates and high peaks in maternity. For the first time, we can see that the policy of the State Policy is engraved on stone. We are experiencing what laws on public financial matters really mean. It is all about keeping to these goals. Certain discipline is involved, i.e. the 1% left of GDP targeted. It continues to pay off debt, and we go to 30% posts next year. This is the state of the state's budget after a continuous economy is more solid now than for years, and I'd like to say that that that remains the wise course of the past few years. Then I'm talking about paying off debts. The range has been created by the infrastructure, which, of course, is what we're looking at in this bill. I was going to thank everyone first and foremost. Congress members who participated in very upbuilding talks, the necessary criticism, and the conversation that I consider to be of great benefit to us on the subject. The budget and the council and the future in the important matters that are certainly needed at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u105	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes to bill to legalize the product charge of vehicles, fuels, car bills and credit laws, on decks. 473. The majority of the committees refer to the Committee's opinion of the 2nd discussed, that is on the subject. 359. That's where we even came from. to allow the committee to take a closer look at how to set up the payload of vehicles that will be brought in from the screening of the bill to next year's events and have registered carbon dioxide emissions under the European driving cycle and have a consistent test method. The majority of it is the preferred source for the legislator to look for the best possible response to any technical and functional situation. This is especially true when consumers and business interests are involved. There is strong evidence that vehicle measured by the European driving cycle and the validated test method achieves an average of 9.6% higher reported carbon dioxide release than vehicle measured only by the European driving cycle. This is failed in the bill with a system change in vehicle product charge, and is intended for the change to take effect at the end of the year. However, the import of vehicles as measured by both methods has already begun and therefore has higher documented emissions. Unchangedly, the sale prices of these vehicles are expected to rise in many cases, and in fact, such increases will have already occurred. It may be expected that the rise will be temporary and resolve as the system modification of the product burden takes effect by the next year. For technical reasons, it seems clear that this system modification can only take effect after being submitted. Therefore, the main reasons against the temporary situation have been that such reactions require manual action instead of electronic equipment that puts a high risk of significant delay in paying toll. However, in view of the greater part, a temporary increase in sales prices is very undesirable with the interests of consumers and commercial vehicles. Considering the short duration of the year and the number of imported vehicles programmes indicate that the size may be manageable, the majority of the remaining components are non-inferior to responding to the signals received from the Carchemistry and related to the above factors. In view of this, the larger portion contributes to a change in paragraphs 4 and 5. the bill requiring that until the yearend the stated carbon dioxide use should be reduced by both the European driving cycle and the standard test method by 8.8% prior to product stress. In this case, the 9.6% mean difference that appears to be between vehicles with only documented releases on the European driving cycle and driving vehicles which have reported releases on both the European driving cycle and the standard test method did not provide the basis for higher sales of vehicles. In view of the pressures in which this adjustment is made, especially if you take into account the rate of importing vehicles in the past year, there will be a certain risk of performing a reduced number of documented carbon dioxide emissions for the stress of the product tax in a sensitive period of time. Therefore, it is not a last resort that the interests of immigrants call for a faster stress than can be done by hand. Under such circumstances, it may be normal for the initial application of a product to occur without any initial reduction, but it will be calculated after the event and the difference in the amount of cash prior to and after a reduction will be reimbursed. If this situation occurs, an immigrant will have the right to reimburse on the basis of Article 27. track No. 29/1993, compare with 125. August), No. 88/2005. However, since such a approach can be expected to be used primarily in view of the interests of immigrants of quick stress, it is not reasonable to assume that the level of payment will be raised unless it becomes a significant delay in its implementation. For this reason, the greater part is suggested to make a clear payment according to Article 125. August), No. 88/2005, and the reimbursement level is growing from April 1, 2018. Mr. President. According to the above and by the committee opinion, the adjustments I have made are followed by the suggestions I have made in this article, which are addressed in the paragraph under the heading of this publication. Óli, the Björn of Kárason, the daughter of Hammira, the daughter of Þorsteinn, Brubbur the Víglundsson of Níelsson, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Bordi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We representatives of the Economic and Business Committee did not take up the debate on the price charges and emissions of carbon dioxide in relation to the environment or the highest policy. The government of the environment, but maybe we should have given ourselves more time to do so. In this country, governments have begun to reduce the cost of electric cars, metal cars, and tweets but have not yet, but have sought to raise the cost of car spending. However, this has been done and done well by the Norwegian government. It is obvious that there is a 50% reduction in emissions from road transport to 2030, and this will only be done if electric cars and metal cars are at competitive price for consumers and regular cars of the same size will be at least as expensive as an eco-friendly car. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he does not consider it necessary to put in some such impulse and whether the use of goods may be possible in order to reduce the motivation to import contaminated cars. Should we have considered the bill that we now have in that context, or can we bring it at a later stage that would have something like this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u107	Mr. President. Of course, the reason why this bill is here for the treatment is that we are preventing cars from temporarily increasing because of new methods of calculating emissions that are then based on products. The answer to the question, " Am I a spokesman for simply raising the cost of regular cars? ' Harðardóttir It's just no. I think that's exactly what we have under these circumstances, that it's not practical. I think it would be a kind of a penal tax or a penalty, especially in the country. While inside the country, I don't think that's something I don't like. Instead, we are to promote renewal because the cars that are coming to the country that are being powered by traditional fuels are much more efficient than older cars. Therefore, this bill achieves the goal of building on the one hand in preventing the temporary rise in cars, affecting consumer credit rates and thus the borrowing of citizens, and warning against the use of product charges in the process of raising prices on conventional cars. I would think of it as a special stress in the country compared to the infrastructure we haven't completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u108	Mr. President. I agree that we have to improve the infrastructure to reduce the trouble of being on electric cars and good cars for the environment. But is it not the policy of the government to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from road transport? It can't be the policy to increase it. Hv. A senator does not want to use his product with some impulse, which includes the price of highly polluted cars. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator: What does he think is the best way to do so? A government will achieve the goals as well as the international commitments that we have already signed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u109	It's not as if there's not been a push under an entombed car with a demolition of warehouses and rafts. so you are taking steps in that direction. I want less of it. The senator is supposed to have the new cars coming here, of course, to be very environmental if we can use that word, but old cars. In effect, we might turn the problem around and wonder: " If that's the way we're going to get serious, are we not going to consider that the state just buys out all the cars that are over five years old and spend as much as they do with old diesels and gas machines that may pollute even half as much as new cars? There would be an incentive for me to talk about. I'd like to think about it well, although I haven't thought it all over yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u110	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for history. The 2nd. I asked why. A member of the council whether ancient cars fell under that change and if they would not remain under the price of a car. Hv. A senator explained that there would be a discussion on the committee and that it would be good to have it presented here now as to what the conclusion was about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer is a great help to remind me of this because I had promised myself that in my history to a committee party. After investigating the case at the Ministry, as well as the case investigated by the Directorate of the Economic and Business Committee, the answer is very simple: there is no change when it comes to ancient cars. Hv. So a senator can regain his joy. I was worried that this situation was being changed, but it's wrong, and let's celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer is glad to know that this is clear. I know that every country in the country is going to be a cause for celebration. I want to thank you. A senator for carefully examining the matter and doing so professionally. I welcome this conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u113	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to legalize the law on the extra income of state funds, No. 88/1191, i.e. 472. The committee discussed the matter and met with members of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the head of state taxation, the firms of industry, and received some talks and comments. The bill suggests the rise of a number of remunerations in the budget in accordance with the development of prices, but most of these remunerations have remained unchanged since 2010. Because of this, the percentage increase is considerable, but since the beginning of 2010, the index of consumer prices has increased by nearly 30% and the index of pay by more than 70%. The bill suggests that almost all legal fees will be transferred to the end-of-the-year period compared to the estimated level of consumer consumption rate in December. The bill's report shows that the increase results in a total of 500 million. K. extra cash in the state funds for the coming year. The greatest increase in judicial fees is 180 million and increases pay for several proofs and licenses to return 125 million. You should point out that the Committee sent a financial and economic inquiry to a number of teams about the bill. In the ministry's answer, there's even one. until the analysis of the costs of services and payment has not been made for every single currency in the extra income Act. Word is, by permission of Mr. President: In terms of the Ministry's assessment, such an analysis would result in a very high cost to be met by an increase in the reported charges. On the other hand, there may be a need for this in specific specific specific fees that weigh heavily on the public. There have been cases of such an analysis, e.g. in connection with passports and driver's licenses. There are no general analyses of the extra income, at least not acutely, but it cannot be excluded that this need will occur at any time. However, these costs need to be weighed against the costs of such analysis and the benefits to come. The Ministry's response also states that there is a more logical increase/depth in each currency in the extra income law on actual increases/depth costs, while up-to-date change rates are considered sufficient to maintain the actual value of currency. On the other hand, it would be normal to go through the law over a period of years with the thought of correcting certain fees for the apparent cost. It is obvious that the public has benefited by not raising the last eight years of the budget laid down by law on the increase in government funds. However, a greater proportion of the committee points out that it is not a good way to raise the cost to the public for government services in the manner being done in the bill. The majority agree with the sector's agreements that the bill is unfortunate, by permission of the President, that it will attack on costs at regular intervals with reference to prices, which includes the longer-term automatic cross-interchange. It is necessary to comply with the principle of reexamination of government services that they reflect the cost of the institutions. This applies equally to increase and reduction. It is thus a matter of justice that the public will enjoy it in a direct way when the costs of institutions fall, including those of the United States. with increased self-activities and electronic services. The majority point to the Ministry of Economics to prepare a review of the law on the increase in the state's budget, with a view to the clear payment of the services provided for services and not tax pay. In addition, the majority of them believe that it is normal to make the requirements for other recruitments and to establish that they support money collected in the appropriate setting. Only on individual factors. According to Leviticus 13. 250,000 should be paid by law on the extra profits of the state's funds. to enrol in foreign partners (outside) or the same amount of money paid for the registration of partner and partner members according to Article 1. A- force 13. The bill is suggested to raise this price to 323,000K. The government taxpayer's review of the bill draws attention to the fact that the cost of foreign registration was in the past much lower. After an increase in registration costs, such registrations have been reduced, but attendances on list of extraspires have increased. The government tax manager points out that an outdoor registry will only include a version of the social security number due to a bank exchange, and a certain problem has been found in monitoring that the social security number published on such grounds is not used for other activities here on the country, in the United States, and in the same way. Furthermore, the government tax manager's review states under word, allowing the president: It should then be noted that for registration in an outdoor registry, there is much less information on the budget than on the standard registration and no obligation to submit annual accounts. The basis for registration in an outdoor registry, therefore, is only the risk assessment of those asking for the registry, such as banks and lawyers. The government tax manager believes that there is a general view of who (outside) foreign partners, without exception a list in this country and how and what conditions they must meet in that relationship, so that they will be less likely to have the overlap mentioned above. In view of the government taxpayer's review, a greater proportion of objects are opposed to the growth proposed to a-arm 13. The bill. In the same way as cohesion measures, increases in b◯e-age 13 will also be prevented. the bill involved in the registration of private and auto-employment institutions, registration of one person or more and registration of part-and private members. Sets the extra part to add 13. The bill will be removed. The majority agree with the government taxpayer that it is necessary to review which foreign societies (outland) should, without exception, a national file. The majority also think that it is necessary that, in addition to the revision of the terms on the increase in GDP, there will be a special consideration for reducing the cost of institutions and registration of enterprises independent of society, and in the context of the registration of the major Icelandic business countries. This results in a greater proportion than 1st Figures 1.mg. 14th par. the extra income laws, which are especially elderly and desperate. Similarly, an increase in the amount of pay required for the publishing of driver's licenses 65 years of age and older is avoided. There is little material evidence that these costs will increase, such an increase in the stated Kingdom aims to protect the interests of the poor and the elderly. So let's put some more of this thing on the 14th floor. The bill for that. According to Article 16. the bill goes up, including expenditures for special services provided by the head of the foreign agency due to the transfer of funds to and from abroad, but the costs vary according to the amount of cross-overs. The majority feel that the concomitant increase in the budget is reasonable and suggests a change in the amount of money. With a memory sheet to the Committee, the Ministry of Economics presented the Ministry of Justice with two changes to the bill. On the one hand, it is suggested that the word be replaced by the districts of 2 mg. Twenty-niner. Let the law come to the courts where the district courts, the National Court, and the Supreme Court collect their dues under the law. However, the memo suggests that a new letter is added to Figure 1. 14th par. The law to show that by publishing passports for refugees and travelers for refugees, follow the 2nd stanzas of the law, as for the publishing of micro-elderly and elderly passports, where there seems to be a lack of pay. The majority agree with these suggestions and suggest changes in this situation. Finally, a greater part contributes to a change in the bill's validation law to gain a value on January 1, 2019. The commission then follows the adjustment proposals that I have considered materially. Under the opinion of the above - mentioned publications, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. The men of the assembly, Ásgerður to K. Gylfadóttir, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u114	A respectable president. The thing we're discussing here may be the most clear example of government wastefulness, that it had been spent so much that now, in fact, it had to shake out of the savings box, there had to be a recalculation of the government's various government fees many years back in time to spend 500 million and then spend them as hard. I find this case to be clear with incredible and absurd, but what I have to admit is that I've always read my ears before. Óli Kárason Kálmson, a senator and executive of this case, speaks of tax issues. I expected this case to be thrown out backwards. I don't really think it's available. What really attracts my attention, and I would like to ask him why. According to a senator, this is actually the basis for a price to reflect the cost of service. The Ministry of Financial Affairs answers the request of the Economic and Business Committee that no review of these charges would have been performed, not at the least attempted to do so, and that the Ministry would not count it as a cost. Then you ask: Is the principle in this context too expensive, according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs? Got it. Is this acceptable position taken by a member of the Ministry? When I ponder over the huge number of costs suggested here to be increased even considerably without any real analysis behind how the cost has developed in many cases, I doubt, for example. not that significant technological development in the years since these expenditures were last revised has even resulted in reductions in the service rendered. Got it. Is this acceptable logic supported by a member of the Ministry? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u115	Mr. President. I think it has made it clear in my introduction to the Commission that more part of the Economic and Business Committee feels that the decision to make more money is not being made and the change in the money fund's revenues in the best way it should be chosen. Therefore, we propose to the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs that there will be a total review of the law, including to perform the cost analysis. Without my knowledge, I think we're here to collect fees that are under expenses and there's probably some other fees. I also think it is relevant that these legislations are reimbursed to ensure that, for example, once introduced here. An electronic government service that is practical for the ministry is a guarantee that, in time, those who use the ministry will be able to enjoy it. I think we'll see in time and, for example, we'll see. An electronic synod will be a principle that, in fact, costs very much to get on the ground, one will see it. But the oatmeal is absolutely correct. A senator can agree that it is not a good way to have just a pure index increase. True, we can say that the people enjoyed it. For eight years, no increase has been seen in most of these rates. It's been enjoyed, and then some day it's payback. It would have been more prudent to have an analysis, and it's happened, though. Senator, including When it comes to publishing passports. [[The president calls.]] Wrong as hell. A senator says there was no diagnosis.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I was referring to what is discussed here. It is true that there has been a special analysis at the expense of passports, but here we are talking about a somewhat handsome list of public fees and the Ministry itself has acknowledged that there has been no analysis at the expense of the services provided. There I would have thought that it would be much wiser, instead of respectfully contradicting this in the majority wing of the committee, to reinvest the Ministry simply with these increases, saying: "Would you not want to detect this cost and support the increase in need of something other than just an indicator reference? Like I know what to do. A senator is well - aware of his own experience, and most of the companies do not have business with some kind of index insurance on their income. It is called business growth that prices tend to increase considerably less than the overall price in the private sector, at least ... sinceI knowhowto. What beats me, and it'd be nice to hear your opinion. The senator's job is, we've got a deposit here for a private partner that I'm kind of cross-bordered to look at. The minimum share in a private partner is 500,000 bucks. And for its registration, the state takes 124,000; it seems to me as soon as possible a quarter of the deposited stocks. The head of the state taxpayer will likely have to register that one ten such companies are needed to cover their pay expenses and the cost of a month. I don't think they're asking for much action. I doubt that the cost of this registration is anywhere near this amount, and in fact, most of the other countries seem three or four times more expensive than the rest of the North countries. I know there's a pack down there. A senator has not seen any admiration for taxation in those excellent lands. [[The president calls.]] I think we can agree on that, huh? A senator, who is being overcrowded, and a clear example showing that there are overworks in many cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u117	The treasure doesn't have any friends.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u118	Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, a taxpayer, has few friends than he has at least A few. I think we can quite agree, as I said earlier, that it's not a good idea to do this in this way. But I'm not going to have any fun with the devil or what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson with something just to send the bill back. Hv. A senator could have suggested that, either in a moment. The Economic and Business Committee, or Hall of Congress, to dismiss the bill. That would have been wise, and then we could have dealt with it materially. When it comes to registration of partnerships, it is just one example that more than a part of the Economic and Business Committee refers to the need to reevaluate the overall costs of private partner registration, private partnerships, etc. In other words, it is especially intended to reduce the cost of an enterprise independent of our associations and that we aim for what is going on and what is happening in our competitive countries. That's the goal. That analysis work then takes place, and more than one part of the Economic and Business Committee is completely compatible with the head of the state tax. I hope so. A senator joins us next year when we complete our assignment. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u119	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u120	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. I think this bill is very unfortunate into the conditions in Icelandic economy. We see rising inflation and difficult agreements ahead, and then the government comes forward and raises a number of fees and licenses far beyond the actual cost. As a result, the index of consumer prices goes up, our loans rise, and our inflation rises. To me, this is a very unwise arrangement, and I am surprised by the government's taking the lead in this way. I want to roll it up and ask why. A member of the council is not convinced that this provision is very unfortunate into future dress interviews, which everyone realizes to be difficult, and whether he even foresees that some of the growths that are more severe on certain sides will be drawn back in the coming big talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u121	Mr. President. I myself feel so strongly that I believe that the one making use of service pays for it. This is true of the services covered by the extra incomes of the state's funds. I'm not talking about education, I'm not talking about the health system or anything like that. I don't think it's unusual for all the public to pay, e.g. the actual cost of leaving passports, the actual cost of registration of partner organisations, etc. I think it's unnatural that the fee paid for reimbursement of a partner is somehow paid by other taxpayers. I'll think about it. A senator agrees with me in this regard. It is true, however, that the methodology of just increasing over the line by index is bad. She needs to be changed. It's actually even worse because it's gone so far back in time as it really is, i.e. As I reasoned in a talk earlier, the cost has remained the same for eight years. On the other hand, at the same time, the public has been allowed to enjoy the remainder of pay. That's what's positive. But we also need to keep in mind that there may be more and more things that are important to people in the United States than to remunerations under the underdevelopment laws. There are other factors and larger than these. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I would like to say that such elevations are of great importance to the public and especially to those who have little to do with their hands. Hv. A senator made it clear that the cost of providing a particular service or giving out a permission slip, etc., is to be paid to the public, but we have not yet received a proper analysis of the real cost. Hv. One senator mentioned that the cost of publishing passports has been examined, but there is only one aspect of it in which many people are involved. That's not a proper approach. A senator making this up because there are not many cases in the bill, many of its teams, which is the real cost. I am absolutely certain that these increases are often at a high level of actual cost for certain joints. Hv. A senator also noted that there have not been increases during the past eight years. That's all right. But then you ask yourself: " Was this the right time to address the matter in the future of dress talks that are going to be very difficult, as I mentioned earlier? I can see that the government should carefully consider whether this has not been a result of bad talk into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u123	Mr. President. It's true that you're right next to what you're talking about. paritaprevir One way or another, the challenge of Birgir's Þórarinsson is that of paying the additional fees of the state's funds to touch all the public and lay down on those who have, at least, gained weight. That's exactly why most of the Economic and Business Committee rejects it. It does not often occur that the majority of the committee rejects a suggestion for an increase, e.g. Necessary passports and elderly drivers to senior citizens. There's a clue to this. Then it is obvious that when more part of the Economic and Business Committee also declines the proposal for a considerable increase in fees due to the registration of enterprises, whether it's partners or private enterprises or private firms, it's a certain message. I don't think there are many examples of such a thing. The rest of it is different, and I agree with it. A senator, that it is made clear in the majority of the financial and business committees to change the tactics of the budget. But I am also convinced that many of the fees being paid are far below the expense of that service. If we are going to take the step in determining everything and paying the cost after expenses, we may find a little more. [[The president calls.]] There is a very specific debate about whether we should have the cost as our main factor or another methodology. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u124	Mr. President. I'm here representing my share of the Economic and Business Committee. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy had a road and problem with this committee opinion, but he's busy with other activities on the council tonight, and that's why I'm taking the responsibility to give the committee opinion, which is why I'm signing and signing. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. The minority criticizes the arrangement that has been covered on the increased state funds over the past few decades, that charges are set in accordance with the needs of the government funds at any given time, but this leaves aside the rule that charges reflect the State's cost of rendering services that are not considered inevitable and necessary. The problems involved are many and turn to real tax burden on the public, particularly the most efficient individuals, the discouraging economic incentives affecting industry, the opportunistic costs that reduce the economy, as well as the administrative opinions of whether it can be used to earn money for state funds. As expenses increase, negative economic incentives develop, where the public and the business seek to avoid paying fees that are often much higher than in moderation. In some cases, it will be a snout of the law, but in other cases simply by releasing projects that may require extra expenses. Conventional economic analysis suggests that the prices of the consumers with government services are in some cases significant, but in other cases little or none. The cost of an Icelandic economy is late appreciated for money, but it also needs to consider Iceland's competitiveness in the international partnership, where both foreign and domestic sources have increased opportunities to extend their services to various types of people beyond those of landstones. At the same time, the cost of government service is equal to those who make use of the ministry regardless of their circumstances. On this basis, various services have been criticized previously, considering that the majority of the expenses of the required service should be paid by taxpaying the tax, which is widely reported. However, the trend over the past few decades has been to reduce taxes gradually, particularly on the highest income of individuals in the community, as well as to keep personal interest in in inflation and thus to reflect on the increase in citizens'expenses. The association of these measures has greatly reduced the natural potential of most Icelanders, even in times when commercial power has increased. The provision of high payings prescribed in the laws on the added funds causes both economic and social damage. Therefore, it is essential that the Council reviews all the additional financial and social interests of the State. Although there are many high - cost groups, it is good to look at a realistic example of how the present system of things brings an opportunistic cost to the economy. The cost of the new registration enterprise is quite serious; it acts as a discouraging, and even inhibiting, many that might consider going into business. Although the amount is actually small in the context of a business, this gives rise to the excessive financial resources to be kept under the hands of an enterprise. If standing, no one should be reluctant to register for expenses. This arrangement produces a variety of side effects, e.g. It tends to work longer before an enterprise is established. This reduces the likelihood that spherical companies are registered in the early stages of the operation, which in turn reduces the capacity of the State to monitor the development of employment and innovation, and the font of small companies, many of which contain a good idea and none other than a few laptops, from going into business. The defected system also creates markets for the commercial and sales companies, even with unsupervised public fees, reducing transparency and can create problems with social security. If other European countries are examined in this context, e.g. as much as 12 ststerling spd to record a company in Britain and 10 euros in Germany, however, depending on the amount of stocks. In contrast with other countries, there is a bit of a complexity in which not all countries have a comparable system, and sometimes there are complications. The table published in the panel of the memory of the object is based on the average registration value of enterprises, as appropriate, and always some type of private partner value such as LTD, LLC, and similar. If you have an Icelandic crown, the price is $100. in Denmark and China, in the United States, it costs 9,500, in Norway 11,100 K., in Sweden 24,000 K., Finland 44,400 K., but in Iceland, to name just a few. More cases are published in the committee's opinion. The scope of services is not merely a concern over competitive grounds and market leaders. According to a report on the right to take taxes and services from February 1999, there is a difference between taxes and services in the requirements to be met. It says: "The score will be according to the 77th Psalm. The Constitution, compare Article 15. Constitution, No. 97/1995, by law and must not be entrusted with a government decision on whether to pay taxes, to change, or to eliminate it, to be dismissed, as referred to in the 40th chapter. The constitution that says taxes are not to be imposed by law. Later in the same report, we read that taxes were defined as payment, usually paid by groups of individuals or lawyers, must be paid to the public under the one - sided decision of the State by general, material standards, and without a special exchange from the government, to be paid for public service of various kinds. When a certain service is given in return, i.e. that there is a special price to be paid against the fee is considered to be tax, not tax, but services, and costs at the expense that generally comes from providing that service is to be done or part of it. From these words, the Commission concluded that a license to take a service fee, not an taxation authority, leads to the legal principle that if it pays no more than what the work or service in general costs. This conclusion is based on the Commission. the opinion of the Generalist of 1992, stressing the importance of paying taxes beyond costs, can only be available if the Lawgiver's will has been in charge of taxation rather than recovery at the cost of government institutions due to services. A paper with a bill to the current 1991 substantial law on the increase in state funds shows that the approach there reflects this distinction between taxes and fees, which, by permission of Presidents, reflects increases in various other fees, i.e. The actual extra income, in general, can be said that services are intended to be sold in increasing numbers according to cost. Thus, the development of currency in the increased state funds over the past decades since the sentence of the total 1991 total law has been based on slow and even unwitted elimination from the ideal guidelines that services should meet the costs of services, while other government incomes should be made in the form of taxes. In some cases, the technological revolution has reached the control system to a sufficient extent that the actual cost of services has actually been reduced in the past few decades, but it has all been left in the state. The Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asked a couple of teams for the bill, but the Ministry's answer comes in. until the analysis of the cost of services and its payment for each individual fee in the law on the extra pay of state funds has been completed. They say, however, that it would be normal to go through the law over a period of years with the intention of correcting certain fees for the apparent cost increases. Nowhere in the Ministry's reply is there any attention to potential cost reductions, and it is noted by the Ministry's response that cost reductions are considered possible over the head The less part agrees with the sectoral organizations that refer to the bill that it is inappropriate for such a shift of costs at regular intervals, with reference to the price increase, to the long - term automatic reverse process. The impact on prices in the long term will not change whether high prices occur every year or at longer intervals. Rather, it should be considered that the extra income of the state's funds should change as few as an increase, and only to the extent that it has not been managed to save through technological change at any given time, but that a steady currency is in a way a State's contribution to economic stability in a larger context. President. The smaller section agrees with the greater need to revise the terms of additional funds, but it believes that the review should cover all aspects of the law in the light of the above evidence, not just those involved in the integration of enterprises. The smaller section also agrees with the conclusion of the majority of the factors that conflict with certain increases with reference to lack of material evidence for growth and, in some cases, strong material evidence is there. On the other hand, the smaller part believes that the larger part is not going far enough with its changes, as are the extra incomes of the state funds, as has been explained, long gone out of control over its original objective, controlled restrictions on reimbursement and reasonable economic management, ideas on positive economic motivations, and fairness towards citizens. It appears that the objective of the government with its proposal was to achieve 500 million. K. in the form of additional revenues to stem into the budget of the state rather than make appropriate changes in the tax system or cut down. In view of all of these factors, the less part is suggested to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-20-34.u125	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the law on the extra income of the state's budget, No. 88/1991. As we have seen, both the less and the greater part of the Economic and Business Committees have been identified. I sign the opinion of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee and therefore agree with what it says, but I thought it was a reason to come up here and discuss just a few factors. Of course, I can say in terms of my share, but I still think it's important to keep it to myself, because I don't generally like to be promoted or paid by the state funds, that there is an increase in expenses that have been unchanged in the budget since 2010, despite the fact that at this time the price of consumption has increased by 30% and the billing number by more than 70%. It is reasonable to note that if the pay was at its time at the cost, the price should have increased something in the nine years since they last began to rise, especially in view of the fact that much of this includes the presence of employees whose pay index has increased by more than 70%. Yet, as the committee repeated, I fully agree that there is good reason to determine the cost precisely. I fully understand, as indicated by the Ministry's answer, a respectable president, that it surely takes a considerable amount of time to have an accurate analysis of each team individually. But only in order for people to see what they are talking about are we talking about a price that was once 15,000 going up to 19,000. A fee of 50,000 goes up to 65,000. A payment of 2,000 goes up to 2,500. The $3,850 loan goes up to 5,000. It may be nice to look at the figures too in this context, that these are no enormous sums, for just putting in applications and all kinds of things that, of course, always involve some administrative procedures. So I think it's time to reiterate what is presented in the committee's opinion and opinion. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was very well informed earlier, that more of the Committee will direct it to the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to prepare a review of the law on the increase of state funds, with the view that it will be in accordance with a clear payment of the services of the Agency as a payment for services rather than taxpaying. In addition, the majority of them feel that it is normal to make the requirements for other recruitments and to establish that they support money collected in the appropriate setting. I think it's important to keep this up, especially because I saw the following final words in my committee party, by permission of the president: In view of the above evidence, it is not just what is involved in the integration of enterprises. ▪ The main part agrees with the need to review laws on the increase in wealth, but it believes that the review should cover all aspects of the law, not just those involved. I think that in the members of the greater section, we have just discussed the need to review all the factors subject to the increase in state funds. Then I'd like to reiterate what was shown in the case of our executive, president of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, that we do not agree with the proposal to raise the fees for registration to partners, i.e. a-to E team 13. We suggest that they be removed, as well as counter to the rise in driver's licenses and passports to older citizens and disability. I wanted to talk specifically about the team that has been charged with the credit of a partner's registration. I can say things from the memory of a committee party, and we can. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy has discussed this matter quite significantly. I think we agree pretty much, and I'm sure a lot more, on the importance of having us always provide a good access to the pioneers to start a business. It is simply very important that we look to our competitiveness in this regard and, of course, when the environment of innovation and pioneers is identified in the countries around us and the competitiveness of the countries in this respect is one of the factors to be seen. Whether the information is available on the Internet, if it is possible to access all the information on the Internet, if it needs to be consulted by many persons, or if one person can provide all the information, and so on. It's a few things. I find a very interesting table in the opinion of the object of a review of private partner registration in different countries. It turns out that Iceland's prices are very high, different from countries that are summarised. I think that's a concern, and I intend to use it to look into it further. I'm gonna ask you a question to the highest level. Neomechanical and industrial ministers in these matters. I think it's very important that this information is clear. As mentioned in this article, we may not always be discussing the same area in all the countries, comparing apples and oranges, not apples and apples. I think it's very important to go over this, so we have the information we have exactly what it takes to establish societies in other countries and whether or not any other fees are on top of the amount shown in the table. I took note when I began studying the case online and curious about the costs in other countries that the European Union has a recommendation to its countries, both the European Union and the EFTA countries, is subject to increasing competitiveness in Europe when it comes to innovation and pioneers. Then their recommendation to the countries on easy access is to establish a company application for the registration of an enterprise within three active days, preferably takes no more time than this; there should be only one person who needs to be consulted and it is desirable to have all the information and application forms available on the Internet. In addition, the European Union establishes that it should not cost more than 100 euros to set up a company of $14,000.15,000, which is considerably lower than the amount we watch today, $131,000. I agree completely with what was said in a case. Víglundsson In view of a minimum amount of money to demonstrate to a social institution, the estimated 500,000 is large in this comparison. I believe that there is good reason for further review of this matter, and I have no doubt that we are a number of people at a council who are ready to make a decision in this matter. I intend to take advantage of this information so that it is well controlled and, as a result, that in Iceland we are always very comparable when it comes to an enterprise's innovation environment.
