ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u1	Mr. President. Imagine that you had been raped or that your child had been raped, and it's not fair whether the rapist's sentence will be held or destroyed. All four judges to the land's rights could be made inaccessible by illegal orders. There's no debate about this. The Supreme Court actually judged in December that the Minister of Justice had violated a law against a judge's orders. The Minister of Justice disagrees with the court, but the judgment failed. By the end of January, the European Court judged that judges' orders are unregistered by all those judgments. It was a judgment. Why? Because everyone has the right to adverse, independent, and independent courts. But now in February, in Hick, the Minister of Justice has said that judges whom she appointed could be indebted to him. Then they could be willing and dependent on ministers. It is a violation of our constitution, a violation of the European Convention which was judged by the European Court to be meaningless by such judges. That's why it matters. Let's look at the real world in the situation. Examples of judgments that have occurred since January 1 can be appealed to the National Court: The defendant sentenced to 18 months in prison for repeated violations of his 11 - year - old granddaughter. Will this case be unmarked? The defendants sentenced their three - and - a - half - year prison to rape and sexual abuse against their five - year - old daughter. Will this case be unmarked? The defendant sentenced to two and a half years in prison for rape. Will it be unmarked? [[The president calls.]] The defendant sentenced to five and a half years in prison for attempted murder. This is the real deal. There's a court order in this country. These people, these tenants, they experience the rights as well as all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u2	Mr. President. Sadly, once again, the prevalence of sexual abuse in the community is revealed. I have long shown a keen interest in this struggle, even leading to it. to prevent the spread of serious sexual abuses against children in Iceland. Today, governments have recently introduced a successful campaign against sexual misconduct. However, it has been criticized that measures for fermentation and increased prophylaxis are not sufficiently considered. Five years ago, I was chairman of a group of work that gave me a number of suggestions on these matters. One of the last provisions made by the 2013 government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was to follow along with some of these proposals, including those. Getting ready to buy a new babyhouse. They also ran counter to our proposals for the increase in staff at the Children's House and for the increase in police and district attorneys. Some of the suggestions, however, have not yet penetrated. We recommended that a team of experts be established as a preventive and that the government offer services for those with child support. Especially was this so when it comes to reaching out for individuals who have not yet been guilty but who may be meditating on them. Then the proposals were offered a risk assessment of convicted sexual offenders and that the legislation on which children can serve and care for them would be reviewed. We also provided additional support for the victims of violations and for adult violations, as well as for the improved psychological care of police officers and the proliferation of psychologists and sociologists in prisons. I would like to encourage the current government to consider our suggestions carefully, but many of them still have urgent business and would improve the situation considerably. Mr. President. Few cases are equally urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u3	Mr. President. I don't think anyone in this room should be surprised that I'm an amateur on tax issues. So I noticed that in a report on the current business site, it was noted that from 2007, 267 tax changes were made, on average, 24 per year, no more or less. 200 have been observed to increase, but only 67 to decrease. Of course, it is true that the current business council points out that it is clearly easier for us to raise the budget of companies and individuals than to lower them. It is also clear that when we look at the financial policy ahead of the council, the object of the national cake, the slice itself, is growing. That's a worry. I participated in it both as president of the Economic and Business Committee and as a member of the Council to vote on the tax system changes before the New Year's Eve. It was hard for me. It was hard to raise, e.g. capital tax, although I could argue with it, I did and gave it a vote and supported in the confidence that we were going into a period where we would achieve a fall in the lower levels of the income tax, possibly by the management of the income tax system, I don't talk about lowering the insurance bill lightly. There are promises made and those are promises that I make solemn and that were essential for my participation in voting with an increase in taxes before a New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u4	A respectable president. This morning, a member of the welfare committee came with a representative from the surgeon and Frú Ragnheiður. The shocking reports of deaths resulting from drug abuse in the country were discussed. There are dozens of people dying each year because of overindulging doctors and other drugs. It said that Iceland's population uses 38% more antipsychotic drugs than North America. We're the longest users in OECD. We use most of the most effective hypnotics and sedatives, here is twice the number of agonist uses compared to other North countries, and more checks are prescribed for painkillers than in any other country. This leads to further consumption of narcotics. As a result of the European Union, Spanish physicians can prescribe addictive drugs for patients. We received an interesting presentation of Mrs. Ragnhei's operation on the less destructive actions for consumers. There's an all-black drug market in this country. Full - time men receive medicines from doctors they use as currency to buy prostitution from those who are very sick around us. We must fight the darkness that lies here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Against that darkness, where drugs are sold on the black market, and people are forced to live together. The problem is that there is also a Persian protection against all contact between doctors and nurses about information, and we need to bring them down fences as well. We also need to help the drug - related organisations, the U.S., the Homing Room and Krysavík. This is all of us in this room. Let us work to blow away the darkness.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u5	A respectable president. Yesterday, representatives of the Industrial Association met with the Environment and Transport Committee and discussed a report on the international infrastructure that was released in October 2017. The report explains the high assessment of the state of the wood and makes it clear that there is a great need for maintenance and further development. The country's road system is about the worst, and there's a condition that requires response. It'll even come. Up to 5,600 miles [5,600 km] of highways in the care of the Road of Vega are bound to a broken layer, but dirt roads are much longer than 7300 miles [7,300 km]. We know that these maladies travel from day to day to school and to work. Then there are some malarways in which during the whole summer, we count several hundred cars, and in reality it is impossible to keep the roads at a reasonable pace from day to day. In addition to the highways, there are 12,000 miles [12,000 km] of rural roads, most of which are dirt roads. Well, then there's a lot of other stuff. Investment is the basis for economic growth and development in many countries as a basis for the innovation and use of resources. A country that lives in such a rural country as Iceland has to use a higher proportion of transport income than has been done in recent years. To maintain the competitiveness of the individual parts of the country as well as the country in general, it is absolutely necessary to build a means of transportation. It is necessary that transport plans and financial programmes be maintained at any given time. Now it is important to relax what is expected to develop in the economy during the next year to be used to build roads and other infrastructures. This can also reduce the decline and help to build long - term economic growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u6	V.E.G. President. During these days, there is a lot of discussion about the arrival of a teacher card in the country, and yesterday a very good consideration of this position was given to the TV show. It revealed that after the study was extended to five years, an attendance at a teacher's school has crashed. If this trend cannot be reversed, it is felt that the school system will be disabled after 10 to520 years. This is a very serious fact, and it is therefore necessary to respond promptly and effectively. V.E.G. Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir says it's necessary to respond and perform operations. They will appear in the fall, but it is important, if it is a good way to succeed, that the European Union of the United States and the leadership of the teachers class bring in that way. V.E.G. According to the minister of education, this situation is the greatest challenge in this terms. Already the student's loan system is being revised, even with the goal of turning parts of the study loan into a scholarship. It is also being considered whether a part of a teacher's studies will be rewarded. V.E.G. President. At the same time, I think it is important to promote support services around the teacher so that he will have more time to attend to the teaching itself and its preparation. In addition, efforts must be made to improve the teacher's job positions, such as computer equipment, so that teachers can work according to various goals set out in the primary school curriculum. This large, important group of subjects is stressed by the media. On the 100th birthday of the party, an educational policy group was set up, and at the beginning of March, the group will make adjustments. The group has met with the various stakeholders in the teachers' class. So much emphasis can be said to be placed on academic matters, both in the advance and in the government. It is emphasized that solutions that work to cope with the existing social problems. This is an urgent and important matter. Can we all agree on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u7	A respectable president. Last night, at a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee, we received a number of guests who were presented with a report on a transport group on the financing of stocks to and from the capital area, a case that is involved in reimbursement of institutions to and from the capital sector. Civilnes are headed for the airport and east for Selephos. The cost is said to be about 55 billion and it can be started immediately next year, and some of the roads could even be started this year. The presentation went out to show what kind of price would be taken before driving to these places. Without taking sides or resisting the arrangement, a body of Congress now remembers that financial plans will be submitted in less than two months. Whether or not governments will undertake these projects will be clearly identified in the transport programme. If financial programmes do not reveal that these projects are being funded, either they are being suspended or taken on their own. That's all there is to it. If the government is to cooperate with the council, it is better to apply it now before a financial program is published. That's a key figure. As far as I know, nothing has been talked to us. Otherwise, it will be some kind of mess while discussing the financial agenda. I don't think it's likely to be successful with previous experience, i.e. that once it has been established, an additional 55 billion will be allowed to be introduced into a financial program. If the government wants to cooperate with the Parliament on this matter, they need to do so before financial planning is submitted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u8	Mr. President. The beginning of the first industrial revolution was a time when the gap between the richest and the poorest people in the world grew. Although most of the quality of life has improved substantially since then, the distinction between property and income between the richest people in the world and the poorest has been increasing. The world's lowest income level, especially in China and India, has grown as fast as possible in income last decade and is well. That's only 200 bucks, though. a day that is the average wage for these poorest people on earth. Iceland is an internationally rich country. Our economic system has been very productive for decades, and there are indications that we will remain a rich nation despite the fact that there is a nation that is divided in this country. But there are two things that really bother me today. First, assuming that every industrial revolution further increases the gap between the richest and poorest people of the earth and that almost entirely after access to technology and the other economic prosperity of the revolution, we are at high risk that we will be greatly reduced, unless we make sure that we are responsible for all future industrial revolutions. At this moment it requires emphasis on education and construction of infrastructure, investments in biotechnology, mecatronic, automation, chemistry, artificial intelligence, space research, etc. On the other hand, if the use of steam alone allowed tens of thousands of times the gap between the rich and the poor, what is the result of today's commercially intelligent and commercial technology? What are we here to do to ensure that all things will benefit from the future and not just us who are at the conclusion of the system of things?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u9	Mr. President. It was something else that you learned last year and took with you in the probationary bank. Some of it is actually trying to digest. One of them has to do with the affairs of people who are in trouble with civil rights, but that is not a big initiative for taking the lead. Minister of Justice. Therefore, it is important that the council take a matter to heart regarding the civil rights and be very careful about all of them. I know that members of Congress have received mail like me for a certain individual, Einer Nielson, who is an Icelandic, in my opinion, was born here, has contributed to the development of a unique Western community, has worked at the Slyslavík, cares for schooling, music lessons, etc.; something we just want individuals, families, to do that live in Iceland wherever they come, to participate in the community. Then there's something wrong after we've built a system that just says, And we're going to push them out automatically. I especially rejoice that the president of the General and Education Committee has taken a very firm stand and, in fact, cut the top. Justice minister down from the snare. As I say, with experience, taking the initiative would not have come from there. This is now the Senate. That's why I think it's more important that we start creating clear rules about a simple system, a humanable system, when it comes to the giving of citizens' rights. At the council, we must not fall into the pit called a fluke. We must have the rules transparent, accessible, and humane so that we do not drive away people we see at great advantage in Icelandic society. The responsibility is all of us. Let's have a hug open, not closed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u10	A respectable president. It's dangerous, probably everyone, at least most of the time. There are various dangers involved in different amounts of drugs, and they vary in variety. Divers can do much harm to individuals, even to society itself. The solution to that problem is generally to reduce demand and supply. In order to reduce availability, the focus is primarily on distribution of the materials. It is a good price to try, but it is not necessarily a solution. By drawing e.g. from the distribution of legal substances prescribed by physicians, people may go to less expensive illegal substances and may now become heroin for the first time a real part of the Icelandic drug culture of the underworld. There are dangers in this too. It's not that simple that we can reduce distribution and then we'll solve everything. This is more complicated than that, although, of course, it is a good price to try. You may try to control the distribution to some extent, but the need is still there. When an addict is not available, the need is still there. She doesn't disappear that way. That's the problem. Sometimes the drug problem is said to be a problem of soberness, i.e. People find it difficult to be sober. It's just that it's not sober in life, it's sorry for the sleigh. The second is to reduce demand, which should be my main concern. We will, for example. with prevention, which is probably the most important factor, to any extent more important. Sadly, though, we also do so by punishment. We are involved in a community framing groups with such problems. The response of society to drug abuse, especially before the actual use of alcohol itself, is part of the problem itself. A reduction in hair means that problems related to consumption without necessarily trying to get people to quit them and when, in turn, people will be better able to stop when the damage is minimal, they must say themselves. But we should stop punishing consumers in their efforts to deal with the problem. When it comes to reducing demand, we need to focus on two things: prevention and reduction. [[The president calls.]] Prevention and reduction of damage. Prevention and reduction of damage. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u11	Mr. President. The incidence of disability in young people is enormous. More than half of those treated with 75% microenergy assessments last year have a mental disorder problem. Our situation is considerably inferior to that of a control country, and we need to stop and ask ourselves, " What is the cause? ' The latest medical journal shows that there is an increase of less than 13% in the prescription of methylphenidate and new users of about 3,200. That is almost a 78% increase over a five - year period. A new BS study at the University of Iceland reports that nearly 7% of high school students have abused prescription products and 13% of students at primary school. That, in my opinion, is too little to discuss the causes and interactions between drug and drug abuse and mental health. But what can be done? We need to analyze the causes and underlying factors that make so many young people suffer from mental illness, and we also need to examine every option from the foundation. One of the tools we have been given is active, but there we have seen a lot of success, both economic and social, which in recent years have turned thousands of people into active workers in a workforce, during active job search, or as a result of taking on loans, thus opening up new opportunities for social activities. A new health minister has emphasized the importance of improving mental - health services to young people and trying to stop these developments. This year's budget was added both to clinics and hospitals as well as to BUGL. The plan is to increase the number of psychologists and cross-cutting mental health cases within the medical facility and to increase the availability of mental - health professionals. The most important thing to me is to grasp the causes of disability in young people's lives, and especially the resources we make because of the obvious break in them all, otherwise we will not be standing in this situation. I'm the highest. Health Minister to impress these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u12	Mr. President. In the policy of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the highest. Prime Minister, a section entitled Europe's Pentateuch and Business Correspondence, in itself a rather remarkable title on that chapter. It says, by permission of the president: European Union is the best safe place for Iceland. The government believes that it is one of Iceland's most important interests to carry out the EEA contract well and the UN needs to be more active in this. There are so many words of communication between Iceland and the European Union and the EEA Convention, apart from the importance of Bgret for Icelandic interests, which is a government special interest as it seems. During last night's debate at the councilBenediktsson This statement is addressed to the European Union, the EEA Bjarni and the EFTA countries that I consider very important and of particular interest. They fell in touch with a discussion about the two-part structure of the partnership, with permission of a president: ▪ When the European Union is under pressure from one issue after another, I see no better than that we are in position to say, "Hey, this is not part of the agreement, not part of it. This cannot be requested under the flag of the EEA community. There I think we need to take a closer look at our rights and position in the European Union because that machine has a very grueling force, depending on all kinds of objections. And yes, there have been times when our fellow workers have left behind. It seems to me like the highest. The secretary of finance is preparing the soil for the disaster of the EEA partnership and the direct relations between Iceland and the European Union in two-way communication. That's a very serious development I strongly warn you about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u13	A respectable president. Lately lost a lot of talk in the community about all forms of prejudice. Yet, one of them has little space, but it is aging prejudice, prejudice on the basis of a certain age, and therefore is different, with other needs, desires, or abilities, other expectations, or outlooks. Centuries ago, as a society, we are harmed by waves and demeaning people. That's what we need to change. The Icelandic legal environment is filled with indicators of age, some of which are necessary, such as. Protective measures for youth and development, but other factors are harmful, such as the fact that laws for life should determine whether a person can keep his work, whether he is entitled to serve, etc. It may even be asked whether using age as a set of standards to limit rights, whether it is justified in using age as accessories, or in preventing services. All such references assume that it is permissible to set a measuring bar on the basis of age. It promotes prejudice toward older ones, and we should stop doing so. How so, for example. Is it possible that an adult 68 - year - old who is disabled because of illness or accidents should have other criteria for service than the 66 - year - old? How fair is it that at 70 years of age there is no longer a need for knowledge or experience in an individual than it was in the past? Would it not be normal for such a decision to be determined by the individual or by other means more objective than that someone was born on some particular day? A respectable president. We are to deal with the task of eliminating old - fashioned dates. In this way we improve society and ensure that regardless of their age, people will be used and put to the community as long as they have the will and ability to do so. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u14	A respectable president. I would like to take up a conversation that burns on people in many parts of the country and especially in my own district. It's not police business, it's not alflf's business, it's a hairy hunt, it's because recent reports say that the Oceanographic Institute intends to send a ship out to a hairy search outside the West and look for the islands and the eastern islands. I would especially like to welcome, which may not be common in the Generals' symposium, the decision made by the Affliction Institute, which was by no means extenuating. It will be late enough that we, as a marine-industrial nation, provide sufficient basic research on our resource, the marine resource. Thus, it is clear that hairy fishing and farming are of utmost importance to many of the coastal areas of the country. This is not only of concern to the coastal areas but also of the state's treasure. It can be assumed that if the diet remains unchanged, the income of the state's budget will be about 51⁄210 billion on the current furline. The total intensity of the furturbing process that is now initiated was set at 285 levels. a ton, but when you say this, you should be aware that of them, Norwegians get their first bids. 30 ys. The tons, then the Greenlands, and the Movers take about 50 of you. The ton, so that our Icelanders in hairy clouts, as he is now determined, are about 200 thoust. a ton. I welcome the expedition of the Oceanographic Institute, especially here in the Generals speaking, and I believe that it is of great importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u15	Mr. President. V.E.G. At the beginning of the week, the minister of foreign affairs had a meeting with the chief director of the United Nations in New York City. V.E.G. A minister made it clear that the United Nations is more important to us than many suspect. I'll agree with that. I'd like to draw special attention to one thing the chief executive said at the meeting. He stressed that Iceland could have a major impact on the United Nations, often seen in Iceland as an agreement, as Iceland would have a national authority in the fields of equality and human rights that would require trust. What an interesting comment that is for us today! We should view them as an opportunity to make us more visible internationally, to be visible at the United Nations scene, and to take initiative in international affairs. In particular, the director mentioned that Iceland uses confidence as an agreement. Trust is very important in international peace and reconciliation search. The fact that Iceland is a military country and a land without weapons strengthens our facility. Mr. President. I'd like to mention a big international case where I believe we could make a difference. This is a controversy between Israel and Palestine. I do not say this least because I have served in that area and have felt the great favor of the Israelites and the Palestinians toward us. The United States has failed to adjust for peace in the Middle East because Palestinians have never been able to trust them fully. The European Union has not made any progress because the Israelites have not trusted in it. Norway wishes to return to the peace process, but I claim here that the people of Palestine do not trust them for a failure agreement. Iceland is a small country, but a large country when it comes to peace. This has confirmed the secretary - general of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u16	A respectable president. This is an extremely important matter and, in my opinion, a matter of time. An exception from the writers' code is outlined as follows: No amount of money is given to do electronic copies of a work that has been typed, as the purpose of such articles is to provide automatic data analysis and grammar and statistical information. Unauthorized copies are used for another purpose. The availability of electronic data, including scientific data, is increasing rapidly. It is estimated that more than 2.5 million writers in English are currently being published each year. As a result, investigators are finding it difficult to cover all the material in a particular field of study, especially when a particular field of work is required. Then it's even harder. Instead, they are increasingly using computer automatic data analysis (i.e. Šdata mining) or ◯data analysis in order to obtain useful information from large sources of data. Automatic data analysis also enables investigators to identify a variety of correlates and patterns that would be difficult to identify. Automatic data analysis requires general copy of the data to be reviewed. It would be a fear - inspiring thing for researchers to gain consent from all the rights of a database that can easily run at thousands. As the bill says, there are about 2.5 million editorials, if you want to look at them all, it's pretty much work and obvious that just don't happen. Therefore, it is very important to give an expanded access from the authors' exclusive right to document generation as a result of automatic data analysis in behalf of technological development and scientific research. Over the past few years, significant progress has been in language technology. It's not just study articles, it's about books too. Therefore, movies, spoken language, radio, television, council speeches, what it is now - speeches in the World Congress are not authors. One of the main barriers to speech technology is limited access to computers for processing. This bill suggests that electronic copies of jobs that have capitalized to process the grammatical and statistical information are available. It actually works, so a computer takes up books and reads them. By reading the books, the computer makes a copy. It's inevitable. She then uses the information she reads to train some kind of algorithm, a neural tube, or something similar. It's the network that's important to me. The data that the computer then reads will be forgotten, just as we do not remember the exact words for the books we read. What this bill does is that the computer be allowed to read the book without having bought it, because each person must buy millions of books to do it, and that is a very temporary copy. It is only right while the computer is reading, which may take a short time, depending on the appearance of the book. Once finished, it has nothing to do with the data. It has created the neural network, created statistical information on the words and combinations needed to be used, which is precisely irrelevant in the book's contents. It is fundamental to realize that computers read hundreds of thousands of books and gather how a word is connected, how the language works, but not essential in how history builds up. Yes, it could be used to train a computer to write stories, it can be done, no problem. The more books a computer reads, the better it becomes in writing stories. In some ways, a small fraction of some book that it was reading somewhere could be attributed to, but in each of these numbers, it is the same as the sign between many books, in fact, that it cannot be said that it came out of exactly this book. In fact, it is impossible to expect, both that it has some effect on the computer, exactly what one book of the total number of computers read and that it is really asking for the source of the material. There is no connection. It's actually less connected than if we, if we were musicians, were listening to music on the radio and listening to a lot of songs. Gradually, an idea of a song that we make up for ourselves, music, text, or something else is formed. We can honestly say that we've got the idea from the law we listened to, but we can't really point out exactly where that idea came from, how it got patched together. It's a new creation. Similarly, a computer is enabled to go through the libraries and what else, to read books for entertainment, and also to understand the language. The load of this is huge. We don't really have to do this just once. Of course, evolution is the first step. When the computer is familiar with the language, it's a particular resource, so it's a device that's gonna be useful for thousands of years. Now the computer knows English. In the modern world and in the future, this is not a small matter. This is a very small change. No one is losing money because of this; nothing is being taken away from anyone who is not currently being used to any extent. So we're just creating something of value with this, creating the potential for Icelandic to be digital. I say it's a matter of time because technology throws it forward fast. Foreign people are much longer in this than we are. Much further. In Iceland, there is a lack of access somehow to Icelandic text by people from abroad, knowledge of the language needed to survive in a digital world. That's what we need to do to digitally digitally. That's how she survives. She never forgets like that. In this way it will come to be preserved for thousands of years. We come to see amazingly good and interesting data about how the language develops over the years; as we train more artificial intelligence on the future text, we can easily compare the text of today, 30 years ago, and the future. This is, in my opinion, one of the best cases we can accept right now that we can newly provide for the technological development at present. Now we've been on the motionline for Iceland. It is fully financed, as has been said in the financial program and in the years to come. This addition, however, is a key key to fully returning it to digital form. If the access to the data is not ensured, and not free, as suggested by the bill, to be excluded from the author's rights, nothing will happen. Then we are moving forward in the same small set of data that will not bring us that success in the years to come, in which other languages have arrived. It's a matter of competition. So I don't see any reason why this matter should be delayed in some way by Congress. This is not an increase in the cost of a government fund, it is an obvious option to support and strengthen Icelandic in a digital world to support and strengthen Icelandic technology for the future and innovation in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u17	A respectable president. There is not much to add to a talk. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear on this subject, but I have to come up and discuss it. If today the idea of authorialism was to be made, I feel that it would be virtually impossible, at any rate, in the present way. I'd like to make a mistake that the Pirantars are not against writers' rights at all. There are very many important distribution models that work only because of the author's condition, e.g. open software, and many permits running software are only worth something because of a writer's weight. So we're not against author rights at all. However, for computer technology and Internet time, the right of the author's right was long ago put, in particular, and the amazing ability mankind has to process and make good use of data. This presents a number of problems. One is that some governmental authorities, or governmental institutions, tend to try to intervene in things best for all of us. This case is a sign of this situation. We live here in the beautiful, awesome Iceland and speak this diabolical language, Icelandic. If we do so, our language is very likely to die out. There is no disagreement on this, that I know that, although good things have happened recently in those subjects. There seems to be political support for saving the Icelandic language and holding its hand through the technological advances of the 21st century, which include more or less than all the words of bilingual, Icelandic, and English. Since English is simply more beneficial to contact with anyone than Iceland, of course, there is a tendency for it to appear in various fields. This development will not be reversed, nor will it be likely. But we all want to hold on to the language. Why? I'm going to wait a little bit with that philosophical speculation, but maybe it'll come to them in 2nd. Um... I'll see. But in order to save the Icelandic language, we need to be able to work on the software projects that aim to identify and maintain it with all the power that is possible. It is a problem today that individuals who are interested in creating software, either a web site, or a different software to analyze the Icelandic language, cannot, or do it in a legal grey area, which is a little uncomfortable. There are projects that I'm not sure I'd like to mention here in a pita for fear those people who are up to the good and important tasks get a call from someone who makes comments about the use of the material. The news of the day found that here was a British gentleman studying Icelandic - I have had the privilege of meeting him once -- who wanted to use AU to create a Web site. I can't remember what he was thinking about them. But then he got into trouble because he was not allowed to use the evidence. He was prevented from using them. There was an assignment that would have brought benefits to all of us. That was for a financial reason. First of all, I understand that the AU has not personally been able to determine whether it could distribute the data in a way that would allow more people to distribute them too. Then there will be a breakdown of character. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson passed over earlier. It's just hard to find out if you can spread something, even if you have the authority to make a decision. In fact, I think that this belief is prevalent in the institution - but it's a problem because the law, the authorly, is designed to produce these silly problems. Since this is what I'm referring to, I'd also like to challenge those people who notice that material is used to distinguish Icelandic, or to create software that somehow treats it, to make it public that it will not be sought to prevent it from happening. That would be nice. Of course, the authors have certain rights, the nature of the matter, but it would be a beautiful thing to do. If we were to force these fine amateur scientists to stick to material not bound by the authoric rights, such as the Generalist Council, it might be rather unique and would not necessarily reflect all of Icelandic human life or culture. Let me make a statement. Maybe there's nothing more to say about this for now, but I hope this case works out, hoping this change will work out. However, I hope in particular, and above all, that the support the government has shown in the cause that in the 21st century, the New World Translation will continue and increase if there is anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u18	Mr. President. I'm not going to delay this in particular, but I'd like only to introduce the creation of the EU authorship laws in accordance with the EU Directive and to be in the European Union's Directive on authorship, which is, of course, for some reason a very strange name, by permission of the President, Nevertheless, the directive allows for 20 different decision-making practices that each country has to implement anyway. It is one of the chosen rights of authors' rights, of course, of research and evolution, which are of no profit. It's a good and blessed thing, except that it's not been implemented that way in Iceland so far, and it's a bill in a way of thinking that it's never been replaced. It may be helpful to mention that because of the 20 exceptions, there has been a certain problem in the European Union because at the time of the decree issued, the European Union did not have the authority to establish laws or directives of authorhood. In part, this explains the appearance of the name because it was said to be consistent in the inner market. However, since these are 20 choices that can be implemented in four different ways each, there will be four possibilities to the 20th power of export. If you put it in context, there are about four times as many possible exports as there are four known stars in our galaxy. The chances that any two European countries accidentally land on the same implementation are approximately none. But everything's fine. This is naturally one of many reasons why author cases are again under discussion in the European Union. Now this is to be the case with the type of data analysis. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, mentioned earlier, shall only be allowed in future research institutions. There are a lot of debates about this in the European Union, and there are very good reasons for this, and questions about what sort of persons can do what is being suggested here. They want companies to offer services such as language technology as well as e.g. journalists. I believe this bill will be up to now can provide a pattern of good things into the discussion that is taking place in the European Union that will not be completed in the next year and certainly not over the next two years. But having it in provides an example for us to do things the right way. Hopefully, this will happen by implementing this selection now. This enables us to take advantage of the vast array of stars and possibilities that the European Union has given us, and we can be examples for the future European Union in this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u19	President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in social security law, the thing involved in a commercial-employment cut in terms of the calculation of income insurance. This bill has the goal of establishing a permanent hold-of-the-employment market for microenergy pensioners because of the sector's income calculations. Among the combustions that a donor earns is the so - called income insurance policy, a form of payment that should be paid when a pensioner's income is under a particular target, called a vacation market. When determining whether a person has the right to earn money, he or she is looked to all his income, with the exception of payments from insurance agencies, mortgages, and community financial support. In accordance with current social security laws, the income of a pensioner from a job is reduced when the income is over the pay market. In the current law, the default target is expressed as 300,000 dollars. every year, i.e. $25,000. per month. This amount is called the base value of a vacation target, but during the past few years, the rise in the cost market has been maintained by the sentence of temporary regulations. From 2009 on, there has been a real vacation target of 1,315,200 k. each year, that amount has been replaced annually with the sentence of a new provisional principle. The current situation is such that by varying time to the year, it has been accepted as an extension of this preliminary principle that prevents the failure of what it is today, which is 109,600 k. a month at 25,000 a.m. per month. It puts disability into the position of being completely uncertain over what their income may be for weeks or days ahead. This process results in vast uncertainty and insecurity. Many poor people have described their work as a source of great anxiety. It is our duty here to put an end to uncertainty and to ensure microsurge in their income. The bill suggests that the basic value of a non-employment target due to employment management on the calculation of income insurance for the b-joins 2.mg. Section 16. changes from 300,000 k. of 1,315,200 k. and microsurgeons will thus be permanently assured of the perennial goal they have lived in during the past few years. President. This bill is simple and should have no disagreement about it in the Senate, I hope not. The rights of disability, laid down, are no less than self - determination. Only by provision of temporary regulations each year, we are destroying uncertainty and insecurity. Finally, let us mention that this bill was submitted last year. Thus, its translation is based on January 1 of this year. So I will suggest that this date will be updated in January 1, 2018, in the treatment of the case on the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u20	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A importer and her partners for the bill. I allow myself to say the final words in the testimony of a messenger. It's very simple. It is, indeed, a matter of righteousness. In the case of a business, it is often said that an enterprise has to be able to live with a sense of responsibility. This is understandable and natural, and it is often very important to talk about business matters. This article speaks of the security and destiny of people who are in the position that this bill is about. Of course, it is only reasonable to conclude that making lasting decisions that have previously been made each year from year to year can be guaranteed, as the above. I allow myself to expect that this "judgment of justice'business will be cleared through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u21	A respectable president. The bill is discussing a very important case, i.e. It's a bourgeois goal. The one standing here is brought up by a single mother who is an invalid who had three children, and I know firsthand the human beings who live in micropigs. I'm telling you, disability is a resource. It's not supposed to interfere with the prospect of disability in the community. We are to be delighted that a poor person wants to be a part of his work. That's why it's very important to me. At the same time, I remind you there are no people working around the country. The poor gain social stability by being able to participate in the workforce in the extent of their trust. That is comparable to what the North countries do in such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u22	President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in social security laws and social assistance laws. The bill suggests specific supplementation to be canceled, and its sum is added to the terms of income insurance. This change would contribute to a lower decline in pensioners, where special remuneration would be reduced by 100% due to all the income a pensioner may receive, but such a decrease in daily amounts has been mentioned against a dollar's impairment. It makes it possible that for a certain amount of money, pension payments are affected to the same extent and that, in spite of his job, the income of a pensioner will remain unchanged. A single type of income totally destroys another type has a very discouraging effect on the employment of a pensioner. The fact is that many pensioners choose not to participate in a job market because of the degree of impairment they would then experience. The decision not to participate in a labour market may seem to be better for a pensioner, since their profession would not give them increased income. Hence, many pensioners do not see the benefit of working despite their ability to work. There is a danger that their experience may be that their work is of little or no value. With this substitution's deduction, there is an increasing incentive for working with those to whom these supplements are relevant today. This loss of specific employment support was formerly also observed in nursing patients. She was removed by a change in law No. 116/2016, where there were some simple changes in the pension system. To do the same for micro-energy pensioners is a justice matter, regardless of the opinion of professional ability. The cost of such an operation has already been estimated. However, the premise should be provided that the cost assessment may require renewal. At the 146th legion of legislatures, there was trouble. paritaprevir Leví Gunnarsson, senator for Pirata, asked for social and equality ministers who were asked for pensions in the social security system. Among the factors asked was the annual cost of a government on the social security system, it would be by adding special pensions to a reimbursement according to 2 mg. Count 9. Act on social assistance into income insurance according to Article 22. Acting on social security and thus eliminating a dollar in return because of other incomes of disability donors. The cost of such an operation was found to be about 10.9 billion. It must be maintained, however, that there is only a cost of clean increase. The potential income that would result from the operation, e.g., was not evaluated. with increased employment support, increased production, and increased tax revenue. Thus, real cost is considerably lower. President. It will be noted that this bill was submitted last year, making its work on January 1 of this year. So I will suggest that this date be updated on January 1, 2019, in the treatment of the case on the committee. Note, too, that following the fact that the bill was presented, it was reported that the bill could have a negative effect on the group of microenergy donors who have reduced energy payment for farms. It is a small group in a more delicate position, and it is not the intention of immigrants to reduce their wages further. On the contrary, it is necessary to ensure a satisfactory forward. There have already been some recommendations and therefore I suggest that these suggestions be discussed with the treatment of the situation at this time. The welfare committee and the discovery of a solution that ensures that the above group does not carry a distinct item from a table. It's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u23	A respectable president. I'm just gonna talk about this. There are sometimes ideas and suggestions to reform the social security system that I call an opportunity because there are changes that cost little, even nothing, but could be quite effective. It is relatively rare in the social security system because it is a giant system, an exorbitant system of things, so it can be very difficult to correct the many injustices that exist there. A bill such as what a group of people have submitted to decommissioning a pension because of employment is a consistent adjustment proposed by the Piratars to the so - called bandage, i.e. various adjustments, tax changes, and the like. Happily, too, the campaign was not the norm. Now I'm afraid to use an accurate number because circumstances would change over time, but this solution would cost about a billion, maybe 1.5 billion, somewhere between them, to make this change from the changes that occurred in pensions following our approval of the corrosion. At that time, a 25 - up [free] income goal was raised. K. of 100 you. K. ... foremployers. This means that the figures that come from a response to a question that is often mentioned in this context from what? paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, is no longer correct in view of today's situation. The situation today is better for the numbers, these are lower in terms of this change than before, but the answer to this inquiry showed that the cost was 2.5 billion. The bill's gone bad. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen recommended earlier on the holiday target is a very simple change of exactly 0K. and does not change the expenses of a government fund because it is simply being established for something that is already being done annually by provisional regulations. It was also a suggestion that we made during discussions about the corrosion but was sadly rejected. I think that's part of it because people just didn't study the suggestion well enough. I fear that the same value for the proposal that was recommended earlier should not be denied by anyone, since all it does is calm people who are otherwise concerned about the fact that the provisional principle will not be extended. However, I mention this because this special replacement bill costs quite a lot, costs about 10.9 billion, that is, in spite of expenses, if money is not taken into account in the form of increased production of disability. It's my mind, at least, to do business disability. The global insurance system is, at least. According to most of the people I talk to, thinking about people who can't work, who have a lack of ability, may win something, and this is a recommendation. This is measured in some way that I don't know a lot of difference, you can be a 75% invalid or a 100% invalid or anything. The Social Security System is designed to seize this less efficient population. Then it may quickly work, rationally, that these payments are impaired when it is found that a person has more ability than was perhaps measured at the outset. I just want to challenge the view that it's safe. First, this approach is very discouraging and unjust for people who may have some means of working, even in a special field, and who manifest themselves in gross injustices. What bites the head of that object is the so - called dollar cut against a dollar in which an invalid finds a job, earns some income by the project, or anything else, and is not paid for it. To solve this may cost the shilling according to this bill, but it's just so much justice. More important, because of some incomes, it can result in a loss of more than 100% in favor of other benefits or income. I'd like to get the audience to think about it. As an invalid, you can, in effect, lose income by taking a job. There's a crazy situation. It's totally crazy. But while the 10.9 billion numbers may be high, I think it's very difficult to calculate in advance how much would be received through the disability process. There is also a moral justification that we should not interfere, at least not that much, and certainly not in this way, paying from the social security system to the poor people who go to some extent to the labour market. She is that if a microchip, say 75% of an invalid, finds a job, the system may evaluate it to show that the person does not need payment, but he still has a much less job security. He is more likely to lose his job, and if any, he can search less places. It is natural for individuals who are assessed to some extent participate from time to time, even frequently, in their jobs without losing income and without being evaluated to some extent that they are less desperate. This is because we all have so many variety. We have different abilities, and there is, in fact, no limit to how disability can affect people in every aspect of life. There are several factors that can inhibit working ability, both general and specific. I know the kind of person who can't do some things but can do other things very well and should be able to use his powers when there's a chance and still have this safety net and not lose his job. It's the moral justification I present to this matter. I also have to say in general about the cost-making changes in the social security system that in order to make this system righteous, it will cost money. We must simply make up the moral question, Will we pay for it justice or not? That question is my answer, a respectable president, yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u24	Mr. President. I'd better go back. Thank you, for the manager and for the first agent of this case and for those associated with her. It is a principle in Icelandic society, and it is a tradition devoted throughout the centuries, Mr. President, that the Icelanders have taken counsel to improve their efforts to improve their work. However, around the reform systems that have been installed, there has been a developed system that violates that principle. This is reflected in the declines that are repeated in the discussion, and people know it, such as that the words of the elderly and the desperate often go astray. The bill seeks to counteract it. The disorder may have reached its climax in the term used in a report, and it is with the so - called kroner to a dollar's degree. If, like the last speaker, we want to take this even further. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son changed that even by increasing their employment, they could become involved in a system of delinquency. It's just that every man can see that nowhere is he. Of course, all development of reform systems and public resources should be used to back up those who fall under that system, so that those who have the will and ability to go to the labour market are motivated and able to go to work with all the benefits it has for the individual and for the state's financial resources of increasing tax revenue. Of course, such systems should include encouragement rather than discouragement. In fact, we repeatedly come up with discussions about such matters that the high financial cost in this process is always expressed as a single number, which seldom includes taking into account the impact of government funds that people go to work. We have, for example, come across this discussion about the issues we have had in the Gang and others, about removing the holiday market. It usually includes terms of government funds without least consideration of the financial benefits produced by increasing the workforce. I believe this is a matter of justice and allow me to give in light of the hope and wish that this bill will receive the support at the General Assembly, Mr. President, whom it deserves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u25	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a synopsis proposal for harmonisation of a planned telecommunications programme. The suggestion is with me. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, the Helgi Place of Hrafn the son of Gunnarsson, the Goddjon of Brjánsson Brján, Njáll Trausti Kristjánsdóttir, the Friðbertsson of Friiðber, and Ólafur Þór the son of Gunnarsson. The proposal involves that the General concluded that a prime minister would commit a procedure for the Council's Office for telecommunications in order to assist institutions, rural governments and other agents throughout the country to interact with the Ministry. Ministers of a task force making recommendations for procedures and implementing a new action plan. The secretary would like to introduce the results of the group's work to no later date than September 2018. The conclusion comes with a report. The matter has been presented for two councils, but it did not succeed. The report shows that there are, in fact, eight questions for the local minister of the then government for meeting halls of employment with the staff of their institutions in the country, including for the use of telecommunications and technical training of employees in its use. The answers were received from all kinds of advice, and they varied. They indicate that there is a custom in every department in this regard. In most cases, staff have been trained sufficiently to use technology, and only in one case the Ministry has developed and presented policies there. The inquiry referred to above only covered meeting halls of recruitment with their own employees and staff of the subsidiaries in the country. A large number of other organisations, individuals and companies living in the country area, may need to look for conferences in the area of the capital. It is enough in this context to mention rural governments throughout the country, educational and health institutions in the country, and as well as a number of enterprises important to national employment at national level have a residence outside the capital area. The government, with the National Commission of Iceland, has to be available to all the people and services of individuals and legislators alike, regardless of their residence. It is not quite possible that those with a residence on the southwestern corner of the country have more access to the administrative board than members of the country, where the latter are more difficult to attend in a meeting of the houses all located in Reykjavík, e.g. ... becauseofincompetent and costly travel. So I don't talk about the time in the travel, which can be an obstacle to many people. Strong equilibrium views recommend that those who need to attend a meeting at the council need to have telecommunications and that the designated hardware and software exist and know how to use it. This could be software, such as Skype for Business, Zoom, or GoToyed. Transporters of this proposal feel that it is important for clear and consistent rules of telecommunication and training to ensure transparency and foreclosure. Transporters believe that by implementing telecommunications in consultations, administrative management and other travel costs can be improved. To this end, it is suggested that the prime minister be committed to preconceiving to become a procedure for telecommunications that will be implemented in a consistent manner in all the Ministry. Along with the rules of action, a clear plan for the implementation of the rules will be implemented. The rules normally include will be discussed in what cases the Ministry should offer for telecommunications and how the procedure for such meetings should be carried out. The implementation programme will include Specified time frames and steps in the recording of new tasks, on staff training and technical requirements to ensure that use is consistent between recruitment practices. It is suggested that the minister of the Governing Body appoint a group of personnel who plan for the procedure and implementation program that will be presented by the Council no later than September 2018. Finally, I'd like to say that we've all had some kind of telecommunication technology, and too often it comes up that you get the information that, yes, there's some kind of telecommunication mechanism, but you don't know if anyone really knows how to use it. Then the meeting begins, and the meeting is scheduled for the meeting, and it's not connected, and it's not going to work, and it ends with people putting their phones on the table and taking it on the speaker on the phone. It is obviously not acceptable for the administration of the highest government, the Ministry, that the people who operate there do not know how to use the equipment properly and that the equipment is not even available. Now, local leaders are all over the country, I know, getting used to all sorts of telecommunications and software. In fact, it's at the Board of Directors. I hope this council proposal makes an impression, and I look forward to hearing other senators speaking today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u26	Mr. President. I'm glad that this proposal has come out, in fact, one of her transporters along with a rough one. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. I've done quite a lot of work on medical care, and I've had meetings with telecommunications and therefore understand the importance of this technology. I'd still like to inside the vehicle after one thing, because I don't see it coming out of the report: the state goes a little out on debet and credit, as many people in this room are aware, so I'm wondering how much saving it was, what possible savings could be, and if it shouldn't be part of the job around the motion. The other wing, then, is challenged: What is likely to be the cost of the induction? Because at the end of the state, that's always the first question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For good answer, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur. The senator is not in a position to set precise budgets, either debet or credit. But if you wonder what could possibly be saved: I can't count it in dollars, but just imagine it's pretty impressive for organizations and rural governments, and the individuals who do rural work, as well as for the individuals who do business. A senator knows that there is no particular amount of money now. You need to take time off work, there's a considerable amount of travel cost, even staying in the capital area. The weather's at least the weather. A man can be a beach breaker. It's very expensive, but I don't have the crowns. In terms of the cost of implementing this system, I assume that the task force appointed will take it into account. One is that some agencies already have good equipment. What is lacking is that the staff is trained and knows how to handle it. In fact, the cost has been spent, but it cannot be used. It's just a waste.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u28	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I can, like a whisk. One senator mentioned, imagine that there could be considerable sums of money there. And not only that, but also a great social increase in the fact that half of the company's administration is not always traveling or in the middle of nowhere - that everything else is impossible because everything else is happening here in the southwest corner. It's very important. I later wanted to ask a question that may be impossible to answer. I hope that I will be treated with pity that I don't know enough about technology in it, but I'm asking if the senators are aware that in some particular situation where telecommunications are being used, for example, a higher security requirements for the partnership and the like; whether it can make it more than one type of security, let's say, at this point. Now I know I'm starting to sound like some members of the council here when it comes to this kind of torture, but it's not a coincidence I'm asking about this. These questions have been raised, especially since people have been wondering about how to record this in health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u29	Mr. President. I thank the senator again for a very good and interesting answer. I have to admit that when the senator mentioned technical matters, I was cold. The following is not known for being a high level of technology. I missed seeing Pirata in the gym. No doubt they can answer that question. I see one right here in the side room, my associate, my partner. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. He may be able to give a talk and discuss the security issues. This is a very important factor, security and information security. But once again, I hope the team takes a look at this very thing. Hopefully, there will be some of those who know more about it than I do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u30	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. ... aman,what. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, for working on this synopsis proposal. I think it's very good, it's really important. Although this may not necessarily be the main issue at the council, this is an important issue because it is a matter of better access between the public and the country's administration in Reykjavík and how it has been built up. That's why it's important. When I was a member of the local government and was doing some business here and there, there was always a requirement for us to come to the Ministry to review the situation. They were different meetings, they were expensive, they took a lot of time, and often you didn't feel enough about the time. That is where the local government, the institutions of the State and various companies are, as the report shows. We need to get a service and there's real access to the executives. That's why it's important. I think this is a better idea to be implemented and to work by some standards, since this is not necessarily a matter of the post office and the Ministry. These too are the members of the Generals, members of Congress, and access to them. I know myself it's not the same bioavailability as it's expensive. Often, it is a personal cost to appear before a Senate committee, making it a secret matter. If this body's conclusion is accepted, I wanted to develop a more effective and more progressive method of working toward the standards of these issues. I've heard quite a few things about how the Ministry is not well versed in these matters. It is often difficult to get such meetings through telecommunications, and often it just ends up on the phone, as mentioned by a merchant earlier. So much of this issue has to do with better and more general access to the national administrations and institutions around the country. I think building it could become a huge savings in the system. In recent years I've observed the University of Akureyri, how they've been doing things there, and I can't see better than they've come the longest in the process of developing telecommunications. About two or three years ago, I began to observe some sort of meeting crew members in Internet worlds. They may cost 1.5 million. K. They are riding bicycles, and they can be connected through them during meetings so that there is much more to be found in the meeting despite their absence. It's very interesting to look at such videos. The last step has been made up of so - called robotics placed on the meeting table, so the presence of delegates via phone is much higher than in the past. They feel that they are in much more part of the meeting, and other delegates see them at the meeting even if they are not there. A robot like that costs about 100,000 bucks. So it takes just one or two meeting trips to make such a robot pay off. I would like to see us take action in this regard. As to whether we senators were allowed to have some kind of telecommunications equipment on our computer. I understand there are some technical issues in this case. But I encourage members of the council who know how to examine what prevents the introduction of telecommunications. I think it might help us a lot in our jobs to get that access, whether it's through the Zoom Humvee by other means. I think it would be a really good job to start such a team, if we got the Senate resolution agreed, so working on this material might start because I think it's an expense. I think there would be considerable saving in the administration and especially for those in the country and often have to attend an endless meeting. As a result, the cost is high. So I welcome this council-sense proposal a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u31	Mr. President. First, I'd like to celebrate the eulogy proposal presented over time. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, along with others. In today's society where good films can be held around the world whenever and at any time through such simple tools as these, it must be possible to find better and more accessible ways for people to come to a meeting, to film with the Ministry and Senate committees, but to have to either fly to the place or to be in a phone that doesn't give the same feeling or the locality. The fact that Iceland is in a unique position to be an almost urban state places even more responsibility on us to ensure the availability of all, regardless of the population, of government and government services. As the report shows, it is not preconceived that in the southwestern corner, people have more access to the administration than citizens in the region. This is especially foolish today, since, like me in the past, graphic communication has never been simpler. Like what? paritaprevir In the past, Njáll Friðbertsson, the technology has advanced. Hv. In this regard, one member of the Parliament gave a fine example of how well the University of Akureyri has done well. It has been introduced into the use of a robot or a so - called remote being, as they have chosen to call it. The robot or the Faraway is called Krista and intended to simplify its participation in meetings and/or classes. The idea is to facilitate the participation of remote students, make it easier for them to communicate with local students, that they can participate more effectively in discussions, and even take local students into the dining room. The robot is mobile and can drive at speeds up to 20 miles [3 km], which can be very fun at the university tunnel. More important, the robot's operating system is simple in use, and it can be used by computers, iPads, and telephones. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and emphasize the use of jobs that will hopefully be started in the budgets available not necessarily require special equipment, so that access will be simple and convenient and not need to be in a particular location where telecommunications are available or something, but will be able to use such devices as this. Mr. President. I have a very positive view of this fine decree of Congress, but I would like to, like, a procrastination. paritaprevir The Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson came in earlier, wanted to see her go further, even farther, and cover more than the Ministry alone. In the last few weeks, I've been given tips on the position of experts who are asked to attend a meeting of committees without being on the side of institutions or companies. They are in a position to provide for their own travel expenses and possible lodging. The cost may run at 48-555 hours. K., just for the camera to shoot, and they have to make hundreds of miles to attend a council meeting, often even for a brief period of time. This is a fact that leads some people not to rely on meeting committees or to choose to join on the telephone, which, unfortunately, simply does not give the same opportunity for discussion as when talking face - to - face or picture. It is a natural loss for us who do things, us senators on the committees, for we may even miss the opinion of experts, which could have a profound impact on our payment. Of course, many people are making use of the journey and are taking more meetings in the capital area along the way or in other matters. But this does not change the fact that today technology is good, and it is certain that cases should probably be meeting with members of Congress or the Ministry through the Internet to form through the programs mentioned in the Parliament's odorary proposal. In today's community where video chats can be held anywhere and at any time by mobile phone, we must be able to find a better and more accessible way to meet with members of the Senate or the Ministry than to fly to the scene or make telephone calls. I want to go so far as to score the highest. The president and the Presidency Committee to set out at the same time a comparable work within the council, which states that I would re-enact the proposal, that a strong equality would be recommended by those who attend meetings at the council's office, and that they would be able to do so through the illustrated process.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u32	A respectable president. The overall harmony should be welcomed as long as possible. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir suggests her synoptic proposal for harmonization of work at a government telecommunication. The standards that this matter is really about are designed to find the rules of how things fit and to return what they should. In order to meet quality standards, we need rules, instructions, definitions. Actually, there's a why. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir to bring in some kind of quality standard for the administration. It has previously been observed that such a procedure can save even a million dollars a year in time and travel costs. That's a good thing. This suggests that the forwarding party is an equal class. That is exactly what the proposal is all about, ensuring equal access across the country to the administration. I hope so deeply that this action, if it becomes reality, and I trust it, can be a model for future health care, that there will be experience and knowledge of how to deal with robotic telecommunications or other factors. Councilmen have pointed out. But number one, two and three, I say I'm happy with this synonym and I'm here to back her up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u33	A respectable president. I'm not gonna talk too much about security. The experts take care of them. Although I still have a few things to check out there, I have confidence in the group of work that will handle these matters. I just wanted to talk about what really matters here, that's all I think. And that's exactly an initial step. It has been observed in the language of others. Senators that this might be more extensive. I think it's good to start here and try this on a tighter group to start and learn from it and then take bigger steps. It's a general rule when you try something new, start small, and then expand the ring from there. The main thing that I think this case comes on is time. It's people's time. In these last and best times, people's times are by far the most precious. It is important to use the available telecommunications technology, and in the years to come it will get better and better. It is only after a while that we first use our telecommunications technology to save the travel time up and down, to enrich the communications being made by phone, by descriptions. Today, we communicate in a wide variety of ways. Face - to - face, through lyrics, through videos, or by phone. There is a difference between how we communicate through text, e.g. written on a small keyboard. I'll be briefer on my little keyboard because it's slower to write on a little keyboard than on a bigger one, and somehow you get less time. The way we get it from us is of vital importance to the communication we use. It is very easy to misunderstand people in their language, but there is a difference. When I talk to people face - to - face, I can look into their eyes, see if they nod their head, or in some way indicate that they understand what I'm saying. It doesn't happen in a text. There I don't have the chance of adjusting my case to explain more fully what I'm trying to do. On the other hand, I am making it in a text that allows me to go through the discussion earlier and see exactly what was said. It's much more difficult to speak, since you remember just about what was said five minutes ago but not necessarily a word for word. Using the text makes the discussion rewarding in another way, but you lose the ability to update what you're saying at the same time. That is why telecommunications will next come to you as if you were face - to - face with people without being in the same place. I just want to mention that in the end, it is not necessarily too absurd to say that we could even have a meeting at a telecommunications meeting. We could have several senators all over the country, where we would generally be working at a meeting, even though we were not in the same Assembly Hall. We can do this even in a more virtual way. Who knows? There are some things about the future and these technologies that need to be explored and the more important to start quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u34	A respectable president. I'm going to try to stick to something that hasn't been said yet, of course, with one exception. It is most appropriate that the executives of the European Commission have these issues clear, not just government agencies, but other institutions. It would be very good if it were merely a self - righteous part of our existence to maintain telepathy and to communicate as closely as possible with no awareness and really for all reasons. On the other hand, I would like to begin by introducing a specific arrangement that Porta's party has with regard to two regional districts of the northwestern district and the Northeast. Piratars did not enter a senator in the last election in these two elections, unfortunately, but we have recommended that we appoint members of the council who are in charge of that particular district. As an example, the person standing here is studying the affairs of the region and following up discussions that involve that ideal. Of course, this case is strictly regional, and it is not the least of the reasons I speak here, though I have a few extra points that are independent of that fact. Just so they say on the way, that's exactly what it's all about. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who handles the Northeast standard on behalf of the party of Pirata. In all the other elections, we are with members of Congress, and they are of course doing their own ideals, as they have hope and direction. All I want to do is go into a tiny, tiny future mouse situation. Like what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned earlier may have a big difference in whether you are dealing with someone in person or in a phone or in a text. As Facebook proves, a text can be a complete failure to communicate, especially when it comes to sarcasm or emotions that are not easily seen in text. The same is true of telephone calls. I imagine a future and hope that the future will be that if you live in Isafjordur or somewhere else out in the country, and only if you have a standard computer network and a reasonable Internet connection, preferably good, you can come to the office of the public agency and talk to someone and watch the person and experience every human interaction in the near future. I think it really matters. That may sound like a sidebar, but I think it really matters. At least I know from my experience that I often attend institutions simply because I want communication to be close to their advantage. If you call someone, you are much more distant and, of course, much more so when you are directly located in another town or in any part of the country in Reykjavík. This arrangement involves creating some standard form of telecommunication. It's an arrangement that I would like to be standardized in our general society, it would be just a personal thing to keep a meeting with no notice without having to organise it specifically. Technology may not offer it everywhere today, but it is quite close. While it may seem strange to talk about certain software in the Generals, a little like talking about certain types of cars, I'm going to do it anyway. The report on the proposal that I am using benecid, a co-tailer, and a thank - you for the first messenger to offer it, is known as software such as Skype for Business, Zoo, or GoToveed. I have to admit, I don't know the two others. I know what Skype for Business and Skype in general. As a result, my mind is that there is something important when we talk about software, it's not only access to software users, it's also access to computer systems so people don't have to use certain systems. It can be very barrier when some software is available only for a specific operating system. Of course, everyone is often expected to use Windows, which, fortunately, is not the case, but people are only to be allowed to select the software and hardware that they want, and the software should not tell people what to use. In other words, the software should preferably be what is called an open software. An open software is such that anyone can check the code on it, fool it if it wants to, and usually it always acts on the whole operating system because the people with the strange operating system, like the one here, simply adapts the software to their needs. It's a bioavailability. It matters. In fact, I'm going to mention in that relationship specifically, people for study, that there is an excellent phenomenon called Jitsi.org. It needs nothing but standard hardware and browsing, and fine network connections, even more than a poor network connection usually works. That couldn't be simpler. You don't have to sign in, you don't have to buy anything. You simply enter, and another person enters the same path that begins the conversation. It's really that simple. I mention it here because I think it's important when you go to such a station that you think that it's not only that it's simple for one person but that it's open, that your standards are open, that you can use software that's actually available to all. In fact, there is a real problem in Icelandic administration that is way too much into closed software and special solutions that can't be released. That's a very common, very serious problem, in my opinion. I'm not going to discuss it much here. I just think it's part of this if this is to be so that telecommunications become part of the everyday life or normal relations with the institutions of the State. This is what I wanted to come to. Other than that, I welcome the case and expect it to go through if it gets a complete payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u35	A respectable president. That's a good suggestion. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir is right here. Someone may feel that she is not overreached, but she is important and important. That scene is familiar as it is today. In his talk about problems with connections and real communication, the senator drew up. Most, let me say, government agencies, mediumsized and larger, have control of the so-called telecommunications system. For a while, it was quite a factor for communication through telecommunications but then it subsided and we struggled to keep these communications together, since a little difficulty was developing in a constant relationship. Everything seemed to go the same way. But such equipment exists, although it is out - of - date today, since we are looking back some years, probably a decade or more. I remember the first telecommunication group, by reason of it. paritaprevir Njáll Friðbert Traustason mentioned the University of Akureyri, a nursing school in Isafjörður. Some of them made good use of telecommunications. The students who studied there all graduated with an itch. So I think that's why I'm suggesting. A senator's life includes more, and it's good to have a limited start. [[Up front.]] Of course, we need to remove some obstacles, and the most difficult obstacles are the bonds of our spirit. There's no point in thinking that in this it can save a lot of money. Like what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson may have mentioned the most precious time. Getting back from work, working tables, and going to an hour - far away from home for a while to drive or fly home is not a good use of funds. The same is true today, when the objective is to reduce the number of public institutions and expand them, scatter them, that is something much more to think about. I would like to mention that there is experience in the use of these electronic devices in a variety of ways. We send important data and sensitivity safely between parts of the country and between countries, both health care and other data. I would like to point out that we need to promote this factor, e.g. in a health - care program that has often been described as a remote health service. It's a test project going on in Klausri, for example. It contains data, pictures, and conversations that are safe between them because they are confused on both ends. We've got a lot of shit going on here. I would like to emphasize that this modest suggestion involves much more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u36	Madam President. There may not be much more to say than this. I just missed the beginning of the discussion. Nevertheless, this is one of the many things I have talked about at the council. When I was serving in the mountainous region, we found it more expensive to send a representative of both the major part and the memory of the section to Reykjavík for a 15 - minute meeting with a financial committee. I suggested that we request a telecommunication. We were meeting through telecommunications for the first few years after Sigludur and Ólafjörður were united in the Mountain settlements because there were no Hinnsland tunnels then and a long way to go through wintertime so all of us went through telecommunications except local meetings. Then we sat in the same place, the county government, in exchange for Olafurdir and Siglusun. Then it came up. This was the case with a financial committee, and it was of great importance. Then other delegates could sit down, i.e. Local agents. This also increases democracy, not only with local governments, but also in service to the scattered areas and institutions there. I think it's very important that this is done. It is really amazing that in 2018, let us be in a position to discuss this, that it is not just done and done. But we face that fact. There's a lot of talk here. I like a word out of it. A senator who before me talked about the bond of mind because I think it's a good idea that people are making a lot of money and think it's a lot better place to meet. Of course, it is often and often good, but there is also much waste of time; people don't have to get up and pay a lot of money for it; it is also a time away from home where people work even though they are trying to use the time to meet more people and do more. It is very important that telecommunications are growing, that we reduce the fact that people have to travel long distances to attend even a short meeting. I think it's a good thing. This was called a remote health service. There are so many things we can take advantage of in this context of psychological care and other things, which are good to have an opportunity to work through telecommunications. It's quite soon that we're getting used to meeting. It is not as if there are any ancient equipment available. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson damped earlier is a perfectly nice tool for handling this. I think it's very important that the group listed here bring a real system of induction with a time frame so it won't be done in many stages. It's not supposed to be that complicated, but the Ministry isn't many, so it should be possible to do this in a very short time, I think. I will follow it to the highest level of my council. Whether the matter is going to be done or not, the prime minister will start this work. This sort of Senate business is often lost in committees, and you have to choose if you're going to get a case through it. But I feel lonely to do this, so it can be done in a relatively short time and not necessarily cost a lot of money. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for bringing this matter in here. I will discuss it with my minister and follow after she starts this job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u37	A respectable president. I recommend a synonym on patient payment, on behalf of the first carrier, please. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, and Group of Groups of the United States together. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide a health minister from a health care professional as required by the National Institutes of Health, No. 40/2007, and the maximum health insurance payment for medical care outside the medical facility should be $35,000. each year, as well as reducing the share of the elderly and disability at the health of dentists. Regarding the suggestion that the Council was first introduced to the 146th legislature but has not been completed and is now reassigned. According to 2 mg. 1st par. patient rights, No. 74/1997, it is forbidden to differentiate between patients on the basis of the economic situation. Yet, in recent years the cost of public health care has greatly increased and has become a major problem for many. Iceland is increasingly delaying medical attention because of costs, and the situation is particularly poor among the low income. A change in health insurance law was recommended, so the health costs of health care paid by a health care professional were applied to reduce the highest paying rate, especially the long list of patients. The adjustment, however, was to be financed only by the transfer of costs to other patients. This results in a substantial increase in the cost of the primary number of patients with intercurrent medical costs, including the cost of pensioners and other vulnerable groups, which are especially at risk of less medical care for expenses. Thus, the total cost of 85,000 of general patients would be increased by 31% and the total cost of 37,000 elderly and pensioners would be increased by 73%, according to the bill. The bill expected patients to pay up to a maximum of 95,200 k. every year. In the treatment of the case, a current health minister, although the maximum pay would not exceed 50,000, announced that it would be paid. every year. Transporters of this proposal still feel that it is too much payment, as well as that the promise is not in place, since a new government is under way. It is suggested that the health minister be committed to ensure that the patient's health care will not pay more than 35,000 dollars. In a year before medical care, health care will be free, and the cost of dentists and disability will be considerably reduced. The budget may be estimated to be about 7 billion dollars. every year. Intimacy or noncombatant health care may be objected to the fact that it will be abused and given the opportunity to control it will be lost. It's kind of a little less professional opinion. To answer, it is very expensive for the community if patients shrink from medical care and medical care. Such control also applies primarily to those who do not have medical care. If you have enough money, you don't have to think twice. Although the proposal would be accepted, better in the coming years, the cost of a patient's involvement would still be too high. For example, medicines are separated from other health care services and special pay factor systems are in place for them. As a result, the costs of patients requiring both medication and other health care providers may be up-titration within both systems. The combined cost of adult subjects within the same family is not taken into consideration. Thus, the total cost of household care for health care and medications may remain considerable. The cost of adult psychiatry remains the exception of the public payment of health insurance and can be very high. Thus, each treatment period in an independent professional psychologist is commonly found to be at a value of $12,000,15,000. It is therefore vital to increase the number of psychologists who work at clinics throughout the country. A realistic schedule of how and when health - free medical care can become realized is needed to correct matters. A respectable president. I expect this council's resolution to be celebrated and given a positive consideration on the welfare committee and the approval of the High General.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u38	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate this council proposal. Councilmen of the Conspiracy are putting forward here. This is a good requirement for the government to follow a policy in the present government contract, which says, by permission of the president: The government's aim is to reduce the patient's collection of health care systems, making it more beneficial and more efficient. The results of the current system need to be assessed in the light of the weakest people and considered factors that are not part of it, e.g. travel and living expenses, dentistry and psychology services. Our government's policy reflects the focus of the forward party for the last election, so I can certainly agree with any suggestions leading this way. Today, patients' credit party is 69,700K. for individuals based on information on the Homepage Medical Security, this is for the general user and more than 46,000 U.S. for children, the elderly, and the poor. Thus, the maximum cost for a family of four people, consisting of two adults and two children, can be more than 230,000. every year. This is, of course, except for the cost of travel, housing costs, and loss of employment. It is important to introduce more factors into the credit system, such as psychological service and dental expenses. In fact, it is very special that these factors are separated. But this discussion also reminds us of the inequities that people enjoy because of access to health care in many lands. This may be a huge cost to individuals and families on top of stress because of sickness and disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, give Halla's Signý Kristjánsdóttir. Hv. A member of the United States noted in his counter an important point, such as the travel expenses of long - distance servants. In some ways, individuals and families who need to be away from home and for a long time go to Reykjavík, in some cases in other places. But there is enough to meet the discomforts and costs and the time it takes. As we know, e.g. in Reykjavík, often very difficult to find a place for individuals, I do not talk about if you are a family. Our good insurance systems need to work hard to meet the population of the country that experiences that the service is in the middle of nowhere. We must not be proved to pull our feet away from the land in this way, without any opposition and financial support to obtain a service that is minimal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u40	Madam President. We'll discuss members of Congress on patient payment. I mean, we don't have much to talk about. This suggestion is well - thought - out, and it is actually very time for us to take such a talk. In fact, we should always be accepting that discussion at the council, for it is of great importance that the community we want to call a welfare community stands under the name and that the citizens really believe that they will receive the services they need when they need it. It's very important. I agree with what happened earlier that in some ways it might be said that the content of the proposal is narrower than the material, but it may be a good start. However, many health - care projects and access to health care are at least as important as having it free. For example, it is designed to make a small language like having access to a medical doctor. That's a big deal, too. You wonder, " Is it more important to secure this access than to make sure that those who already have a doctor can approach him without charge? ' The Senator what? The Guðjón S. Brjánsson of Grison also knows that this is also the policy of the government that is now reducing the expense of patients, and that's a good thing. I believe this proposal is important in this discussion. I believe that. The welfare committee will examine it carefully, especially those factors. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir mentioned earlier, e.g. for travel costs, how the costs of trips are covered with the inhabitants of the country in terms of access to services. It has to be said at the moment, and I've said it before in the House of II that it is not acceptable how we as a community have made this decision. We have somehow decided that all services cannot be performed everywhere. It's probably in a health - care field, you can't set up operating rooms anywhere, you can't set up complex medical services anywhere. Since we have decided that it is not possible, however, we must also arrange for those living in those places and those who live away from the ministry to have equal access to the ministry, naturally within the limits allowed by their livestock, but that the State will share in the cost of it. I think it's very important. Like what? Councilmen are no doubt aware of the present government as it begins to reduce the cost of pensioners. I certainly hope that this will continue to be the way of the next budget. I look forward to having a big part. paritaprevir The Guðjón Brjánsson Krenson and others on the welfare committee are discussing the proposal and how we can use it and its material to ensure better service for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u41	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize your unemployment insurance law, No. 54/2006, of prisoners' reform rights. My importers are down. paritaprevir Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's Leví, Björn of Gunnarsson, Þóln K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Jóndor Valdimarsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friduksson and Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason. I'm gonna grab a little bit of this report, chief. President. The bill is based on primarys for changes in older unemployment insurance laws, No. 12/1997, who were submitted to several councils, but were not paid up. The bill was changed slightly during three more Congresss, but it did not get paid. Unemployable insurance is intended to ensure temporary financial support for individuals while looking for work, as given the guidelines of Article 2. Law on unemployment Insurance, No. 54/2006. Among the general terms that individuals are considered to be guaranteed by the law, they are employed as wage workers or individually in a pre-employment period, such as the e- teams of 1 mg. 13th par. and the E team 1st mg. 18th par. The law. Any who serve a penalties or sit in custody do not always have work as law No. 54/2006 clean up, and thus they do not earn the right to unemployment during their lifetime. True, if you are legally committed to the law and disappear from a workforce when you take out the sentence in a court of law, you can keep the acquired unemployment insurance until you have completed a sentence, as 1 mgr. Twenty-seven. track No. 54/2006. This, however, applies to a smaller part of a prisoner, since most of them have not been employed regularly before the end of the sentence. As a result, more often than not, prisoners outside the unemployment insurance system will be able to recover, but this makes it harder for them to get back on track after the loan is over. According to the movers, the current system increases the risk of reuniting and thus violates the objective of the criminal defense system and helps individuals who have turned their backs on the magazine. So the bill suggests that if a prisoner is made up of proof from the prison authorities works, studies, or training that is available within the relevant prison, according to the law on the ultimate penalty, No. 15,2006, compare 25th and 26. The law says that he earns the right to unemployment money because of the period as if he had been working on a job that's been paid. As a result, those who have completed their sentence can be considered secure, although they do not qualify as remuneration, as per Article 3. track No. 54/2006, previously referred to, and although they do not meet the salary-employment criteria during the work period, as per section 1. 13th par. The law. However, other conditions of insurance protection, such as active job search and residence, must be met, as per the a- and c series of the same paragraphs. For the period in which an individual sits in custody or serves a penitentiary and is employed, work, study or training should be performed in accordance with the law on the full punishment, in line with the development of a 15th strategistic process. track No. 54/2006, in calculating the bail rate. If an individual has, e.g. in the last 12 months before applying for unemployment benefits, two months of penalties, and the course of work, study, or training should be completed and a full - time job should be completed two months, allowing the individual to feel secure in one third part, as 2 mgr. 15th ......., to other conditions fulfilled. In accordance with the above, it is suggested that the regulations of the 53rd par. The law says that there is a limit to unemployment insurance for a decommissionment in the time when punishment is taken into prison, a decommissionation by a judge's decision, or an assessment of the punishments of community service.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u42	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of psychology services in high school. Transporters, as well as those listed here, are a whole group of members of the United States Group. The suggestion reads as follows: The General concluded to hide the Minister of Education and Culture to make sure that from the year 20188/2019 that all students in the higher schools will ensure access to psychological services within the school's walls without cost. Ministers have consulted Iceland's Teacher Association and Iceland's Psychological Association on the form of the ministry, including for treatment given, the number of students per psychologist, etc. In part, this proposal stated that this proposal was first proposed to the 145th, a legislature, and not to be reimbursed at the 146th legislative Council, and is now reimbursed a second time. A white dictionary for education and cultural reforms published in June 2014 stated that only 44% of Icelandic high school students complete their studies at their scheduled time. Young people disappear from studies and will be long - suffering in many areas of society and are already being seen. This is partly due to poor mental health in this country, but suicide is the main cause of death among young men in Iceland. This problem must be met, e.g. with increased availability for mental health care, but more is needed. Because of these pressures, teachers, schoolteachers, and guidance counselors who have different backgrounds, experience, and knowledge have grown to cope with the problem. Therefore, it is important to respond to the call and increase access to mental - health services within the school walls. Young people call for action from governments. The Internet Revolution I am not a taboo at the time called for a change in society's attitude toward mental illness and to point out the tremendous cost of seeking mental - health services. Then, at the end of November, the Union of Icelandic high school has repeatedly reasoned on the matter at its federal conventions. These include the increased availability of psychology services and mental health education within the high school country, including the U.S.A. In view of the growing pressure on students. The experience of school students who have followed the course of counseling psychologists, such as Dr. A few years ago, in Akureyri, a training school that began a research project followed by a report relating the experience and the unique means of approach. The result of the ministry was great for the students who benefited from it. The report shows that high attendance by students in the Psychological Service and the number of interviews given show that there is a need for such provisions. Then prejudice and shame will be negligible with the increased psychiatric demonstration within the school walls. Depending on the information presented in the report on individual courses, the service application is now more balanced than when it was first offered, indicating a link between performance and availability of the ministry. Governments have many responsibilities for high school students. That is shown in high school law. Two. it shows that high school is responsible for promoting the mature development of all students and their active involvement in a democratic society by offering each student a proper study. By 33rd. In an encouraging study environment, which includes their needs and their general well - being, all high school students have the right to be taught. According to the same law in the school community, every member should do his part in order to promote and maintain a good employee and a positive school venture. Under the Law, high school is to provide special support to students with special learning problems or illnesses. All the above factors involve their spiritual well - being and are designed to contribute to their spiritual well - being. In that way, a student's good spiritual well - being is important for his study results. In terms of 4 years of mental health policy and action programme adopted in April 2016, a minister is assigned to appoint a group of workers who offer proposals for mental development in play, core and higher schools and should be available no later than the end of 2017. There is nothing to suggest, however, that students in high school are guaranteed access to psychological services without cost. However, it can be agreed in a paper proposal to conclude that the school is the preferred platform for reaching as many children with mentalization and prevention. Must be considered that it also applies to high school. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir has, along with others, proposed a psychiatric resolution for the highest in public schools. A paper with this suggestion points to the fact that in the Government Treaty, the government puts special emphasis on prevention and human health and is specifically referred to as the educational system. While there is a need to promote mental - health activities in high schools, the need for this is just as urgent in high school. Takes the man who stands here with a complete mind. The aim of this proposal is that at the beginning of the school year 2018-2019, students in all high schools will have access to psychological services without any cost to cope with a fear - inspiring situation resulting from a lack of professional mental - health service. A minister is commissioned to expand the ministry in a manner that will be rendered. It must also be kept in mind that waiting for this kind of service may be bad for students, and it is important that students who need the ministry may arrive as soon as possible. Most people know about this. A respectable president. I hope this proposal is adopted by a welfare committee and that students of college and college can expect that important services in this field will be promoted the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u43	A respectable president. It's national politics. This morning, the Ministry of Ministry of Justice met with a financial committee and discussed the tremendous number of mental - health disability victims, more than 55% of the increase in the number of people in recent years as a result of mental disorders. If we fall into the figures in the colleges of the 18◯19th group, there are 1.3% of them in the disability of various cases, including mental illness. Based on the recently added ratio, this should be about half of those who are new due to mental disorders. Because it's a very young age group, that would probably be the right percentage of this 1.3%. In our comparator countries, this number is twice as low or that ratio. There's something missing in the figures we have here and the discussion that's going on that we have almost twice the rate of disability in the control countries. More than half of the people being added now, and there's been so much added recently, as a result of mental illness. We do not know whether a comparable wave is going on in the control countries, but the countries have other options that work, which catch people earlier. To get people back without dying into disability. Here's the problem with people getting onto other levels of disability, so there are very few people who work out again. That's very serious. We discussed the amount. In terms of the amount of money set up in those figures, there was a way that our high cost -- now I'm gonna be very careful about this - because of the increase in the rate of scarring, due to mental problems, I'm going to be about 5◯10 billion a year. I'll put a lot of notice on these numbers, but this is what we got next to this meeting. It would be very nice to get better numbers on this. Use of 51⁄210 billion a year, i.e. lower, in prevention, in other resources, and in rehabilitation to restore people - the benefits of doing so are vast. Not only is it enough for you to avoid using these 5◯10 billion in disability, but you will get people back into the work market, to study, and to make valuables, and to be an active member of the community. Plans for every person who is young in disability run on billions, just for one person. The money now spent on disability benefits, e.g. Because of mental problems, would it be so much better spent in health care, psychological services in high school and psychology services, as well as in the same case? The money is much better spent there, it comes back much better to us all. We should seriously consider starting this process as soon as possible, blocking the well. Unfortunately, it's open right now. Too many people have fallen into it. But we need to cover the well. Let's not delay it much longer. It should be clear to everyone, even if they are just looking at the numbers that lie in front of us in a very superficial way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u44	Madam President. I make a proposal to conspire about the right of children to know its origin. Besides me, it's a whisk. paritaprevir Poor Anna Sævarsdóttir with an importer. This suggests that the Council of Justice believes that the Minister of Justice to prepare a legal adjustment to ensure that children conceived by assisted reproductive techniques and sex - cell donors have the right to information about their origin. The bill of this material will be submitted to the Council no later than in January 2019. This suggestion was previously moved by the wind. A former council member of the Friðleifsdóttir Fräuleind on two occasions, but he was not granted the money. It suggests that the Minister of Justice will be assigned to prepare a legal adjustment to ensure that children conceived by assisted reproduction techniques and donor eggs and/or donor seeds have the right to information about their origin. Here, children conceived with ART do not have the right to learn who their biological parents are using a donor egg or a donor seed. Two. Section 4. eligibility of assisted reproduction techniques and the use of human sex cells and embryos for stem cell studies, No. 55/1996 is clearly stated that the wish of a person who made sex cells anonymously is required by healthcare professionals to ensure that this request will be respected. If so, do not give information about the sex cell donor who receives the sex cells or about the child or gives the couple information about the person who gave the sex cells. If not required, your child may ask for contact information about the sex cell donor. The rationale for allowing any anonymous sexual donor to be administered has, for example, been established. has it been that if anonymity was taken away, it would be less likely that sex cells would be used for assisted reproduction techniques, and those who needed the ministry would not have access to it because of insufficient supply. According to author William Arnason, from 2003 onward, the book Civility of Life and Death reveals that author Vilhjálmur Árnason, including Research in Sweden shows that although sperm transfusions have been greatly reduced in the first place after the law asked for a child's right to know the name of donors, the number of donors has increased again. Vilhjálmur also points out that the child's urgent interests must not be pushed aside just to correct a child's background and to relieve the suffering it may bring. As a result, the child may be used as a means to serve the parents'goals while ignoring the fact that he is an individual with independent rights and interests. Transporters believe that it is important that the rights of the person conceived by donor sex cells are placed in a foreground and guaranteed by law by an independent right to get information about their origin. By allowing an anonymous sexual donor, as is now being done, the right of an individual conceived in this way is violated. So if he needed information about his background, which is denied, there may be great anguish and anguish. At the same time, it is important to respect privacy and not force this information on individuals, since their need to approach it may vary considerably and in some cases may not be readily available. It is desirable, therefore, that information about origins be accessible to people. A Swedish 2007 report on parents who have an ART child by permission of a president, the Perishment of massocorticoid production, provides information on whether a child's right to know its origin is assured in the United Nations Children's Convention. The treaty was signed on behalf of Iceland in 1990 and validated in 1992. It includes international recognition of children as a group that needs special protection beyond adults. The covenant includes acknowledging that children are independent of their own rights, regardless of their adult rights. The covenant also includes a family that is the natural environment for the development and well - being of a child who will grow up in an environment of happiness, love, and understanding. It contains several principles that may include. to ensure the prohibition of discrimination, referred to Article 2. The covenant, that what is best for a child should always take priority when governments take steps that concern children, reference to Leviticus. Gr., the rights of children to life and maturity, quoted at 6. Gr., and the right of children to express themselves, which points to Article 12. United Nations children's covenant. Seven. The covenant also holds out the right of a child to be registered after birth, to receive a name, a citizenship, and to know about his parents, and to take care of them. The Swedish report states that this right of a child to know about his parents was primarily involved in the treaty with adopted children to know about their genetic parents. However, it has now been considered whether the provision also includes the right of children to know their origin when they have been able to use assisted reproduction techniques and the assistance of sex - cell donors. That understanding, however, has not yet been placed in the arrangement, and it is not sufficiently widespread in the member states of the covenant to be confirmed. However, the neighboring countries of Iceland and the countries that Iceland would like to compare with them have been the means to provide children with this right or to clear up a very relevant set of rules. The above report, the Swedish one I referred to earlier, also points to paragraph 8. The covenant is based on children's rights to self - image, i.e. right to maintain their identity as individual and hence Refer to family ties. It is important that the laws and rules are in accordance with Article 3. The covenant and the two showed that what is best for a child is in the foreground. In view of the psychological and social consequences that children may have in the absence of information about their origin, it is important to change the rules of children's access to that information and also ensure that there is no doubt that Icelandic law complies with the rules of the children's covenant. It is strictly stated in Sweden that children conceived with assisted reproductive techniques should be aware of their origin, such as 5. Chapter 6 and chapter 7. Chapter 7 of Swedish law No. 2006-351, for genetic immunity. Other neighboring countries have also taken similar steps. In fact, the evolution rate has been slow in Denmark, but until 2011, children there were not the right to be informed of their origin. However, this has been changed, and now individuals who have reached 18 years of age may receive information about sex - cell donors if they do not wish to be anonymous. In Finland the law was changed in 2006, in that a child who is 18 years old has the right to learn about his origin. In 2005 the law was converted into both Norway and Britain, and then those who give sex cells cannot require anonymous names. It is clear that at 18 years of age a child can be provided with information about his or her sex cell source. Swedish governments have published a comprehensive summary under the name Mismunandi ways to become a parent. The report discusses overall the trends and increased potential of parenthood in the past few years, including parenthood. Because of increased technology, and the opinions presented in this series. This includes: For a summary of several studies, see how knowing about sex parents affects the child later in life. See page 5 of this magazine. Two hundred forty-seven hundred and twenty-five, noble president. From the above, it is evident that in many places the attempt has been made to make sex - cell donors anonymous, since it is considered important to ensure that a person's right to know his origin. It is necessary for Iceland to take the same step as raising its legislation on this matter. To create a bill in which individuals would be guaranteed the right to learn about their origin, it is important to look to the experience of the law of our neighbors. The above reference to Swedish law has been made, and the movers stress that there will be special eyes on that law at work. Many things have also been written in this area, and many experts have taken care of the matter. Thus, during the bill work, it is proper to consult medical, ethical, psychological, legal, and human rights at the same time. It is not particularly suggested that a minister should set up a team to win the bill, but it is in his hands to evaluate which route will be taken, although it is also possible to think that a specialist or specialist will be assigned to work on the bill, but they can then seek out other experts as needed and in accordance with the above. V.E.G. President. Since this is an important matter of rights, it is suggested that Ministers give no later than 1 January 2019 a bill to the Council. Should the time be sufficient for the outworking of the situation, since it is possible to look to the condemnation of our neighboring nations, as experience has already taken place in the implementation of comparable laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u45	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to fix names. In this matter, there is a whole group of restorations. The members of the council of Helgi, Hophn, the Hrafn of Gunnarsson, and the Guðjón of Hamon, the son of Brjánsson. This is not the first time that this unique law applies to people in this country to names of people, laws that prevent the right parents from ruling their children's name and that people have the right to their own name. Let's hope this time the fossil succumbs to it. Most people will likely agree that few things are as personal as their own. The same is true of parents'decision on their child's name. This certainly does not mean that people cannot have strong opinions about the names of others, from believing that whole languages are standing and falling by the fact that the state is there, and that it simply has an opinion of what names are beautiful and acceptable and what names they are and what are not. I would certainly agree with a group of people that sometimes have a certain opinion of names, but I have not yet experienced such dissatisfaction that I feel it justifys public surveillance of the nominees. If such a situation occurs, it is simply natural for the child - welfare authorities to intervene. If parents are willing to give their child such information, in effect, it is very positive that such evidence of neglect comes up immediately in the original language rather than later on on the way and with full respect for the fine people appointed by human committees I believe that other authorities, such as child - welfare authorities, are better qualified to be the instructors of Icelandic children and young people. Also, I do not believe that the Icelandic language is standing and falling by the fact that names are in accordance with the Icelandic language, taking a form of ownership, or performed a tradition in the case, to quote current renovations, let alone the maximum number of individual names, between middle names and names, between women's names and men's names, etc. Once more recently this week, parents'battle against the Human Name committee was reported, this time in which the committee did not approve Alex's female name. This case in itself does not differ from other matters that regularly arise, but the following gave me special attention in the morning report, with permission of the president: ▪ When we last received a denial - they've tried before - in the logic of the Human Name Committee that they've agreed on a few names for both sexes, it would be understandable that we thought we could get this changed, but the tradition of the man's name Alex was old, and there was nothing to say they needed to change it. According to the Commission, the name falls to the Icelandic language system and it would not be a problem for girls, but because of tradition it cannot be changed. Who is being cooperated with by this arrangement, a respectable president? The stated objective of the currently existing human name law includes Work to preserve the Icelandic human name store and the Icelandic renovations. Such thinking simply does not belong in modern society. If Icelanders in general want to preserve Icelandic names and names tradition, and personally I believe that they do, they themselves do this without the help of a particular government in public committees or institutions. Another objective of current legislation after the last adjustment is to right the part of foreigners who move to the land so that they are not forced to accept names as they once were. For that positive step, you should be grateful. In fact, I can say here a short story from the reality of my own family where the conditions for my father, the Danish Torben Frederiksen, were given the Icelandic citizenship of the 1950's were not merely that his last name would be Icelandic, Friðriksson, but would be adopted as the Icelandic personal name which was above the Danish, which gave him the plus. My father, Karl, agreed, and in his 20's, a new Icelander came into being known as Friðrik Torben Friðriksson. The new Icelander held onto Haguet, and took advantage of his right as an Icelandic citizen and got his first name canceled. So, these kind of exercises are unnecessary today, and a man named the foreign state's address gets the name of the U.S. government, and he can be fully named, as the current law says. Now, however, a large percentage, even growing, of the country's population are people born abroad and with foreign civil rights. Modern renditions do not include this group, which may thus allow itself to choose names of their children without interference from the public. Similarly, in a foreign country, there is an increasing number of marriages in which another married couple is foreign. Then the fossil wakes up. The Icelandic state wants to interfere with the names of children, one of the foreign names can be found in the New World Translation. Then, as is known, the name of children shared by two Icelandic citizens is even more narrow. A human name law has been valid in Iceland since 1914. New laws were accepted in 1925, 1991, and 1996. Since then, a human commission has been designed to determine the fulfillment of the law in question cases. During the 1900's, they became a large part of the civil rights debate, but by the end of the century, criticism was becoming more evident on the basis of human rights, on the basis of self - determination rights and self - image. In fact, the laws on names of people as they are now lead to violations of the Constitution's equal rule. Foreigners who become Icelandic citizens may remain unchanged in their original name while others obey the rules of human names. In recent years, the General Parliament has put in prime messages to put down the Human Name Committee and Human Name and to hide the role of the Interior Minister of Human Name Committee. On the other hand, there is a change that goes too far that people in other ways want to get rid of the anxiety in these matters. The objective of the bill presented here includes to ensure the right person to have the name or name they choose and to ensure that laws about names do not limit people's personal rights or people's freedom to define themselves. The bill on changes in current human names was last submitted to the General Assembly of 144th, but it did not succeed. Although the bill was physically similar, in certain areas it was less likely. Here, for example. suggest that personal names and middle names not be distinguished and that children's identification names be eliminated. For example, what this bill listed here is based on the bill submitted last in the 144th legislation Council. Extinct of women's names and boys of male names, that names should not be violated by the Icelandic language system, and that names should not be out of the question. Then it is proposed that the Human Name Committee be put down and all the regulations concerning it be removed. This bill, then, is based on the report of the last bill on changes in human names as appropriate. Because of the wide range of changes in current human names in the bill, it is reasonable to submit a bill for new total laws instead of a change in existing law. This new bill has three chapters instead of nine in current law. I'm going to skate a few things on it. In chapter I, for a full name and a name, it is mentioned in 1. par.: Everyone has a right to his name. The person's full name is his or his personal name and name. Each person should have a personal name and a name. So here simply it is that intermediate names are made of the law, and middle names in use can either be registered as a personal name or a family name depending on what the name of the name is. Two. 1st par. is a teaching to parents. According to this, a theory to parents of a child mentioned during ART also falls. That portion of the law is consistent with the current law. Furthermore, identification of all names is required so that after a personal name or personal name comes the name of a parent or parent in a form of property, plus a son, a daughter, a child, or a brush. This law is 3 mg. 1st par. It is consistent with the requirements of valid laws that add that a nominal name can take an end child or bear. A brush is an indistinguishable term of the same strain as a bear or a child. This term was proposed by the Council of '78 in 2015 as second choice instead of the passing -son or daughter, and an ending child can play the same role. There is no reason to limit people's choices to just one of the two. Then it is proposed that only an undead child be taught to his grandfather, we add to our grandmother, as well as that it is permitted to use a family name as a last name. In such cases, it is not mandatory to teach a child to a parent or to a parent. There's lots of skates around here. The bill also insists that a child gains a name only by announcement to Iceland's National Publications Index. The change is made from the current law that a child does not receive a name at baptism in the State Church, a registered religion, or a life - support society; rather, it is by announcement to national records. For registration of a name to the Iceland National Publications Index, the sex of a child must also be registered. It is permitted to register gender as either male, female, or otherwise. Every individual is required to change the registry of gender, and this authority should be subject to the same rule as the authority to change a name according to these laws. Although this bill name is a bill for a song on human names, it is not possible to find this command anywhere else in the law, so it was added here to simplify the adjustment. Then, at last, I will review certain regulations to mention that under the heading on the change of names, it is simply a law in paragraph 4. that each person is allowed to change his or her name. Thus, restrictions are taken from the law according to the bill. A respectable president. This series contains chapters about the right to name, about Icelandic tradition, and about the language system of the Icelandic language. Then there are the rights of children. Finally, there is a chapter on transnational rights, but existing laws are very limited to transversian people, and they do not reflect the diversity of our community, whether in connection with sexual relations, or in the rightness of individuals to change their names. By specifying specifically what are women's names or names, the lawgiver is limiting the individual's freedom to define himself and his gender. In other words, it is a impairment that is very close to the person, the impairment of their important and personal freedom. For Icelandic society, it is far more rewarding to name the names they choose than to keep the rules and bans of today's current human names. The purpose of this discussion is freedom. A respectable president. For about a thousand years, the Icelandic people had the absolute freedom to name their children the names they chose. This freedom yielded to the tradition of names that the Council in recent decades saw as the need to establish by means of a special human name law and by a committee of human names. Is it not time to trust people with their names again? It's a public interest, isn't it? I hope to see this subject handled quickly and effectively with a positive report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u46	V.E.G. President. It is fascinating to listen to messengers of freedom and liberality, to trust people. I can totally agree with that. But none of those senators here could trust people to buy alcohol except at the government store. None of them, but well. That's not much of a liberal thing to do. I have to admit that the conservative only got me under control now, not that... [[I don't need much.]] Yes, it sometimes takes a lot of effort. Not that you can help and cross this and change it. But then you read here that the right to name is protected by a Constitution, and you talk about privacy. I want to ask you why. A senator whether the right not to bear a name is not protected too. Because this is a requirement, an obligation to bear a name. If I don't want to have a name, I don't have a right? That's a very interesting question. Besides, I'm wondering because we talk a lot about people's feelings. What can sometimes be harmful, we forbid it; some are harmful; there are limitations because it can be harmful. Given the names you have often seen that people want to give to their children, we can be sure that they would be harmful to many children. [[Here's the deal: It's the Children's Protection Act.]] That's what the Child Protectors are for! Will child - welfare authorities become involved? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] It's not gonna happen. People can give any name. I'm a woman's name. I'm allowed to give my son a woman's name. [[Up front.]] According to this, no. [[The president calls.]] Do people believe that this will not be harmful to any child? I don't believe in being liberal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u47	Yeah. I thank you for the predictable interesting discussion and look forward to a discussion on a prospective alcohol bill. About the right not to have a name, that's just a great question. According to this, they have the right to use the math symbol 0 or to have some infinity or emptiness in those symbols, I can't remember the main mathematical symbols. I have no idea that the Court of Human Rights has ruled in this case. It's just a great question. Is the social security number all by itself? That's a question. Then I suppose you're going to accept that it's always being used as an ID instead of a name you'd expect, or what? Nice ladies over middle age as if I don't always exist in it, but who knows? This is interesting. But for fun's sake, this is an interesting discussion. You're absolutely right, this isn't the kind of thing that's being cleaned up. I hope the committee is seriously discussing this. Regarding the possible cause or the possibility that such a name could cause harm to children. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Doves of Níelsson's son, how many parents do harm to their children today, I tend to insist. A senator is only right in that vision. But I am convinced that child - welfare authorities are the right person to intervene in this area rather than in a human committee. I also find it very difficult to imagine that a parent who is stopped today by the Human Name Committee from causing such damage to his child would be an exemplary parent in other respects.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u48	V.E.G. President. Let me get this straight, then, so the Children's Protection Authority would, for example. if I mentioned my son Hitler or Stalín? Can it be understood as a child protection issue? Is the Children's Protection Authority, then, to be the New Human Name Committee? Maybe. But I also want to look at this from other sources, because we're often talking about cultural value, we're always protecting cultural value. We place obligations and restrictions on the rights of property because we are protecting cultural value. I'm not free to do anything with my house because the government has decided that it should be protected, declared, or whatever. We accept it because that house is culturally valuable. This human tradition is cultural value to me. Of course, although we can help and not be as rigid as it is now, these are cultural value anyway. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u49	Yes, thank you. Twice. My answer from the harm caused by parents who baptized them some anonymously; the answer was not the name. Children's authorities don't intervene for one reason, I imagine, that a name is given, but because it is harmed to the baby. It was the opening point of the question. Senator. Then tradition. I hope we have no agreement on what the Icelandic language, its evolution, and its existence are important to Icelandic culture. But I believe that the importance of evolution is just as important. It's a living language. I'm much more concerned about the future of Icelandic people if we encourage them to be such commandments and bans because people will find ways to go by, they'll stop living as our friend. [[The president calls.]] The English language is to be a friend of Icelandic culture and Icelandic people. That's where this approach of mine comes from. [[The president calls.]] I'm not worried about the development of the Icelandic language by giving it freely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u50	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this bill. It is very well presented and logical. There was one thing I cut as I've been interested in lately: Why would you have a name if we cut off the middle names and make them part of the name? Why not have that, too? I could just name Leví, but not Gunnarsson's son or Gunnarsson's son would be part of my name, as perhaps people will choose. I was wondering if it wasn't normal to walk even farther than is suggested in view of the background here, there was a child and a bear, some limitations there. At any rate, I often end up with the middle name Leví, not my last name. People are always missing that name as a family name. Where's the Levite family name from? No, I'm named after my great-great-grandfather. This was also his middle name, Björn Leví. It's just my name. There's always a little conflict in me between family names and not family names or names and family names. Why not just have that name? That's a simple question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u51	I appreciate that. Clearly, we have been too conservative in our approach to the matter. It is certainly a requirement for each individual to have both his or her personal name and then hername or hername name. However, the change is allowed to use the last name, which in that case would solve it. But I really can't answer this in any other way than by saying, if I may, by Mr President's permission, so to speak. A senator has caught me naked.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. The next thing I was interested in learning more about is the length, the number of names, and the total number of names, which are now a problem. I didn't quite get it. I didn't quite get it. Was there a peak, or are we going to the Spanish route where we could have some really many names, which I think would be exciting?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u53	A respectable president. Thank you for the question. The answer is that there are no restrictions on it in the bill, either on the length of individual names or on the number of others. If we continue to talk about national records, they'll either be legally or not updating their databases and then reveal problems, we know what it's like that computer sometimes says no, i.e. The window, it's something that humans tackle when it comes to it. But this is clearly one of the interesting things to discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u54	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to set up names. It's about a lot of interesting bill. I think that's exactly what we said in a case. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, perhaps we have been more conservative in the way we have set these matters up so far. Still, there are some things I have to check out on the bill. I agree with what was said earlier, but I think that the name tradition of the Icelanders is a very important thing and an important part of our cultural heritage, so it can't be taken lightly to take a step in changing it. There's no statement in the bill what a personal name is. What could be a personal name? Actually, the only clue to how to deal with it in the bill, as far as I can see, is some legal authority for Ministers. Should a minister be authorized to set rules that determine what personal names should be? Should the Minister set limits on how many there should be, e.g. if at any point, it is difficult to place all the names in a national file or what? Is it not better to deal with this in the bill simply and not have some legal rights for a minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u55	Thanks for a good answer. Maybe I'll start by answering the question about the Regulation. There's talk of guilty if people don't register names in a national file. It is not to consider making a decision about names to a minister. Regarding the question of the difference between personal names and identification names, it is the very opening point, giving it free. I'll connect to the first half by the oar. A senator, i.e. The concern of our man-name tradition. I so wholeheartedly agree that it is important to us. But there's a possible difference between us and different viewpoints, for I even feel that this is a better way to protect tradition than to give it free, those who want to maintain tradition do it voluntarily. We're changing. Society is changing. The effects are widespread. The latest of our Icelanders can be seen, i.e. Our football teams, our son, and my daughter, who support my mind. I now belong to the daughters' team, even though I am a son of our father. That's just our tradition. I'm not more concerned about this than I am with many other things that define us as a nation without being encouraged by law and order.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u56	Mr. President. I am one of those who are concerned about the English language and its protection. I suppose it's safe to say that I think of almost every day how we can protect our tongue. Does the senator know that other nations have any rules about human names or that there are laws regarding what the children should be called and what they should be? We have a relatively rigid law on the tongue in Iceland and how to protect it. In English - speaking lands, that law is not nearly as rigid, at least not as I know. We can understand what the Icelanders said, or at least Read what they said a thousand years ago. Those speaking the English language cannot read what was written in the English language a thousand years ago. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u57	Thank you. I don't know exactly where and how rules apply in certain countries. I know, though, that somewhere such rules exist through rules and things like that, but not necessarily by law. I don't know how the Human Committee works anywhere but here, I don't know how to do that. There are some rules about the so - called intermediate names and crosslines between if this is to be called a personal name or a middle name. So it is true that somewhere such laws are made. I think, though, I can still say they don't feel more strict than in this country. So, finally, I'd like to make a decision that we share our love for the Icelandic language and the culture it has given us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u58	A respectable president. I have to tell you right now, I have the greatest respect for what's happened. paritaprevir Katrín Friðrk's Friðriksson for being so diplomatic about this matter. I have a personality problem that makes me a little angry at the more I think and talk about it. I'm gonna try to control myself today, but I'm still going to be rather blunt and review some of the things that are often mentioned in this discussion. One thing is that we have here in Iceland certain traditions. It's tradition that I'm Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, after my father's first name, his personal name, which I like very much. I like being taught to my dad. He's a great guy, if that's the case. There is no perplexing basis for limiting people's freedom in this way, it's simple. There are absolutely unpredictable reasons for limiting people's freedom in this way. It's just not important enough. It doesn't concern people enough, it's that simple. But what if people in town don't follow tradition, I care about this tradition, and I'm going to keep it, and I know very few people who have told me they would do something else, know some but not many. Because we like fun, I like fun, I like it. Not because the government told me, but because I'm brought up here in Iceland and I love this particular tradition personally. If people believe that these traditions are important in some political sense, I expect them. If not, they are not that important. How would we determine whether they are important or not? Yes, out of the community's ambition to keep them. If society doesn't want to keep them, they're not important according to a whole new definition. Although I'm having a terrible time at this particular tradition. Despite my having fun, I might still want to change it before my name became so out of control all the time, I thought I'd change it. I wanted to change it at the time to the Helgi of Hrafn Kristínar og Gunnarsson's son. That is in harmony with the Icelandic editor, but I was not allowed to do so. It had to be the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, who's completely out in the field if you're going to write someone's name in my opinion and my language sense and my sense of speech. Then I'm trying to expand tradition and make it better. It must not be because the government has decided that it should tell me which tradition is important to me, which is absurd. It's so different that we're just not all boys and girls. I'd probably stay Gunnarsson because I'm a boy, I'm a boy, and I don't think being a boy, I think it's nice, personally, ending a lot of its privileges, but that's another story. They're full of people who aren't there, and they may want to be known as Hrafn Gunnarsbur's Helgi, or the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsbarn's Child, but in tradition, give us more freedom to hold onto tradition and make it richer and more valuable. But this is not to be done because the government wants us to keep doing this the way it was long ago. And most importantly, I could be the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnar, just by property drop. Why not? I like it, I like it new, it's fun a little family name, but it doesn't. I like it, I think we should have the freedom to play with our names when we want to. To say that, I'm not going to change my name in the near future, although it can, of course, change. I hope so, i.e. If this bill becomes the law today. Like what? paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son said: " These are cultural value. Yes, I agree personally, and people can simply celebrate them, no one is suggesting that their traditions be banned or removed or taken away. Just that we're not messing around in one another's private affairs when it comes to holding onto these traditions. Now I'd like to reiterate that we're not talking about human health or financial stability, we're talking about tradition, for Christ's sake, a respectable President. A piece of all things. One of the things also mentioned in these things is an Icelandic tongue, and I am concerned about them. Today, the English language is not a dead language. We're constantly creating new words, changing language patterns, tiny localities, actually not much in Iceland but still something. Some have never used the mechanism, I have noticed, and some are slightly different from others. It's just fun, and that's part of what makes the language fun; that's what I say to be an expert about languages and, especially, English. But also Icelandic names develop. Here's a senator named Óli. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, his name is Óli. One day it was short on Ólafur, and here we have another. paritaprevir Ólafur of Þór Gunnarsson. At some point this name, Óli, became more personal, people began to experience the shorter name as a larger part of a person, and they wanted to name their children in that way. Yesterday, the story came about Alex, a four-year-old girl who can't be named Alex. I know a woman named Alexandra, but she's called Alex. I always call her Alex, and everyone I know always calls her Alex. She can't be Alex's name, that's all. Was it because the government thought it might be a problem for some members of the council? Society to bother? No, it's just Alex, it's dead. It's nothing more serious than that. Aha, now I need to calm myself down again, because I get so angry at thinking about this, let alone talk about it aloud. The same is true of two genders. First, there is unnecessary overfaith in Icelandic society on the importance of either a man's name or a woman's name. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. We can think about human beings without regard for gender. We can do that, it's not some big mystery how you do it. Second, there are simply more than two genders. It's not just the two of them, there's more of them. And at the end, I allow myself to assert that freeness of a gift is not widely designated or read when threatened by the Icelandic language. Technical advances and bifocals of Iceland, i.e. That they speak English is a threat to the English language. That's where we're supposed to be. In the past, we discussed how we should react to it and resist it. Not that a woman's name is Alex, it's ridiculous. It is sometimes mentioned in this discussion that your name in a national file is just a version recorded by the state, but you can call yourself something else. Oh, thank you so much for calling me Alex what's-her-name, thank you terribly liberal Iceland for letting me do that. First, it is offensive to the idea that individuals are above their heads free. This is an insult to the idea that the State is in service to individuals in the community, not vice versa. Let's start there. Second, a name has only meaning to a person as his symptoms. One of the reasons I hear when someone says "Helgi" is because it's part of my characteristics, and it's just in touch with the community I'm in. It's only associated with other people whose names are important or have a head of translation, and that's the way it is in Iceland, the magnificent computerized Iceland, that we look up names in the national file, we do it in our peers. When we receive the mail, our companies will be up to the National Book. We're using a national file to record names, what else are we documenting? If this is not to be the names we use, if this is not meant to be our identity, why are we documenting them in the first place, why don't we just use social security numbers? This argument is totally self-concerned. We're talking about the name of a person registered in a national registry, in this central registry that's all right with me. It's no use saying that you have the freedom to call people something else, that's a ridiculous argument. What about the children? You might have a special fistula about that question. As if I didn't get tired of calling them out, it wasn't the purpose of the law to protect children, this law was never about children. The Human Name Committee is not about children. The law makes no distinction between the names of children and adults. The reason for these laws is very clear. They're for the protection of Icelandic names. That's the purpose of the law, that's what they were given, that this thing with the children just isn't relevant. So the law has nothing to do with it, it just so happens that there are children in society as well, and they need names, too. And, indeed, the law indicates that names are to be named, and people should be named naturally. Yeah, but maybe we don't, we'll talk it over with a committee better. Like what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's son was right in front of it. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, it's not about the damage, when we talk about children being mentioned ridiculous names, it's not about the name in itself-- be aware that yesterday it was refused to mention Alex's girl. Is that supposed to hurt her? No, there is nothing like calling her Hitler or Stalín. A senator talked about it. It is a child - protection case, and members of committees may bring in small changes in child protection laws to help help identify these issues as well. You can do it because of me. I don't think it's necessary, but if it's the peace of others'conscience, well. But anyway, it's not about children. Another point, though unusual, is that names are not absurd. Names will be normal when used. But when I was five years Bergljót, I thought, " Why is it ugly? ' And then you just grow out of something like that. Actually, in my case it happened in seconds. Sturla sounds like a woman's name. Reminds all of us of a slash, let's just say it out loud. But you grow out of it in seconds, you don't even have to talk about it. Men are Sturla - Sturla, about Sturla, from Sturla, to Sturla. It's all good. It's just fun. Very nice name, I like it too. Names get used to. They're not bad for being unusual. They are not bad for being bent like that of a different sex. Most important, I want to say one thing as a bullying child - I was being harassed in middle school and took my time to cope with it all. People are concerned that children will be named by someone who might stumble them, who is being held by harassment. They're showing that they're right, that you're supposed to tease people for having wrong names. I don't think that's the kind of thing. We should never give up on names that kids think are stupid. It's not the kids that have the funny names that are the problem, it's the wargs, the bullying eggs. We're never supposed to give up on them, so I've learned so much in my life. I mention it here so that people will not be able to hold it with them. There are technical reasons why we might want to have laws like this bill. Some such practitioners have to be able to read the name; it is not good if it is written, for example, in Arabic written language, as it is now delightful and enjoyable. I can totally translate my name to Arabic, it sounds like this. [[A senator uses his name in Arabic.]] Perhaps I wouldn't write it that way because I think it's better that people know how to pronounce my name, and especially in our new language. Computer systems and, perhaps, legal procedures may need to be guarded. One simple factor is the length of the name, it is not good if a name can be five thousand characters, it is difficult to match it in computer systems and administration. That's what this Regulation is for, I presume. In order to put the minimal system on it so that it is above the head that it is useful to record it. That, of course, is the main thing by documenting this into a national file, that this is of benefit. If it's not useful, we should just let it go. Then there are sometimes questions: What if someone's name is just a zero or something? Yeah, so what? Well, then there's just one of the zeros. So? Does everybody cry, or what? Is that a problem, can't you just say so? I don't know what the problem with that is. If anyone thinks it's silly, the person can feel it. Worse things have happened now, once again it's not a people's health or financial stability, it's a tradition. In many places a personal name and name are expected, including in this bill. I don't think so much of this myself. I've actually, because I've programmed a lot of computer systems through the years, found that there's no particular reason to distinguish there. When I program computer systems, I just have one column, just a name, and I'm not having any division over who's named Prins, or whether the artist was before Prins or Gunnarsson, or anything else. Or just Alex. It's just none of my business, it's just a column in a computer system, it doesn't matter. It may be a technical position that has nothing to do with this case, but it would mean nothing to me that it was just a name and nothing more than that. In other cultures, it is customary for the last name to be first listed, family names being placed first in some languages, such as Tamil and others. My main concern is that we have these laws. I think it's so offensive to the idea that a person is free, not to get his name. I would have thought it was the first freedom we had; freedom so much, of course, that we didn't have to mention it. I think it's a disgrace, I think the General is ashamed to have made these laws, because he has dared to suggest them in the first place. I feel that the Icelandic people can only be ashamed to put up with this nonsense. I think it's such an insult to the thing, to the idea of the individual. Like I say, I'm infected with blood when I'm talking about it long enough. So maybe I'll do it enough so that this red light doesn't blow everything up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u59	A respectable president. I am very happy about this bill. I often think of words like these to be discussed. I'm not gonna sing to you, but this is the song that says you can't do that. In the original text, we will review a number of points, such as pissing behind a door, using a screwdriver for a licker, or even looking at a small call. It's exactly this song that you think of when you look at out - of - date laws that forbid people to control their children's name or name. In the 5th. The law says, with permission from the President: A personal name should be available to take a Icelandic possession extension or to have earned a tradition in Icelandic languages. The name cannot be against the Icelandic language system. It should be written in accordance with the general practice of writing unless it is prescribed for other forms of writing. Sometimes when we discuss this case and the Human Name Committee, we have an idea of changing the law, as if it were something in the law that states that the names of the human committee are appropriate. It's not. The Human Name Committee does not determine what names children might be teased about. It's not a human commission. Names are all kinds of things. They make life varied and enjoyable. But with the laws we live in today, there are people who choose to name their child Skallagrímur mask Thor and who get day tickets until their parents decide to change the name of their child. You see, Thor is just a first name. That's not a middle name. Skallagrímur mask's not a personal name, either. Some people think that a human nickname is only the strangest names that are left behind. But what's weird? For us today, these two names, e.g. Not weird. We're used to reading stories about the Skallagrímur and Thor is a very normal name. It comes as a surprise to people when you discuss the role of a human committee that it should be a day - to - day decision if they mention their child Skallagrímur Thor. It comes even more surprised to learn that there are certain names that people think the Human Committee stops because they are considered strange today, such as the middle name Kaktus or Mímósa. But it is not. I could be Áslaug Mímósa, and I think it sounds pretty good. But all of this will be under the rules of state, and these names are considered fitting, but I shall not be named my son, Skallagrímur Thor. I'm glad the bill has come and agrees with those who have discussed the importance of the Icelandic language. I think everyone here agrees on this important project. We have set out on a very important grammatical project, to get Icelandic into the modern world of technology and invest in the structure of the Icelandic language, to invest in the technology we need. We all agree that this bill is not only about that, because the human committee is censoring not names that seem appropriate today. Rather, it examines dents and language systems that are out - of - date ideas and premeditated thinking. I've been waiting a long time for these laws to be removed and can look forward to observing the case during conquistador, whether there are any comments or whether there are any specific discussions and adjustments. I think it's important that we discuss this. Of course it has been submitted before, and ministers have also prepared a bill like this. I'm glad we're discussing taking steps to grant freedom to parents and people in this country to name their children without restrictions from the State. I started by quoting a song. I love the song Freedom is much more wonderful than the song about what's forbidden. I'm happy for the bill, and I'm looking forward to keeping an eye on the subject. It is often said in such cases that this is not the most important issue, which is what the senators are thinking on Wednesday evening, is this the most important? Of course, our priorities are in order. The Ministers do so in particular, but so do we members of the Parliament. But to eliminate out - of - date laws that restrict people's freedom to name what they want to be my priorities. We can use our time better and adapt such laws as these and many other laws that, in my opinion, are out - of - date, are a child of our time, and do not follow the modern society in which we want to live. Then there are some things that are still forbidden, even though I'm not going to have a special discussion about them. But there is a reason why these laws are still true, that I believe, it has not been a priority to eliminate or reduce the number of them, but only to increase them and do something new. In those words I will finish my speech. I'm glad the bill is on schedule, no matter where good things come from. I've been pushing and supporting a minister of mine who's been working on a similar case in the Ministry, and particularly the former Minister of State and my associate, Ólöfu Nordal, who was seriously involved in his Ministry, and who wanted to put down the committee. I welcome the matter, and I look forward to it, although we will, of course, use the many subjects on the convention program, which is not to prevent discussions about removing out - of - date laws for an Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u60	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Much for the talk that I enjoyed and that I could agree with everything she said. It's all complicated. When I was listening to talks here, I randomized myself to the Commission of Human Name. There's a lot of important stuff there. I'm saying that I mention this at random and that it is not in itself to evaluate the names discussed here, for example. One interesting thing, the name Iceland has been rejected. What is more Icelandic than Icelandic suns and Iceland? The argument is that this is against tradition and is the name of a known person in a novel, not as a personal name, but as a nickname. The Human Committee is now comparing this with words such as Reykjavíkur, Iceland, King of Norway, and others like that, and it rejects the name of Iceland. And there's another name here, it's a couple of decisions from the same day, and there's Tonni. That's okay, because it's an Icelandic tradition. We have names like Úlfur, Örn, Þröstur, Björn, we all think they're very normal. I assume, in accordance with current rules, there's nothing wrong with baptizing the children of Hana, Mink, Lax, Urriði. Is that what they are? [[The president calls.]] These are now more meditation than questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u61	A respectable president. I also cut down on such a decision some time ago when I was considering the matter. It was a random search, but it helped me to examine the decision of a human committee to explain it to people who feel that a committee of human names is a very important one. Because the decision is quite surprising. Not because we feel that some other name should be banned, but because it does not work, I think, according to the law that people consider to be true of the committee. I think that's the biggest misunderstanding in this discussion, that the Human Name Committee saves kids from war for their names. It's not reality. That is why it is interesting to go on this good page to look at these Icelandic names and what the argument is for allowing them or not to allow them. But we what? So a senator wholeheartedly agrees that we must want to respect people's freedoms to allow them to name what they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u62	Mr. President. Of course, there are many views. One thing I've been thinking about. Now we are so lucky that in Iceland the number of foreigners and people from a foreign land has increased dramatically. We're welcome and, fortunately, we've stopped ordering to change their names when they move here. One thing that can happen is that there will be such a master nation. It's me and the Icelanders who are under the Human Name Act and who respect all these traditions. Then it's clear who's an Icelander and who's not. This is one of the things I think it's worth to wonder if we should say: "We're the Americas of this country, we have our tradition, we're keeping it, we're Icelanders, you're just foreigners in Iceland. Do we want to mark people like that? Then there's so much fun in life. My name is Jón Valdimarsson. I don't really use my last name, not because I have anything to do with my father, it's just that I'm just crazy to call myself Jón Steindór. That's a lot more than a full name for me. When I was younger and was baptized in the head of my grandfather's grandfather, Jón Steindór, he singled out that I would be called Jónki or Jónsi's because I wasn't his name. I had to be called "Nonni." Then they call me Nonni Vald, among my old friends. I looked it up: Is Power Allowed? Yeah, it's allowed as a middle name, but it's just a little while ago. So I could maybe change my name and become Nonni Vald again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u63	A respectable president. I think exactly about the traditions and foreigners that come to Iceland that sometimes between tradition and tradition, sometimes not. Families come from different cultures, and there is nothing to worry about. A lot of people, especially if tradition is good and satisfied with it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson came on, will hold onto the tradition, they will not change if such a law about a committee particularly over some particular names falls. So I'm not so worried about it and I think it's good. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has in common that we are baptized in the head of people, that I am baptized in the head of my grandmother. His grandfather's senator. In my case, however, it was so that I would have the name Arna so I wouldn't be entirely anonymous.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u64	A respectable president. It's been an interesting discussion here today. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn for calling Alex, who has been a little in the discussion. Another version of the name Alexander, Alex, is found in different languages. Spain speaks of Alejandro, Russia, Alexei. I have a point with this, the original meaning of a alex protector and a sander means a man, the protector of the human beings was, in effect, the original meaning. The point is, women too can be human; women can also be protective. If I'm going to be completely honest, I'm a slow change in my life when it comes to these matters, and it's clear that it sounds very strange to me that this is a Human Name Committee. In English it would be very Soviet to have some form of human name committee in society. I believe we've made some changes. There's another thing I'm making serious comments about, Mr. President. In Iceland, there is a committee that determines what is right. Why is it that we have not gone further in our discussion than we are deciding on a government committee what is the right kind of sex? It is not the State's job to get involved, and it sounds rather Soviet again. The idea of banning last names has a story. It's not taken out of the air. In the past, England was under attack. When people engage in seminary, there is much emphasis on the fact that this has become a very different one. In particular, Danish traders wore fancy last names, and this created a division in society. The ban on new last names began. However, in the North countries, the reason for their failure to use this system was revealed. They used the same system that we did, when man -son and - daughter, and so on the streets, stopped because it was actually impossible to identify humans, so many people lived in the country that if men had the same name, it was impossible to know exactly who it was. I'm gonna take as an example the name Ólafur Ólafsson. It's a good name, and I love it. I have a brother named Ólafur Ólafsson. His father's name is Ólafur the son of Ólafsson, whose grandfather is Ólafur the son of Ólafsson. Me and the Icelanders have actually become a very big people, so banning their last names may not have the purpose they originally had. I agree that these changes can be made, but number one, two, and three is that there is no committee that determines what is right. It's not the government's decision to make.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u65	A respectable president. Thank you so much. A senator for a good speech. I'm not really answering, I have to admit it, but I just have to take this opportunity at the moment. A senator began to discuss that we had become so many here and discussed the above names and other matters that I just couldn't resist, and I'm going to do what I've forgotten in my background here, and I'm going to read one of the useful articles from the current law, using a probe of IX. section under various instructions. This is 24. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ A person can prove that another person uses his name, or name, so much like an error can cause in judicial cases that the other is obliged to give up the divine name. Is there something more effective to prove that this is where we need to change?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u66	I have to thank you. A senator for pointing this out to me. It is natural that people here can be put in prison for wearing names that look too much like the names of others. I certainly don't live with the fact that there are too many people here named Alex in Iceland. Hv. A senator came in earlier that we could have been creating a country of some kind. I have to admit, I don't know if it's the dark beard or the name Alex, that when people meet me for the first time, I'm very often spoken to by English. There might be a point in this by then. A senator's warning that we are out of the way of foreigners has been pointed out that foreign - name foreigners often find it much more difficult to get an answer to professional applications. So I can totally agree with many people who have spoken here. We need to review these rules. At the same time, though, it is not the role of the Children's Institute for Protection, which usually deals with others. This law needs a review. Thank you. A senator for measuring for the bill and bringing it up. At the same time, it was established as if there was nothing else to do. It's just not right. I have sat here now for the week and witnessed that there are extraordinary, hardworking people who are conducting themselves well. Those who have been able to organize so that they can participate in these discussions will do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-07-23.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a change of the U.S. election law to the Generals, i.e. how the vote is handled. Now, for people to move abroad, they need to check in on a budget every eight years in order to maintain their right to vote. Initially, I wanted to change it in a way that would simply be removed. If you're an Icelandic citizen, you have a voter, but under the constitution, you also have to have a legal home in Iceland. Yet, the law has the authority to turn aside. This is done by filing to an elected file. I made these adjustments to my proposal to adapt to the original proposal that all I had to do was file a ballot once. If you move abroad, you can check into a vote, and then you'll keep your vote until you die. I am told that if there is no information available in the National Account for a 19 hundred and a little something, people have to prove that they have ever lived in Iceland. In fact, it's about proving that people had a legal home in the country. It applies only to those who have lived abroad for 50 years, so very soon it will be time for you not to be forced into a vote if the exception we know is that you've ever had a legal home in Iceland. This is an intermediate step to protect people who have a legal right to vote in Iceland but choose in foreign lands, from the extra money, and from the extra writing that goes into a national file, to keep their terms on the sufficiency each time. It's hard enough to take advantage of your voting rights when you're abroad. It is usually very long to go to the consulate or the embassy to vote. For example, students in Norway who do not live near the consulate or the embassy simply could not afford it or have time to take a train by long distance to vote. It is even more discouraging to choose if you have to remember to check into an election file, especially in view of the last two elections that were very shameful. People did not even have time to take advantage of the opportunity to check in on a ballot if they wanted to. However, the law was changed in a way that was removed from the regulations that must normally be filed into a ballot in December, but there was room for these quick elections for a week, something like that, after the law was given. That's when people had a weekly window to check in on an elected file, if that was the case. The change is very simple. She saves paperwork and trouble for me. As the report says, people keep their vote if they're Icelandic citizens and they've ever had a legal home in Iceland, so it's a very small change from the present arrangement. It's just a little bit of a little bit of a chat that we're in today's world. I have no doubt that this will be well received, that it will be reduced. At any rate, a member of the board should accept it with joy.
