ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u1	Borist has a letter from the fourth. Smoke. s., Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Asvarsdóttir, says that she can't attend next week. So today, Wednesday, December 12th, will be the seat of the Second Council... a vice president of Porrata in the district of Snæbjörn Brynjarsson... who has announced a prehistoric event. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u2	The president considers it possible for a conference to last longer than the Council to be if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u3	Borist has two letters from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to give written answers to inquiries on the deck. 254, about Icelanders in Britain and Britain's evictions from the European Union, from Valdimarsson Steindór, and who were the people. 443, about the number of law-employed employees from Karl Gauti Hjaltason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u4	Mr. President. The last Monday was presented with a white book on the future view of the Icelandic financial system. Although I have not finished reading the entire report, it is of great importance, and I plan to do so. The Economic and Business Committee will cover all those suggestions very closely. It's a lot of stuff. There's one thing that interests me, and it's in a follow-up by Dr. Ásgeir Jónsson, economist and branch president of the University of Iceland. There he points out the scope of the world's financial market and how much money is bound in the financial system. In two banks 330 billion, in three loans 120 billion, and in addition, the State is indirectly or directly responsible for 857 billion. A total of these are government risks, taxpayers, all of us, approx. 2,200 billion. It is our job to consider whether the risks we have decided to place on the State are the taxpayers by tying financial resources in the way that we should serve the interests of public interest, whether it is the right thing to do. The committee of the White Book explains that we need to consider the removal of property. As Ásgeir Jónsson points out, and I have also done, as well as many others, it is social structures that we should consider to, remove money from the financial system, and place them in social infrastructure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u5	President. In view of the fact that a team of workers produced a report on the international flight, flight systems, and Scottish routes last week, where we traveled far and wide, there has been a debate during the conference on the flight carbon tracks. I've heard it, and I've been told that the carbon track is far more because of using the flight than it is to drive through the country. Then I would like to point out to the United States that there is no more carbon from the international flight than is the movement of people on the roads of the country. I think it's important that the discussion doesn't go astray, so that the information is correct in everyone's case. Councilmen on the situation of these matters. In fact, these calculations are in that way - when we travel through the highways of the country, there are an average of 2.3 passengers on board a car. Let us move it to the international level of carbon and certain routes where we can jump with 70% efficiency. Then it comes out very similar. For example, when you travel on an airplane, the average is 1,25,1.8 passengers, which means again that if you traveled in a car, there would be a significantly more carbon track to which you would travel. It's important to me that we have that understanding. I intend to introduce this better in the near future, and the staff will always be able to present the flight report and the information provided in a transport plan for flight. We are invited to appear before all members of the council associated with it. Regarding the spare airports, which are then met in the report, there is also a big issue about the nation's carbon tracks, so that there is less fuel in the traffic across the sea. If we have good backup airports, the machines will carry less fuel, which means the carbon track will be less, you'll be here at the council for information.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u6	V.E.G. President. Here I am today to call attention to a problem that has been present for many years. It is the problem of high school students from the region that moves to the capital area to study. The fact is, 17 of the higher schools of the country are in the capital area. There are a number of young people who come from the country to study but who land on a wall. You see, there is no room for that. The parks in the capital area are intended for university students. Thus, many students try to move in with friends or relatives, and some try in the tenet, but that jungle is not suitable for 15 to 18 years old. Thus, some who take the lead in breaking up or changing courses of study are likely to get into trade. It's not supposed to be like this. Young people have the right to pursue what they want. Housing should not be a problem for this age group, and I'm pretty sure that parents do not want to send their children in such an uncertain situation. V.E.G. President. I believe that there will be a need to set up a dormitory in the capital area for high school students from the region. It would open up many students, and it would also be a way to increase the balance of students in Iceland, since everyone has the right to the same study regardless of where they come from. So the one here proposes a proposal today for a resolution of boarding in the capital area. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u7	A respectable president. By permission of the President: Dies money, Die cousins, You die, too. But a reputation dies aloft, How good can you do that? So is Honagara, and I'm sure it's the most famous part of the Hagava. More about that later. In the scientific site, there is an article entitled ▪ Does Political Propaganda Work, and why? In this article, the ELM model explains how political propaganda can be taken in different ways by permission of presidents: ▪ By carefully considering the evidence presented, what conclusions are made, and how they are made. It is called a nuclear power.• Or: ▪ By focusing on the superficial qualities of the message, which do not require much thought. It's called a perimeter route.How's it going? An example of a peripheral route is the effect when you look at the credibility of propaganda. In this article, Arnold Schwarzenegger is mentioned as an example of how his fame and growth have undoubtedly affected many voters. In logic, such an effect is called a reference to doctrine or in English to perhosity, and it is classified as a pa·rou·siʹa. That fallacy can be seen in a few brief phrases: Do not judge the book from the cover. Don't judge the political party by the name. Don't judge the senator by his dress. Or general: Do not judge the content of your appearance. Lack of trust in the Council is a problem, so big it is not enough to just dress up in beautiful clothes and pretend everything is fine. We do not go up - to - date in promoting trust in the Council and the United States. We must take the approach to which the Shark case points, the core route. We must build up our reputation and the Senate in a good way, not by showy display. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u8	A respectable president. If you read the magazines or the news media today, you can read that four senators are headed for disability. Four members of the council are planning to pursue a penalties and seek compensation or some form of punishment. I'm here to declare my scandal. I'm shocked to see that people who are making a lot of money with this individual come together against this one person and demand a penalty. No, it is shown that these men have neither humanity nor courage to apologize for their conduct or to just resign and humbly ask for forgiveness. I think it's amazing to think that this person's direction has come to mind. Rather, they should thank her for teaching them a vital lesson in life.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u9	A respectable president. There's a certain politicians, I think, in every community where politicians embrace language that ordinary people may not recognize from everyday life. When do you rejoice, such as that something has happened or regret that something has happened at the dinner table? A man speaks as a politician. Of course, this is so because we want to speak clearly, and we learn a certain language and a certain behavior that is thought to enable us to communicate with an overwhelming variety and a large group of people in a language that is understood by all. One of the things that come with a certain kind of politicians, and I believe that if it's the case in Iceland, there's some rules of play. What's okay? What causes a general shock? What's cool? What's smart? Unfortunately, one of the things that seems to be a bit cool, a little clever in Icelandic politicians and, although more widely searched, is being able to turn out of things in a very elegant way. You often run into it here in a pita, but it's usually out of such a low order that you're not quite sure if the person really misunderstood what was said or if he's deliberately going out of the way or didn't have something to think about because it didn't seem right for him to think, something would be more appropriate. But this is dishonest, and we should not view it as some political strategy. We should view this as dishonesty, just as we view falsehood as dishonesty. To turn away from what people say is dishonest. Making up opinions that they do not have is dishonest. Of course, all of us occasionally do something unexpected, and we need to be tolerant of it. We must also adjust our own morality to do as little as possible of it, and when we personally do something like that, we should be ashamed of ourselves and try to do better next time. That's what I feel is missing in Icelandic politicians, that Generals respect and even if more people are looking for them. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u10	A respectable president. Transport and other infrastructures are fundamental factors in building quality of life and strengthening the competitiveness of the country's settlements, building a foundation for opportunities for the land's habitats. This is our responsibility. It is our responsibility for this council that these emphasis are being carried out. We can see a wide range of changes in conventional employment areas with reduced hands, the number of hands making a great deal of value. We need to create new opportunities. The insides are the basis for this to be possible. This is true of communication, transportation, and other infrastructures. There is now a suggestion for changes in transport plans. It's about this, it's about taking major steps to support the country, further improvements in national services, the growth of transport for the capital area and the rest of the country, increasing traffic security, fewer accidents, less damage to society. Is it not, then, that human tragedy is culminating in prices? I welcome the agreement that the prime minister made on this important matter last night at the council. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to take advantage of the opportunity ahead of us to take this matter into account again in the field of environmental and transport committees in mid - January and to study the matter carefully, approach it in an objective and responsible manner, considering where we are heading, how important this is for all of us. We concluded this case by the end of January, and I gave a talk. Last night, the General said we should give this to the nation for Christmas. Let's just bring her this for New Year's. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u11	A respectable president. What will we give to our people for Christmas? All the opportunities have been made to improve the interests of the least of our brothers and sisters. The budget for 2019 has been paid, the money will be taken out in the near future. It is not possible to improve their terms until 2020; they have been locked down. This morning, I was contacted by a woman working for a charity organization. There were 120 people who came to her yesterday and accepted a gift card, a request card. She said that it was more painful than tears, in effect, to the extent that in 2018 the misery had grown unbelievably much. We received $181,000 in a Christmas bonus, with members of Congress. I know what I'm gonna give for Christmas. I'll show you, chief. President. I took out my Christmas bonus, and I challenge everyone to do the same thing because we can afford to buy a gift card for poor people and pass it for charity and set it before us with a good example. Merry Christmas. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u12	A respectable president. No case has been higher in recent years than the recent discussions that took place during the days of the Kubs Bar. The conversation that took place there ran through the media and influenced the political discussions and activities of the Allied people and still do. In fact, not nearly all of the effects have come from my opinion, since there are four members of the Central Party who participated in these terrible discussions at Klausri Bar that evening, making a decision to make improvements in the recording. No wonder, but also shame, of that decision! We are here talking about an incident in which the president of the Generals needed to apologize to both members of the council and to a nation. To me, a complete lack of understanding of the seriousness of the situation and the situation in which these four people have come to be done in the way they now do. In my opinion, this is still another attempt to kill the case, to focus attention on something else, and at the same time try to avoid accepting responsibility for words and actions. That's hardly a fine thing for these senators. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u13	Mr. President. We live in a country where natural forces can take over at any time, and the sewage system can produce a sudden flash of weather, as if a hand is waving. The premise that help can be received when accidents occur in rural areas or in the sea is safe communication. In answer to the highest. A transport minister on the spread of cell phones in the country reports that 4% of the population are still without cell phone service. We are close to the fact that every home in the country has a mobile contact, but there is still work to do. With ever - increasing tourism, it is necessary to correct this situation. Many visitors come from countries where nature is not as ruthless as the Icelandic one. I received a letter from a person who comes from a travel agency where four hours are passed to make cell phone contact. The place goes to hundreds of tourists every year, so just a matter of time before an accident occurs. You must then be able to obtain emergency services. Much has been done about this, especially with modern - day cellular telephone service, improved the way the tickets around the country. This is good and gives fishermen security in their work. The 10th of the highland road is more than 200 m without a cell phone, and there's something I think must stress on improving. Road accident is very expensive to us, to society, and it is vital that relief forces be called quickly. Therefore, I hope that in working on a communication strategy for 2019-22033, high priority will be to speed up the structure of this core service, since a cell service today is not defined as law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u14	A respectable president. It is shocking to observe the situation in Britain at this time, where the government is struggling to submit a vote for the European Union's discharge from the EU. May May was replaced by a whip tunnel through continental Europe, similar to Skarphéðinn's helper in Njáli when he went between princes to get no chance there. She's waiting to deal with a mistrust plan at the council this evening. The British don't know what to do. They seem to have gradually come to realize that they had extremes in control of Baltrexit. They have been tempted to listen to the propaganda of those who harbor fear and hostility toward others, speak in agreement and cooperation, but they accept conflict and presumptuous politics in which one party will always triumph but the other party will be defeated. In fact, that period of Great Britain ended permanently after the last world war, but some seem not to have faced it yet. The forces that have been controlled are lightly covered by the public's standard of living or the status of the workplace or even the expected status of the nation's population. The British can be said to benefit from their negotiations with the European Union by threatening massive penalties, which focus on themselves. They threaten the European Union to use themselves a major form of punishment. They are in a cruel, self - centered attack. They are a nation under siege of their own delusions. The trouble facing the British should serve as a warning to us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to be a boy. My deputies have made both today and yesterday just saying that a new white book on the financial system has become a source of information. As the House of Congress knows, she came out in the daytime and is about many things. It is good to have one place where the many ideas that are drawn out and that will help us to cooperate with the work that lies ahead of us in the financial system. So, there's a lot of nice stuff there, but I think things in this report raise a lot of questions and give special encouragement. It takes e.g. to discuss very carefully questions about possession of financial institutions. When I read the White Book, I felt that there was a discussion of a former government policy when it comes to the financial system and refer to what is presented in the Treaty on that matter. In this discussion, how vital it is that all of us keep in mind that the greater part of the nation has shown itself to be primarily transparent when it comes to the financial system and also when it comes to holding the financial system! He also has a positive view of the property of the State. This does not necessarily mean that the State should own each other's financial institutions, but let us keep this in mind when we make decisions and when we discuss how the government's ownership of financial institutions should be in place. Then there's one thing I'd like to get better and more detailed coverage of in the White Book, and that's the idea of a community bank. There is something that I think we should bear in mind that is an exciting and positive phenomenon that has gained an excellent sound among the people, and it's worth a lot of talking about whether it's possible to get up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u16	Mr. President. In the news, there is a lightning storm that struck yesterday, as well as a number of difficult and emotional cases, and may be included in the words that have fallen by the wind. Councilmen. In such a media storm, important issues that will have a profound impact on the future society do not get the attention they deserve but get lost in the popular conversation. An example of such a story appeared yesterday in the column about 200 miles [200 km] in ml.is. It was a small concern, but it discussed a report made by a sea - out minister in October. I highlight the verb "toms." So the report said that a new report on the national impact of whale fishing was not yet available, but it will be expected for a year - long tournament two to three months later than expected, which is actually a little longer than has been asked for a fish bill. A minister who was announced according to a Congress file in November. Mr. President. The report is designed to evaluate the national importance of whale hunting, but I allow myself to fear that the report does not cover the losses of Icelandic society due to whale fishing, the losses that are difficult to measure, as this includes. in commercial instruments that never occurred but would, for example, have been present. could create an increased income for their products on foreign markets, opportunities that could not be realized because of the interests of one company that refuses to face the fact that whaling would enjoy a similar understanding of the world and fishing at the bears in our country. But don't worry, dear Senate, a report is being made, which may not really matter, since it is the highest. The marine and agricultural ministers have already proclaimed a stable policy in whales in response to their inquiry. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Mr. President. Isn't it time we slept on whales?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u17	Mr. President. Security is not guaranteed in the overcrowded emergency departments. That was a headline in one of the newspapers a few days ago. Sadly, this headline is not new, but it seems that the use of hospital emergency rooms in the emergency departments reached new heights last week when it went to 117%. To realize that it is not so easy - and ironic - it is not necessary to ensure patient safety under such circumstances. A board of directors of the Land Hospital was invited by their people, surgeons, and health - care ministers to a meeting this morning on the matter. There are many common causes, but it is also clear that the hospital, along with the health authorities, has the case under observation. There are many in the pipes that will hopefully address the problem, but unfortunately, there are many of the measures involved in long - term solutions. I'd like to look at my design problem only. It has increased in recent years, especially among nurses. The problem is the least. We're training nurses, they're still attending the study, but they're far less effective in these activities than they were before. Then, too, it is clear that there are many reasons, such as pressures, which do not reduce under such circumstances, conditions, and rewards. And then we take it down because what I want to talk about is the pay problem. There is good reason for this to review the fact that nurses, like many other professions, so - called women's professions, are less than the salary of other classes based on comparable education and comparable government responsibilities. Last spring, a group of reveries, along with a good group of members, suggested a proposal that the minister of finance be assigned to make conversation with the labour market parties and the European Union for special efforts, on national status for better women's groups, and on the promotion of a special agreement to improve the salary of these classes. [[The president calls.]] During the last spring of the greater part, the proposal was diluted, allowing it to reach nothing. However, today's situation suggests that there is good reason for governments to reconsider their thinking. [[The president calls.]] This situation, especially when repeated, is serious. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u18	V.E.G. President. December 6th. dropped the Supreme Court's judgment on reassignment division in mackerel. A marine minister has said that the judgment calls for reviewing the rules of the macrotic government and financial minister has said that it is possible to resolve the situation with a discussion. According to the court, appealrs claim to have lost their profits to 2.7 billion. According to the Supreme Court, the Ministry has been responsible for publishing the labor department at macroil in 2011, based on the fishing of three next years, 2008, 2009, and 2010. An appealer says the Habitat Department should have been 15.7%. In the years before 2008's memorable year, mackerel began to be seen on the fishing grounds east and north. There was a large increase in the number of landed macroils in the years that followed. It was whales for us as a nation to get this species of fish into the jurisdiction of these economic challenges. It is worth the fact that during the first few years, herring was a mackerel and was mainly used in the process of melting. The value of farm animals is generally less than the amount produced for human consumption. Were they not? The evidence is that there is a food - producing process. There was little knowledge about macrollion in the country at that time, and the evidence of allowing more people to see that the fishing was great, despite the productions that started fishing in 2011 without experience. However, they had many resources to make man - made macroils. We recall the controversy over the quantity of fishing rights from this stock with our neighbors. Part of what Norwegians and other nations put on was the way the harvest was then, i.e. The largest amount of land was reduced to more than 70%.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u19	Mr. President. Two main features of this bill, on the one hand, the continuation of temporary rules, the extension of terms given under any other circumstance than the present, and the automatic increase of pay. It lacks a vision of the future, and no ambition is put on long-term plans for big welfare. It belongs, for example. we will deal with micro-organism and development and nursing procedures. We in the United States will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u20	Mr. President. This bill contains normal increases due to rising prices. It belongs, for example. for alcohol and tobacco elevations. However, here is the focus of the government, which the Central Party cannot support. There is an increase in carbon pay. The carbon tax from the government is aimless. He is not fair enough to level the population. The government has outlasted this fee. There's a down payment on financial companies, banks and insurance companies. It is a special interest for the government to do well with the banks and to look forward to the Independence Party over the permissiveness of the left green in that matter. In the same bill, the price of older citizens is being raised in local homes. And it is still avoided by reducing contributions to the responsoring fund. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u21	Mr. President. We are in the final payment on various measures because of the need for financial therapy. We're taking steps to make the income tax system more reasonable. We're taking a step in raising carbon costs, we're raising child damages, and there's more to count. I think the government is on its way with this bill, so I'm happy to vote with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u22	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to legalise various measures according to the budget for 2019 C.E. It's on the roof. 638. The Commission discussed the situation and was contacted by a representative of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, State overemployers, Employment Association, the National Association of Older Citizens, the Economic Association, the Council of Professional Science, the Council of Customs and the National Social Affairs of Iceland. The bill suggests that the change in the budget of the upper tax step will take into account the change in index price from baseline to the end of each year, but not the pay number as set by the current legislation. This means that there is a consistent correlation between the update of personality beat and the tax step but a personal discount will change according to the index price of consumers according to current legislation. The majority of them believe that it is preferable to use a consistent methodology to change the share of money in the income tax system. However, the failure of the bill's proposal is obvious: Since the remuneration rate increases, there is no exception more taxpayers than before in the top stage of the income tax, because the currency limits increase according to the price number than the pay number. Thus, more and more people with intermediate income pay income taxes in the upper stages as time goes and finally, unchanged, nearly all the payers move to the top of the income tax. The change in the amount of money, whether a person's discount or the top step of the income tax, on the index price of consumers rather than on the general salary development, has created a built - in process of tax growth. The decrease in personal discount to the price, but not the increase in pay, will inevitably result in heavier tax rates for all. This built-in tax rise process is already in the current law. The change in the bill to calculate the sum of the upper tax step means that there is another built - in process that leads to a heavier tax burden, especially in intermediate groups. An increase in personal discount by 1% over a legal increase according to the index value of consumer prices is positive and counteracts the built-in defects of the income tax system. The Government's policy declaration highlights reducing income taxes to lower levels in order to ensure the success of collective agreements. A financial program adopted at the General Assembly in June 2000 reported that a global review of the tax system is being done in conjunction with a review of the improvements systems. The review is guided by the increasing in particular the provision of low income groups and those with lower intermediate incomes. This work is being done in agreement with the labour market partners. The Commission has been informed that in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs it is considered to create a new basis for changing the personality rate and the level of money as well as a review of the non-final income tax system. In that light, much of it seems right that the change in 1st will be adjusted. the bill will be temporary and fail on December 31, 2019. The more important part emphasizes the importance of reimbursement of the income tax system to harmonise the methodology on the increase in the rate of the figures and taxes, while also preventing an endogenous spontaneous increase in tax burden. The bill adds additional increases in the paediatric income benefits beyond the basis of financial programmes. The annual income limits for single parents are expected to increase from 2.9 million to 3.6 million or about 29% between years. The levels of living with a couple and partners grow up twice as high. At the same time, each child's less than 18 years of age will be raised by 5%. The bill promotes a failure of children's income benefits when certain revenues are reached in order to ensure that the improvement in child - rearing is not the key factor but the most useful to families with less income. According to current legislation, the proportion of income reduction in children is 4% with one child, 6% with two children and 8% with three or more children when income exceeds the limit of income reduction. However, the bill suggests an increase in revenue rates when certain revenues are reached, i.e. 5.5 million in a single parent and 11 million in a married and a domestic population, becoming 5.5% with one child, 7.5% with two and 9.5% with three. There are no changes in the decline in income-related paediatric improvement rates with children less than seven years of age, currently 4%, but it is suggested to increase the amount of donations itself in the same way as other paediatric improvement by 5%. The total government budget for these changes is estimated to be 12.1 billion in the coming year, an increase of 1.8 billion between years. This is a 17.5% increase or about 14% absolute value. The cut-off limit of the child's improvement according to income tax laws taking into account the amount shown there, i.e. without the step-change suggested in the bill. In his review to the Committee, the head of the Treaty pointed out that, in line with the change in the decline rate from income, it would be necessary to make clear the law on which coins should be based on a calculation of 4% additional child improvement due to children under seven years of age. In comment, we make 2.g. the bill shows that the decrease in income-related child improvement rate with children less than seven years of age will remain 4% regardless of income intake. So the committee suggests that the directive will add the text of the decline in income taxation product to more than 7.2 million for married couples and 3.6 million for single parents. The calculation rules of growth reforms at the end of 2010 were required to be met for two years, however, the length of each year without any change has been extended. There is still an overall review of government housing support in connection with income taxes, as mentioned earlier, and support for children's families. In view of this, the bill suggests that the rules will be extended by one more year, while at the same time they will increase by 10% and amount to the maximum interest rate by 5%. A total of 3.4 billion in the coming year is estimated to be a total of $3.4 billion, compared with nearly 3 billion this year. The increase is about 13.3%. Since 2014, individuals have been granted temporary permission to take out the tax-employment amount of money to buy an apartment home or to pay on the mortgage on the appropriate premises. The next year, the general authority of the apartment owners, to meet certain conditions, falls to make use of the legal rights of property in this way. People who are buying their first apartment will continue to enjoy using their own tax money. That support is permanent for ten years for each individual to meet certain criteria. This year it is estimated that total support in the form of tax inefficiency is about 5.5 billion, of which 3.5 billion are in the form of a lower income for the state's funds and 2 billion for the rural population in the form of a lower response. In the government's policy declaration, a reduction in insurance costs is said to be a priority. In line with this, it is suggested in the bill that the overall insurance bill will be reduced by 0.25% on January 1. and about the same number, 0.25, starting January 1, 2020. A reduction in insurance costs is expected to result in a reduction of 4 billion next year's income and a total of about 8 billion in 2020. The majority support the reduction of insurance costs that strengthen the competitiveness of employment and provide companies with greater scope for future labour agreements. It should then be rejoiced to increase the scope by immediately binding on a decline in the budget in 2020. In addition to the changes mentioned above and regarding the time-separation of Figure 1. However, as indicated by the national taxpayer's indication, more parts contribute to several technical changes and do not need explanation. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the proposed changes made to a special Senate document, No. 639. Under this view, the printed page appears here. paritaprevir Bruthi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Brumur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Abiltes K. Gylfadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u23	Mr. President. I hereby recommend Committee 1. My share, representing the United States on the Economic and Business Committee. The first memory item has previously pointed to, including in other committee views, that in the years leading to the economic breakdown, there was a dramatic increase in the number of countries and much more than in other Western lands, but then a decrease in the collapse. This is what we will consider in the book Ungaind, Iceland, published in the fall of 2017 after Stefán Ólafsson and Kristjánsson Sölvi. It shows that 2/3 parts of the increased capacity for collapse are explained by the high capital gains in the upper part of the income. The majority of the remaining third is explained by the change in government policy on taxes and benefits. After a collapse, this was completely reversed, as a growing equation towards 1/3 part of government policy on tax and reforms was clarified, but 2/3 parts of the decrease in capital gain. Now, like the actions of the two governments that have worked after a collapse, the trend has again begun, and the government's actions have promoted inexorably. The share of the highest 5% increase in income was 17.3% in 1995 but was 22.6% in 2017 according to government tax management data. The share of income was 5.2% in 1995 but is now 9.4%. At the same time, the share of the 95%, of all the people, went from 82.7% to 77.4%. These figures very clearly show, Mr. President, that there is a growing inequities. Governments have controls that, at the same time, can soften and amplify the balance of income and possessions in society. The question is, How or how do they use these controls? Clearly, the policy of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is not to be used as a means of increasing the equation in 2019 to some degree, and a smaller portion of it is considered to be a great exaggeration, to say the least, of the spokesmen of the institutions of the budget to be equaled. The ASI central management has shown that the ASSI tax study shows that the tax burden of pay paid people is paid. 20 years have increased, and the more income becomes lower. In view of the job market situation, it is very serious that governments should not show understanding that it is necessary to respond to the labor movement's cry for change in housing support and that the tax system will be replaced as well as to promote child - growth reform systems. November 30th. Enclosed by the President's permission by the German Union of Iceland, the following challenge was made to the government: Iceland's public relations challenge the government to speed up all work, according to the demands of the labor movement in future dress-offs. If the lack of action and understanding that has been characterized by government response, it is clear that it will be difficult for the labour market to complete a new labour agreement. Only a little more than a month before a collective contract expires. Governments have made no quick efforts to solve the tremendous problem of housing. They need advice on tax issues, though, which are the key to the demands on the increased equation. For years it has been clear that national initiatives have to be made in housing. Many people are stuck under rents, insecurity, and cannot buy, and many live in unacceptable circumstances. This situation is even Yet, for a long time, the labor movement has pointed to the problem. Fixing the housing market has become an independent solution, and the compensations that have been negotiated for the past few years have been provided for the fire of housing costs. It requires radical changes in the system so that the interests of employees and households are put ahead of the interests of capital owners. The change in the tax system is an important step on the road to winding down the huge tax reimbursement that has taken place in the past few years, with minimum wage groups paying the bill for the nation's richest section. Here's where your priorities need to be changed. It is time to guide the interests of low-and middle-time workers by changing the tax system and increasing the child- and growth-replacement system. President. Government tax policy indicates how they want to live in the public and how governments want to see society developing. The role of the tax system and its effect on property and income distribution are just as important as its income share. Similarly, French economist Thomas Piketty suggested in his 2014 best - selling book that there will be step - apart capital taxes to increase the equation in the world. He believes that the tax system is the most effective instrument in the community to achieve the goal of reaching people's health. OECD, the National Institute of Economic and Development, published in December 2014 a study showing that increasing inequities reduces economic growth. These research and other respected studies show that more equations lead to more fairer societies and to economic and economic prosperity. Inequities, whether income or possessions, are increasing in this country. If governments want to level the game to increase social trust, both the tax and the improvement systems must be used. The main conclusion of a report by the Norwegian Minister, published in April 2000, is that increasing inequities in the North countries can be explained by failure to increase the pay rate in the past few years. If the government wants to work on a larger scale, they should handle this and make sure that welfare services are free or available for a very mild price. The tax system changes that contributed to greater recovery in this country would include more tax steps, higher personal discounts, stepwise capital taxes, and gross taxation on significant property beyond people's housing, as well as an increase in the importance of child reform and housing. If the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is going to reduce the inequities and have an equation in her decisions, the equality of the tax system must be stressed, the roof that has been restored in the five-year financial programme of the State, and the addition of a large amount of housing. But this is not done, Mr. President. The changes in recent years here on children's and housing improvements, value tax and income tax as well as resource deduction have all had negative effects on the equation. The results of international studies showing a negative impact on communities with Icelandic and national analyses that show a clear impact on the balance activities of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir government, should provide sufficient evidence to abandon policy inequities over the past few years and to avoid reproducing the mid-discrimination process. It is long time to revise the tax laws, and there must be both the income support and the income balance role. Individual articles have been changed many times since the implementation of the law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. For example, with the bill on various measures in accordance with the requirements of budgeting for 2019 that we address here, the provisional principle number 58 is added to the law. First floor. The bill is about the money limit between the lower level and the upper level of income taxation strain and changes according to the change in the index value of consumer prices. It's a good thing that the same criteria are when the personal discount and the sum of steps are changed, but it would have been more reasonable to believe that the change was accompanied by a pay number rather than a consumer's number and the same as about child development and growth. What a blessing it is that child - rearing should not be affected by the amount that is far below the minimum wage! Part 1, though, would like to remind you that it is only a few months ago that the government groups have made a suggestion from the United States to make such a suggestion. On the other hand, there is an increase in the number of intermediate groups with the changes. The child - reform system has been clearly weakened in recent years, and thousands of children's families have fallen out of the system. The government and the administrative body now suggest that by 2019 people under the center will have no child damages. They start cutting to the bottom quarter. The percentages of cuts have been far too cruel and are becoming even more cruel to the law. The model for the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter seems to be the International Bank Fund's proposal to raise the poor to children's families instead of looking to the Norwegian states for child reform to balance the status of the children with those who do not share children. In the past, child care has brought great financial loss. After the rise, child - welfare expenses are similar in value to those in 2013. Overall, housing support through the growth system has reduced the absolute value by more than 70% since 2013 and by more than 19,000 between 2013 and 2017. There has been a continuing increase since 2010, but a 5% increase is expected according to the bill and compared, since 2010, the prices have increased by 25% and the remuneration rates have increased by more than 76%. As a result, the system supports fewer and fewer homes. Young people who have little money in their homes now receive little or no support through the growth system. The government says why the growth reform system has been maintained for nearly a decade is that changes in the system are proposed. This argument is tender and does not hold water. During the waiting period for a reimbursement, housing markets are growing each year. More and more get no interest. A larger proportion of the income is earning interest, absorbing raise, and the situation wants to be the highest. The government and its members support the United States during the year 2019. With the change in the character discount, every taxpayer gets about 500 bucks. This will be an additional month for provisions. Operation costs a G2.2 billion bucks. In comparison, between the years and the billions of fishing costs are reduced by large productions in the country. The government's priorities are clear in this regard. Changes in the tax system to be presented at the end of this year are offered. There are only a few days left of this year and a meeting left on the fingers of one hand. If the tax system is to be changed by 2019, then the law will have to be accepted and the extra law will follow. 1st small sections consider work practices, slowness and failure of the government and the government's greater stigma. Finally, Mr. President. 1 less part supports the reduction of insurance costs and takes into account the greater part that the operation strengthens the competitiveness of the economy and gives companies more leeway in future labour contracts. Mr. President. This is a commission from the one that stands here representing the United States on the Economic and Business Committee. It is obvious from the view that the United States does not support this bill and critical government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir and the administrative body because they do not resort to the instruments that the State has to control in the tax system and the improvement system to increase the equation in this country. Inflexible progress, it shows all numbers. We're calming down exactly what was done here before a crash. A burnt child should avoid the fire, and the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir should know better unless it is simply a policy to break the gap between those who are very few and those who have most of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u24	Mr. President. We will discuss a bill to legalize various measures in line with the requirements of budgeting for 2019 C.E. I'm going to start by putting in only the special savings process. As noted in the Committee Department, the legal right to pay on mortgages and to purchase apartment housing to be dropped next year and thus the tax freedom that has been allowed to be used in this way for special savings. I've been involved in this case before with the budget talk. I think it is right to take a little further into that this is and has been about a very important option to discuss which the government has now decided to cancel, against the advice of a group on these matters in my 2017. As we know, paying off debts for those they can be is an effective way to make property a success. At any given time, the government should endeavor to create situations that encourage apartment owners to pay off debts as much as possible. By paying on an apartment loan with additional pension savings, the individual earns taxes and counterpayers, as well as the subsidies of the overall interest and compensation. Therefore, it is an important tool that includes the tax-free provision of special savings to the apartment purchases and the head seat of the housing bar. According to Department of Pension, this resource has been used considerably and more than 6,500 people have applied for resources on account of buying at their first apartment, but last October nearly 3,000 borrowed, and the same month more than 400 applications were received. This is according to the latest information from the head of the state tax, so there is a resource that is clearly widely used. In terms of domestic purchases, those who have taken advantage of this resource have been able to obtain the special property of the tax paid to buy an apartment, as noted. The head position of the housing bar has been permitted to pay up to 4% of the recruiter's contribution and 2% of the pay source, up to a maximum of 500,000 dollars. A year for an individual and 750,000 a year. Each year for married couples or others who qualify for a similar taxation. We all know that the prices of property in this country have gone up substantially in recent years, and other apartments have not met the demand. Most underlying factors indicate that now high - altitude property prices do not fall quickly. In spite of this, the government has decided to drop this important authority to use its special property savings to make apartment purchases and subsidies loans. This warrant falls down in the middle of the next year, as I have mentioned and observed. I believe this is a very unwise arrangement to discuss on the part of the government, and it will also reduce the accumulation of special savings instead of increasing the sources of this savings. As I said before, the prime minister appointed a team in June 2017 to review the role of pension funds in the building of a professional life. In fact, that group stressed extending space to special property and housing supplies. The staff returned a more difficult report at the beginning of this year. He proposes, provided that the minimum pay in pensions will be raised from 12% of the pay to 15.5%, that governments consider in agreement with stakeholders that the law will be adjusted to provide additional permission for extra pensional savings as well as that funds partners will be able to reserve 3.5% of the minimum legal value for special property or housing costs for their choice. In the meantime, loyalty becomes the flexibility of funds partners to use their special savings to cover mortgages and/or shopping. Calculations have shown that individuals who provide 15.5% of their pension income will accumulate relatively successful pensions. With additional pensions, pension can become more than a job. Thus, the staff suggests that governments consider increasing their authority on special savings and using the pay - related pension money to provide housing supplies. So here, the government goes against the advice of the Outfit. Thus, the decision of the government to eliminate this general budget for the assessment of property savings to buy an apartment or to pay for mortgages is to be contrary to these suggestions. That's very disappointing, Mr. President. The central category moved the change proposal to the budget bill that this warrant for the use of its special savings would remain with the people, so it would be extended when it expires within my next year. Sadly, though, this proposal was put here in a vote of the government class. Mr. President. Next time, I'd just like to step in on the housing and the growth issues. It cannot be seen that the State handles the housing problem with practical solutions. The housing support established by the government largely supports the demand side of the apartment market. Clearly, experience in recent years shows that this method is not successful. Support to demand side increases prices and encourages fluctuations. Increased housing needs to be done, and this will result in a decrease in housing prices. Tremendous increases in shelter prices in recent years are mainly due to lack of housing. We know that a small supply simply means higher prices, and apartments will not increase, although the government will add more money to interest. The root of the problem, the lack of open housing, must be resisted. And enough supply means a lower price. Efforts are required to reduce construction costs. The reductions in construction costs produce additional incentives for building. As a result, the supply increases and prices begin to decline. But it has to be said that the planning of these matters is way too hovery and too slow to work. Simple construction arrangements are needed. It's all too complicated and there's too much overrich demands in these areas, as well as the underlying environment in this series of languages, to my own inconsistencies. The rules must be agreed on, and the State's authority must be supported by developing this process, shortening the period of construction, perhaps going to other buildings, such as a house, wood or concrete, so that the buildup is rapid and simple. The bill points out that interest improvements from year to year should be increased by 13% and that 3.4 billion will be put into this category. Nevertheless, there is a historical small amount, with the huge increase in the prices of the past few years simply eating up these interest improvements. As we know, one of the primary growth reform factors is an increase in property. There are also other factors, such as increase in pay and capital pay. Since 2010, interest improvements have dropped by more than 8 billion. and the families entitled to these provisions have dropped by 30,000. In other words, a large number of people have been replaced, so they do not have a real amount of money at a rate of increase. Thus, deposit payments have reduced as much as the tax on homeowners have increased considerably. What matters is the limit of growth, when it starts to decline. In no way have the growth reforms and decay limits been correlated with prices. In addition, peak interest rates have remained almost the same since 2011. In 2009, 69% of the single property owners received interest, but in 2017 this number was down to 28%, ranging from 69% to 28% in six years. Therefore, growth reforms need to be modified. You can't see that there's so much to do in this bill. The principles of growth reform remain unchanged. The terms of interest rates and peak growth improvements increase by 5% and net share by 10% from current year. If the rules cannot be changed, this foretold growth rate is pointless, that's just the way it is. The system does not serve its purpose today, and it is simply a bad provision to add money to such a system. The growing reform system as it is today does not allow extra mortgage prices and higher interest costs. In fact, such a system is useless, especially in the existing housing conditions that have been in recent years. This may show how faulty this system is that in the bill for a budget for 2018, the interest rate is 1 billion k, i.e. One billion bucks. Didn't go out this year for interest improvements. This is simply because the system is in such a way that impairment results in fewer and fewer improvements. It crystallizes very well in the budgets. Let us not forget this discussion that Iceland has the largest amount of housing prices in the world, 70% in the last five years here in the capital area. In this regard it should be noted that the Substitution Fund has pointed out that growth reforms are the key to promoting the security of the people of the land according to their current circumstances. It is evident, therefore, that this is not the case with the State's expenses. It may be reasoned that the results may even get worse as the supply of housing does not increase. As a result, growth in interest of interest from house to house may result in an increase in housing prices. The media is of that opinion and insists that there will be a full reexamination of the growth reform system. This clearly shows the negative evolution of this system in recent years, and I've been tracking it. In addition, the growing aid system tends to increase the interest level, which involves subsidies of budgetary expenses. In addition, it is known that reforms encourage debt. Therefore, a careful consideration should be given to whether this system is not more effective in subtracting from its present form, thus reducing the tax burden in another way. The present system supports demand side support, as I mentioned, and is designed to increase real estate prices and interest benefits, and the measures the government does not raise the number of apartments on the market. I've traced it here, and we can clearly see it. So it is vital to give specific support to the forward side. Both Swedish and American studies have shown that by supporting the forward side, i.e. has incentives to increase the number of buildings, would reduce housing prices, the number of apartment owners, and the debt of tenants is reduced. Would the approach to a country that the Central Party believes would be reduced to the current growth reform system. But there is a great deal of work to do when it comes to housing, where the present system does not solve the big housing problem in Iceland. The government must take the initiative and boldness in the housing and bring new solutions. This is one of the biggest solutions we are facing, but unfortunately, the government has been useless in this case. It does not contain any ideas or solutions; it preserves only a growth reform system that, in turn, maintains the problem. Mr. President. I want to end up with the insurance only. Icelandic tax returns are high in international comparison, and one of the highest is in the north, behind Norway. In an effort to close the budget, companies were raised after the 2008 financial collapse, but tax changes have been established since then. The government's failure to cut down on insurance has been severe. This is one of the largest income markets in the state's budget, but according to the financial bill, it's due about 14.4% of the next year's tax revenues. The central category expresses its frustration by stating that the budget is not expected to drop more insurance money than it does. This high insurance fee is worst for companies where pay and pay-related fees are a large part of the cost and we know that high insurance costs undermine the competitiveness of these important enterprises. Improving Iceland's competitiveness is very important as the economy slows down rapidly. The Government Treaty specifically highlights the decline of the insurance fee, but it is not sufficient according to the Central Party and the Industrial Association as well. It is very important that the company's foundation be strengthened in the leading of these final talks and will undoubtedly be difficult. That is why a greater reduction in the insurance bill would have been reasonable, according to our assessment in the Central Party. If the decline is to promote balance in the labour market and next year's pay increases are less likely to result in in inflation, the cost should have been reduced further. The higher the insurance fees, however, are, the more expensive to the companies, so the enterprise cannot pay much remuneration. In addition, paying reduces the ability of an enterprise to invest and create jobs. So, as we know, corporate growth potentials are blocked by high insurance costs. The middle class moved the change proposal to the budget that the insurance bill would be dropped by 0.5% next year instead of 0.255%, and unfortunately, this proposal was dropped. It is very wise, as I said before, to strengthen the foundation of the enterprises in the leading leading of what lies ahead. It's disappointing that the government hasn't dropped that price more. Mr. President. Finally, I have to say, the Central Party is unable to support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u25	Mr. President. We are here to discuss one of the most important steps under discussion for each council, i.e. The income side of the budget. Now we have just accepted the budget, other budget of the current government, but the first ones were known to be in heavy running and the government was partially behind it and said that it was. The senators were to wait and see if there would be no more attendance during the day. It would have been necessary to make much more investments in both health and education and transportation, which is, in fact, the idea of improving with some road tax proposals that are still unsurpassed. But we, first of all, need to spit on and put more money in school, in education, in innovation, in science, in all the factors needed to cope with the enormous change in the future that we will face in the coming years. None of this is done. In fact, the left green scratches out of the problem by saying in a vague way that they do not believe in long - term major system changes unless they are very largely at peace. So, what's the deal, Mr. President? Yes, accepting the IRS policy of the Independence Party. Indeed, the idea of the combination, of the tax system, is most clearly expressed by groups of society and attitudes of equality or inequities. Right men tend to talk about a minimum taxation, an emergency bread that is primarily thought to earn minimum income in order to care for the necessities of the ministry. Meanwhile, we talk to socialists about the need for taxes. Of course, they need such services, but the tax system is also a powerful tool, and perhaps the most efficient, to distribute wealth in a just way between people. It does not in itself have to go beyond that of French economist Thomas Pikettyr, the highest. The prime minister has repeatedly quoted and expressed admiration. That is exactly what he says, that drastic measures must be taken in our time to prevent more and more wealth from gathering. In fact, I'm afraid now that we face a new technology, a digital revolution, in which not only the human hand will be unnecessary in very many cases, but the human mind, as well as many and more production jobs, will actually be replaced without man's arrival. Of course, new jobs and others are being developed, but we have to deal with the fact that this is the case in many companies. In some way, we need to start thinking about our tax system so that those who own the manufacturing device, those who own the budget, will not be even faster than that, and the public will be left behind. Not to be talked about the government needed to have income that they can use to ensure welfare systems, health systems, people, disability even born into this world with no chance of providing for themselves at any time in their lives but that they still have part of all the common resources of man and therefore have the right to live with dignity. Then, most important, I speak of elderly ones who have worked hard to build up and to get the world's things back to their standing, especially in Iceland, one of the poorest countries in Europe decades ago but who are now wealthy. These people also deserve to be able to live their final years in an event - but primarily so that they do not need to be anxious every day. Mr. President. In the United States, however, the situation is sad that even people in the middle of income, not to mention low incomes, do much more than just make ends meet from month to month. If something happens, if something happens, if the car breaks down, if a household appliance breaks down, if a coat goes missing or breaks, the family is in trouble. It will then come to an end because of the need to borrow on interest, a far higher than any abroad, which may lead us to conclude that we should not always be putting new and new funds in the circumstances of living at the Icelandic crown, which is the richest person who puts the public in the country's affairs at regular intervals. Speaking of that, we live in a time in which a small percentage of Icelanders, several percent of Icelanders, have much of all waste and can play with that money, move them out of a petal system to another coin and back, depending on the way the winds blow and continue to profit by the rumblings and downs of the crown while the public is trapped. The public is experiencing this right now, the people who have not had an unprecedented economic growth that has lasted for many years. Now that we're on our way down the hill, their shoulders, their interest, their growth, their food ratings go up, their apartment loan goes up, and the property that appeared in numbers as average earners in the country is, in fact, when all things are done, not by hand, but by means of money that has resulted in the rise of apartment prices. It will be interesting to see in the years that this rate changes, when the mortgage debt increases with the loans. Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, huh? paritaprevir The Company has provided a very careful committee opinion so I will not stay long on some of the factors. But I must say that all socialism, all socialism groups with dignity, were fighting for a completely altered tax system. Socialism classes would immediately have made some kind of contract plans for such a change, for the application of social stability and equations to respond to the dross of the work market. It doesn't mean anything to the government to come right now and say, "We'll respond, and we'll check your demands, or we'll put a team in charge of housing. It is simply too late, apart from the fact that ambitious socialists do not use such cases as change in collective agreements, even pushing down the normal pay requirements of the workers. The Union has long foretold that there should be a step - by - step tax here, since the less elected paying of the lowest taxes are more than we, with a huge salary, are more involved. The fact is, however, since 1994 taxes have increased at the lowest rate while taxes on the highest pay have been dropped. It's unacceptable. It may not be possible to change it in one way, but I do not see in government policy, under the seat of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and left green, or even if there is a sign of a change in course, that there is a policy from a society of increasing inequities and that the righteous community, on the contrary. The organization has also spoken of how we should use such transfer systems as child reforms and reforms, which are a most effective and effective means of assisting those in the most difficult situations. Although changing child reforms is good for the government, it is not limited to minimum income, it is not enough because the decline rate is shifting, and there is too much more to interact with. It can be noted that the suggestions shown in this document on child reform are suggestions that were incorporated in the United States not long ago. The positive thing is that insurance is being dropped. The insurance bill is too high and often obligatory in a small and medium-sized enterprise, often in a company in the innovation and ingenuity sector that we need so much to be lost, where there is more or less salary and much higher than in larger production sectors. So we support it. Even if the step is not large, it is understandable because it is very expensive to use it. We can also rejoice that the beating of a person will increase. We rejoice that despite everything that had been turned away from lowering the lower level that would have given me three times more than the minimum wage, it is better to increase the personal discount. But the increase is no greater than that, Mr. President, at 500 K. per month. Now who can wonder what they'll get for 500 bucks. In Iceland today, where there is a price for food and necessities, there is much higher because the government refuses to recognize the need to examine the possibility of a different and stable currency that would bring us lower prices and lower interest. Speaking of growth, the Democratic Union, the labor movement, the workforce, the workforce, and the professional drivers speak of the need to make peace in a winter labour market is an effort and a huge effort in housing. I believe, however, that we must begin to disappear from always being in conflict, always in worthwhile favors, and rather try to build a stable tenement for the future mixed, which is a mixture of apartments on private property and rents with loyal terms for tenants. It is a long - term project, but the government is now responding by setting up a team. The United States made a concierge arrangement for eight housing teams one and a half months ago and the highest. Social Affairs minister did not even show up during the discussion, not when it was recommended. What was he doing? Yes, he was at a meeting with other stewards to discuss the need to resolve the housing issues. Three weeks later, a group was announced. These are all the suggestions that we know to be able to change into the chamber, and the idea behind them was nothing more than to offer a good deal, because we know this needs to be solved. So I'll name four, preferably because the situation is today, there are a lot of young people who pay even more rent than they would have to pay if they had a home. Others want rent, and we see that people have greater mobility, that they can actually work anywhere in the world. This is totally different from when we were young. That's why we're supposed to add more money to start up, where we're living under tenants that run without being profitless. I think it's very important. Third, I think that it is necessary to place some problems on the responsibility of rural society when it comes to social housing, a home for the most ill in society. Now it's under the heel. It's Reykjavík and Akureyri, who do their best, and then there's Kópavogur and Hafnarfjörður and maybe some others, and other rural communities are totally neglecting this. We simply want it to be such that a certain proportion of apartments in all rural areas is owned by a community in social management. Fourth, it's the building order. I want to spend some time with her because of what. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children were there. It is true that the building order needs to be simplified. But it does not matter how we do it. We must not do so indefinitely by cutting quality. We might be able to meet the viewpoint he spoke to, e.g. recombinant production by harmonizing with the rest of the North countries. I'm not sure that many people realize that people require a higher entrance door in Iceland than they do. correspondent in Sweden, Iceland's air altitude is higher than anywhere else. This is gonna sound innocent, but if you're gonna order a party in one block in Iceland, you're gonna have to pay a lot more because something special needs to be done for our market. Why is it impossible for us to have such a situation similar to that of others? As building speed increases, we live as a poisonous cocktail in Iceland when it comes to construction projects. The production is lower, considerably lower than, e.g. In Norway, at the same time as financial expenses are much higher. The cost of building is higher than what it needs to be, and then it comes to the fact that the person buying this prepared apartment needs to buy it at a higher level than our neighbors elsewhere in the North countries. I don't have much to do, so I don't think it's best to end what I've killed three times in my speech, although this isn't part of a discussion here. I cut by the fact that Ragnar Ingólfsson, president of VR, spoke of it. He said that this would certainly not be discussed in the collective agreements during the winter, but the labor movement would have to discuss it. We all have to do it because it's a big matter of life. This is especially a matter of life for those with the slightest income in the country. I don't really know what special interests are going on by saying no all the time because this would definitely do the highest. Secretary of finance is much easier to put in plans for long-term business in Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u26	Mr. President. It is interesting to consider the government's income plans in relation to the government's own declarations on their main priorities. The image that has been drawn for us, and we have warned that it is very dangerous from an economic point of view that it is a government that is about to reduce taxes but big expenses. Surely we have seen the government's payouts very closely, although we can debate the priorities of their spendings, but the government has increased the expenses of the state's budget by 100 billion dollars. over a year's work with their budgets for 2018 and the budgets just paid for 2019 This financial elation alone has not even been enough because the government has added it to an additional 30 billion, at least in two allowances, to money supplies by 2017, and then back to 2018. These are 130 billion who have been spitin' in the government's budget for no longer time, but when it comes to what I call the eavestery politics or placard politics, those that this government has been doing, we believe in above it is to lower taxes, which you see in the day when you begin to study government's income plans that it is a good idea to do the opposite. She's raising taxes. It confirmed the dog. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson may well have been when he came up with a discussion about the government's bandorm, which was for the vote of the previous year, when he expressed his special pleasure over the tax policy being shaped in this great contribution to the government. What do we really see - for much has been said about the alleged taxes made by the government? The government decides to take the brilliant advice to stop raising the tax system on pay and to raise it according to price. This means a built - in and constant rise in taxation into our income tax system into eternity. It may be very comfortable to take this discussion just once, but it's fine - I have to describe a special pleasure. The Economic and Business Committee is to step in there and put the sun rules on that nonsense. Of course, in the long run, it is risky to plan to allow these weight - control levels to reduce the cost of buying so that there is a lasting increase from year to year. The money tax has been raised. Children's interest reforms have failed despite the government's plan to raise them. Then it is worth remembering a year ago when the majority of them gave all the suggestions on both the woodcutting and the cohesion to try to maintain child - and - interest levels compared with the pay raise and the financial gains that had become available. There was a special consideration of all the fees of the state funds for the payment of these budgets, including the annual budgets. up to ten years of up to a range of unregistered fees were implemented at a time when in many cases during recent GDP, the price was established in a number of cases. It is good to remember that the record of a private partner now costs over 130,000 bucks, if I recall that number correctly, and that is due to the proportion of minimum stock capital at 500,000 U.S. dollars. A pretty high ratio. It is the very best thing in our neighboring countries when these things happen. Rather, these governmental taxes alone are not enough. Rather, it is foretold that this is now a handsome payment to finance the necessary projects and the necessary maintenance of the road system because this enormous expansion is not enough to really care for the basic activities of the State. This has nothing more than a serious tax rise. No matter what our attitude on the importance of these projects is, this increase in taxation in the general population, in the country's tax increase, in particular in the population of the southwest corner, and in the course of this plan, after course, a significant tax increase, e.g. has people who work through the footways to and from the capital area who are due to be charged with paying due fees. All talk about the government's tax downturn is a delusion, but surely it can be said that the government has decided to seriously reduce the budget and may, in this context, argue that the government is bringing a tax burden on the economy and on individuals. Then we can debate how good that priorities are for the government. It is obvious that in this vast financial joy, there will be something about giving up, and despite declarations on the contrary, we see that the government is now looking for all ways to add a curse to individuals to finance future expenses. I think we're just starting to see the government's income harvest problem. As we see at the same time, there are signs of slowing down in the economy, including slowing down. In private consumption, which is the main source of income funds. I could believe that the government will face a significant challenge when it comes to 2019, that income will depend on the payoffs already made. It is well to remember, too, that it is so well expressed in the budgets and the government's revenues about how narrow it is, how small solutions it really has for the public in the country to provide. She sees an opportunity to increase the expenses of the government, but she sees no opportunities where we have the biggest opportunities to increase the cost of the population. That is precisely when it comes to growth and food prices. It's so amazing to see a government that thinks it's working for the public that we're shoving away the simple fact that food prices here are with the highest known in Western countries and interest levels typically 5 percent higher than in our neighboring countries and just by reaching as close as we can. In this regard, our neighbor in the North countries could save a family of four people 150,000,200,000 dollars. the amount of expenses per month. I'm assuming that for a mid- Rent family, this would correspond to 20 to 30% of your salary. This is, of course, what any future bargains should be about most of the time. I can say with what. I hope that the labor Logi will Einarsson its power to pressure the government. This is where the nation's real interests lie, the nation's real interests. If we were to succeed in returning that bonus to the public without any cost to our professional life, we would certainly have a good day's work done. But I guess it's too much to ask the government to do such reforms. It will always be better and better to see that the present government is a watchdog of the same state. The government has no ideas about any real system change, but its eco-efficiency is great and what becomes more apparent is that its ideas for tax gains are also.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u27	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the members of the health committee's committee's assessment of bill to legalize the adjustment of law No. 83/1994, of the Children's Agent. The committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for its meeting with several visitors, as mentioned in the committee, but I especially want to mention the young ones who visited the Committee's Committee, Inga Huld Auður and Sigurjóna Pálsdóttir Freygarðsdóttir from a child's advisory group, expedition of the Hauksdóttir of the Child, and Sigurdell of the Youth Council of UNICEF and Þorsteinsson from the Rán Council of Youth. I think I speak for the entire welfare committee when I say it was particularly enjoyable to meet these young ones and have an opportunity to communicate with them and to hear their view of how the government would bring about children and how it could be improved. So it was a very pleasant meeting during a sleep. The welfare committee. There were reports from the Children's Department, the National Association of the Older Citizens, the Developmental Fund, the Iceland's Human Rights Office, the Federal Protection and the Union of Iceland. As in the bill report, the aim is to further explain the role of the children's emissary according to the emphasis on child rights, including the children's rights. in the United Nations Convention on Child Rights and United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disregarding Child Rights. In accordance with this emphasis, it is suggested that there be a legal law on a child - care body so mentioned where the status and development of children will be considered in the main areas of society. The role of the relief team of children's agents is also legalized. The law on the Children's Agents has not changed much since 1994, but at the same time, much has changed in society and its attitude toward children and young people has changed substantially, especially with the legalization of the United Nations Children's Covenant in 2013. The changes included in the bill lay the basis for this office to become a stronger and more effective advocate of children. It is estimated that the cost of the proposed change will be about 24 billion. K. A year, but that amount is expected in the budget bill. [[Up front.]] Money, yeah, let's say, we've even agreed to a budget. [[Top of the hall, shop.]] It's natural, Mr. President, so unusual how good it was to complete the budget. This is where the law of the law should be held, naturally. The Commission reviewed the changes made in the bill following its publication in the Commission's Communications Precise on the basis of the importance of the office's particular appearance to the rights of disabled children and was added to it in comment on Article 1. The bill. Advertisers also pointed out this, specifically referring to groups of children that are exposed for some reason or that would be cut off by some other reason. The committee agrees. The committee also agrees with the importance of the importance of their service where the need is greatest, and it also reminds us that such emphasis is fully in harmony with the Law of the children's covenant. The reviews generally supported the matter. There were many reporters who emphasized the support of the office of the children's emissaries. Then it was especially welcome to see how visible the children's covenant was in the changing of the bill, e.g. by establishing the counseling group, which I mentioned earlier, which he has in fact worked for a long time in the office. Now it is established by a change of law. One of the new projects commissioned by the agency is the collection and sharing of data on the status of children in Iceland. This was said to be of great importance to the committee, since information has often been desperately lacking. At the same time, it was stated that the office and The Haust had signed a declaration of will to begin the preparation of this process. Another new assignment, as I mentioned earlier, will be considered in which child - care programs will be developed in key areas. There, an active share of children in planning and implementing is expected. There will be an important opportunity for conversation between children and rulers at any given time. So the committee specifically points to the head of the Generals to consider the timing of the Synod in planning a work programme so that it is possible for members of the Parliament to attend. The review also pointed out the importance of regular consultation with children by the Council. This was especially true by young representatives, especially when it comes to subjects that are particularly relevant to them. It was also said that the bodies of the council were not always particularly accessible to children, and even wondered if it would be advisable to consider perhaps offering special childhood or adolescent versions from the Web site so that children would be better able to identify the issues under discussion, perhaps especially the issues dealing with children. The committee proposes a change of 5. The bill, then 5. Children's agent shall be referred to E Company's Act 3. Section 3. Then, too, a change in the wording of Article 2 of paragraph 6. that the United Nations Convention on Child Rights should be taken into account in a report on child status. The committee suggests that the bill will be approved by a change made in the opinion of the committee. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson were away at the hearing of the case. Halldóra Mogensen was absent from the case, but literature was considered to be in accordance with the warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees. Hence, under references to publications by Halldóra Mogensen, chairman of the Committee, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Director of History, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Guðjón of Brjánsson Brjánnánsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Alex B. Stefánsson, and Óskarsdóttir María.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u28	A respectable president. I would like to thank the welfare committee for the well - being of this case, for it is very important to discuss this matter. I'm glad it's come so far. I'd like to review some of the points that you might consider taking into account this case and even in the future. First, according to the committee opinion, the active participation of children in the planning and implementation of the council is expected. There is an important opportunity for conversation between children and rulers. It pointed out that the timing would be so that members of the council could participate. There is also a matter to discuss in the board of administration and monitoring committees to address at council meetings. When the matter was presented, I suggested that the Synod be given the opportunity to use the council hall. It would even be a good idea to address the council, perhaps at the end of a baby council, at the end of or something, and present key findings, etc., in relation to the bill of the administration and monitoring committee. At least there'd be a chance for more conversation and bigger size. Maybe it wouldn't start there, but there's something we can keep in mind for the future, i.e. how a baby council will be made, to make it a little more serious, as you say. I have been concerned that many things related to this youth council are done more on punt, as a show, where youths express themselves, but often they are not listened to. But it has proved to be true of many young people that when they hear them well and apply their suggestions, they are very powerful. In line with this, I came up with this idea during the last term, where I spoke to children on behalf of Porta's Congress, whether it would be possible to establish the Youth Council of the World, which could work much more, both through the office and the Committee and even the members of Congress, in making certain things more accessible, as mentioned here. It is not always easy to access the websites and the documents of the Generals. This would be a challenge for youths at the council and would even be associated with the Young People's General, the School Hall, here on a regular basis. With regard to Allied websites and documents, which are not readily available, we have a church resolution adopted in 2015, about the computerized format of laws and other Senate documents. If we were to work according to that synonym and start returning the laws and documents we operate in computerized forms, it is very easy to improve the appearance and make it more accessible for others, for example. with comments, bigger letters, metaphors, and so on. In other words, having the same text in kniffs form, in precise form, with excerpts and things that could be used to enrich the text that comes from the General Assembly. He's a little dry, must say. A little girl. At any rate, the interpretation that the Council has already agreed to give us the opportunity to do exactly what is requested in this committee party. I look forward to seeing the first Synod, and I hope to see it in this chamber. I look forward to finally starting to follow the council resolution that has already been adopted by the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. In fact, in my speech I forgot to thank you earlier. The welfare committee for the job in this case, and they do it here, even though that may not be the nature of the answer. There's good reason to thank you. However, I would like to agree with this idea. The senator said that we should consider the possibility of establishing the General Youth Council, as do some of the children's emissaries and other members. That might be a fun idea. It's probably possible to develop such an aspect in connection with the already fired school council. Now I'm not going to say that I've had some big experience meeting the children and young people who came to a social committee meeting; yet, it does open up a little bit to you that children and young people really don't see things quite the way we are. And even if you have personally enjoyed the happiness of raising children, it is not the same as accepting counsel from children. That's why I think this can be a brilliant idea. But I don't quite like this at an early stage, buying the idea of making sure that the Children's Council would be here because it might be a little bigger than it would be in this councilroom. At least I hope so. that there will be mass participation at such a meeting, so that both adults and children will have to talk to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u30	A respectable president. I may not necessarily mean that the Synod would be held in the Senate Hall. Rather, it would be granted access to the Assembly Hall to perhaps have some special event or something similar. Thank you. A senator is very much overcrowded with the Council of Youth. I think it's a very obvious idea that should definitely give us a chance. Maybe it won't work yet. The general body is a little different than the locals and the emissary of children. It could probably not be the exact same form. But that's just how you work these days. You work with innuendos, tests one arrangement, sees what's on it, and snaps it off, and you just work to make it better as a result. At first, however, we will never reach perfection, especially if we have never tried it before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u31	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill that helps to strengthen the position of children in Icelandic society and thus contribute to the continuation of the UN Convention on Child Rights. I'd like to thank the Committee for a good review on the bill. I spoke to 1. Um... just a little bit, because I'm one of the members of the Synod's spokesmen and I have to say that it's with fun roles that you get here as a senator to do that job. It is so interesting to see how much these young people have to do and talk about how much we need to start putting on our children's glasses, as they have said. We have similar ideas when we talk about gender equality and put our glasses on. I think that many members of Congress have made this increasingly their own. It is also interesting to watch all the matters out of your children's eyes. I agree with what. A senator who earlier said that raising a child is one thing and another is accepting counsel from children. I like to get into this discussion right now because just moments ago the Icelandic high school organization was visiting us as members of the Independence Party. I know that the young ones, if not all, have visited most of the council groups just to cover the work they are doing. They were even. to say that they were always there and ready to give us advice, to participate in what we're doing here. I asked if they would at times be able to give reviews of bills. Yes, it was, but perhaps all too seldom, perhaps because we forget here at the council to refer important issues about children to parties like these. I think we may be inclined to think about it. When we discuss such matters, we can better keep that in mind. That is why it was good for me to see that the committee had been contacted by a group of Children's Advisor and Youth Council of Children, whom I consider very important. I have to say, too, that I find it very beautiful that the older citizen's national partnership also gave me a review of the situation. I think it's very comfortable that we're talking about one of our youngest groups and then our oldest group and how everyone seems to agree on the importance of this. I just wanted to come up with the idea of a baby council. One girl I met earlier, as we were walking through the Assembly Hall Hall and we were asking if they had come to the Assembly Hall, said: "Yes, I just came here to the open house, I love to come into the chamber. We were explaining that when we receive guests, and if there is no meeting in the hall, there are, well, doors open, and you can show the children here into the hall. But no one can step in here, all equal. I feel that it has been so successful with us on December 1 when we opened the house, and I would like to encourage us to do so more often. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Therefore, I think it is a very good idea when it comes to a discussion, whether it is a baby council or some members of a baby council, here to address us or to instruct us about what has happened as a child council or something, that it would be very useful to do so here in this room. We are also dealing with democracy, and I know that many schools are doing a great job when it comes to democracies. Yet, we still see a shrinking campaign program, which is very sad because when you talk with children and young people, they usually have strong opinions about most things. I think this is one of the measures we could take to increase the democracies of young people, and I would like to encourage specific examination. I also agree wholeheartedly with what is said in the Commission opinion, where the committee directs it to the head of the Generals to take into account the timing of a Synod in planning a plan, such as most members of the Parliament will be allowed to attend the council. I think that's a very important point. If you don't, I appreciate the welfare committee for this job. I like this and enjoy seeing it when we have such good things and a broad solidarity. I think everybody's signing the commission, allegors, and that's good when we can have such a case. Hopefully, more such matters will be seen in the next few days and in the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u32	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a change form from a health committee on bill to correct a law change of 46/1980 for equipment, method of loyalty, and security at work, with subsequent changes. This is about the working hours of employees who provide personal assistance to the user. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Halldór Grönvold by the National Socialist Association of Iceland, Rúnar Björn Herreri of Iceland's Þorkelsson-Screet Association, Hjörtur Örn Eysteinsson from the NPA Center, Bryndís Snæbjörnsdóttir of Germany and Bjarnheiður Gautadóttir and Eva Kristinsdóttir, of the Ministry of Health. There were reports from the Allied Union of Iceland, BSRB, the National Organization for Development, the MND Society in Iceland, the NAPA Center, the Union of Iceland and the workforcers. The bill suggests an extension of the time of the provisional regulations 9 on the legislation on the provision, method of loyalty, and security of work sites to 31 December 2020. Interim regulations 9 allow the labour market organisations a permit to make an agreement to deviate from the regulations of 53th and 56th. The law on rest time and the night work of the workers who work on user-controlled personal help. It is then suggested that, on the basis of a new law on the service of disabled persons with long - term needs, be referred to employees who perform individual services. The history of the bill. With a factor of 3. The law to change the law on how to handle equipment, method of loyalty, and security in the workplace and the law on the affairs of disabled people, No. 80/2015, provisional regulations were added to the laws on the preparation, method of loyalty, and safety of work, No. 46/1980. The Regulation allows the labour market organisations to deviate from legal requirements on the period of rest and night working performed by those who provide individual services on the basis of the cooperation of government, rural society, and the overall association of disabled persons with personal staff under temporary regulations IV on the current laws on disabled people's affairs, No. 59/1992. The provisional regulations 9 in the laws on equipment, loyalty and safety at work were intended to apply for the same time as provisional regulations IV in the laws on the affairs of disabled people, or until the end of 2016. Qualifications for temporary regulations 9 in the laws on the regulations, method of loyalty, and safety at work were extended to the end of 2017 by law. 128/2016 and again with law No. 93/2017 to the end of 2018, or to a validation of a law that would require the right to the user - controlled personal assistance. A Law on Long - Suffering Needs, No. 38/2018, confirmed October 1st, 2018. At the execution of the law, the provisional regulations fell, and there is considerable uncertainty concerning legitimate agreements on the user - controlled personal assistance made since October 1st, 2018. According to a report on the bill, while the bill is scheduled to legalize the ship of Ministers, a temporary committee led by the Ministry by representatives of the Federal Association of Iceland, the Alliance of Colleges, BSRB, finance and economic services, the National Institutes of Development, the Union of Business Association, the European Union of the European Union, the European Union of Employment Organization, the European Union of the Union. The committee's even. aims to monitor whether the rights of the staff working on the basis of a law on the services of disabled persons with long-term supportive needs are respected and provided with proposals for changes in the law or regulations relating to the rights and working conditions of the workers. Discuss the matter with the welfare committee. A review of the Committee presents the view that by the law on the services of disabled persons with long - term support, user - controlled personal assistance is no longer a personal project but the legal right of those who need such assistance, according to Article 11. The law. It is important that a comprehensive review of the work environment of those working to provide personal assistance and that the rights of those who render the service will be ensured in a comparable way to those in a general labour market. The committee agrees with that view. Then the special nature of the ministry and the need to provide an exception from the minimum working time rules on the equipment, method of loyalty, and safety at work to ensure the minimal service required to disabled persons with long - term needs. In this regard, users of the ministry found that frequent shift changes were inappropriate for users, and the long shifts on which the service is based were often given enough rest time within the schedule. They pointed out that employees who perform the ministry often wish for long shifts, where there is time to rest within shifts. It was also shown that the a-type 1st paragraphs. The bill would be too extensive, for it would be referred to all the employees who serve on the basis of a law on services to disabled persons with long - term needs and not to just those who work in the way of personal help. It's the health committee's opinion. The Commission takes into account the importance of the assessment of the work environment of employees who are acting in personal assistance and that a clear policy on the future work environment of the service will be established. In this regard, it is necessary that the temporary committee expected a minister to start a job as soon as possible and work out how to ensure that employees' rights in relation to the specific nature of the service. Sets the committee to provide the length of the recommended law for b-dimer 1.mg. The bill will be changed to the date of December 31, 2019. The Committee agrees with the opinion of the Regulations of Article 1. The bill is too extensive. According to the report on the bill, the aim of it is only to extend the release of the labour market partners in order to clear away the resttime and night hours due to employees who provide personal assistance to the user. That service is recommended in Article 11. The law of services to disabled people with long - term needs. Sets the committee to stipulate Article 1. The bill will be modified to refer to Article 11. The laws on service mentioned above. The committee points out that according to Article 2. The bill takes effect on October 1, 2018, and is therefore retrospective. Since the current provisional 9 legislation on the management, loyalty, and security of work areas fell from a value of October 1, 2018, there is a measure of uncertainty with the value of the contracts for user-controlled personal assistance that have been done since that date. The Committee believes that the law will immediately be valid, but it will be specifically called b-dr-dr-d-dr. to take into account the agreements made between October 1, 2018, and December 31, 2018. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes: 1st We're on 1st. a. Prior to the words ▪ Song No. 38/2018 in a-a-team coming up: 11 par. b. The B Company has become as follows: 2 mg. phrases like: This principle applies to December 31, 2018, and the agreements made between October 1, 2018, and December 31, 2018. 2. 2.g. put it this way: This law has already been valid. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson was away from the hearing. Hv. Ásmundur Friðriksson and Halldóra Mogensen were absent from the case, but publications are considered to be in accordance with clearance at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under this opinion all the committees write, or why. Councilmen Halldóra Mogensen chairman, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ingi In Jónsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Alex B. María and Óskarsdóttir Marísdosdótir. A respectable president. At the end, I want to thank my partners on the welfare board for the cooperation of this case. There was great loneliness in the case of the committee that we would finish it together and agree with each other. It is very important that we obtain the ideologies behind the user - controlled personal assistance in the law, and that is why a committee has been appointed to find ways to continue in that service the great goodwill and peace that have been marked since the beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for his history and like a whale. A senator, I thank you very much. The welfare committee for her work on this matter. I come up first and foremost to agree especially with the changes the committee makes on the bill and to reiterate the importance of what was actually presented. The senator, who has appeared before in the platform, to the welfare committee, at least Not for my part, I consider the extension of this provisional principle, not as a permanent landing in this matter, but primarily as a provisional principle. I would like to reiterate the importance of those coming in, i.e. The welfare services of the labour market and the labour market members, gather together and the local community so that this new form of service for people with great need can continue to grow and thrive in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u34	President. Thank you. An executive for the review of the committee opinion, but it's important to come up here and say that if you have a problem, it's important. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson talked about being alone, and everyone would have agreed, and he was very interested in the need of this law, not necessarily that it was a good thing. It would have been better for me if this job had started much earlier. This is a natural provision from which laws are being set aside. NPA support has been in an experimental phase for quite a few years. This is a work that should have been done much earlier so that we would have been prepared for some vision in these matters and would not have to agree with temporary regulations again. That's all I wanted to do. I wanted to be clear. That was even. Why we decided to reduce the time to one year in order to keep this work going and it would start off well, so that we would not have to compromise the law of sleep and night work, but could find a lasting solution that works for users of the NAPA services and also those who serve and work for this purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u35	A respectable president. I thank you for putting this committee forward to us on the welfare committee. It is a joy to see that the decision is based on a solidarity on the committee, but the result was not entirely unsatisfactory, since there are weaknesses in this great and good work that we are contributing to, in turn, to promote the user - controlled personal assistance. We want that assignment to be successful. However, as we have seen, there are obstacles, and we continue to request that the rules of this law apply, i.e. the rest period. We're asking for a yearly deadline to arrange for this to fall into a general law of law. I hope it works. It is urgent that we work hard. I would like to thank my members for the cooperation to achieve this, since there is high expectations among those who are disabled that these services increase the sorrow of fish and in contracts. This will be the great challenge in our work and in our ministry over the next few years and more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u36	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Commission and monitoring committee for a bill to correct the conversion of the Alduke's agent's law, No. 85/1997, with subsequent changes, due to OPCAT monitoring. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of guests. There were reviews about the case from Amnesty International, the Children's Institute for Human Rights and UNICEF in Iceland and Peritoneal Protection. The commission also received a memo from the U.S. Marshal's commission and information from the office of the district attorney. The bill suggests that the U.S. government agent will be assigned to supervise the United Nations Convention on torture and other cruel, inhuman or demeaning treatments or punishments for, so called OPCAT. With Parliamentary Reunion No. 8/145, from December 19, 2015, the General Assembly signed for the United States on September 23, 2003, together with the immediate preparation of its implementation here on land. It is assumed that the validation of the Protocol on the part of Iceland will take place when the bill has been decommissioned at the General Assembly. According to the Protocol, there are two types of monitoring, i.e. The monitoring of international and national bodies. The bill suggests that an agent will be committed to national checkups according to the book. The Committee concluded that OPCAT was successful in the work of an agent, particularly in view of the independentness of foreign authority. The importance of the office was then shown to provide funding for the development of the expertise and to attend regular monitoring visits at places where free - minded individuals are staying. The report on the bill shows that to ensure that the future monitoring will be carried out in accordance with the commitment established by the European Commission by validation of the book, an additional amount of money has to be assumed in financial and financial programmes. The Commission notes that an agent is appointed to supervise state and rural administration and to ensure the rights of the citizens of the country's governments and that further projects in that land are in good condition that the role of the U.S. Council agent is in order to ensure that sufficient funds are guaranteed to be handled in accordance with the commitments involved in the review and stress that this is the case. The committee found that those under the supervision will fall and be responsible for individuals who have been deprived of their freedom in one way or another are given a huge responsibility. It is important that such tasks be carefully and carefully carried out and that strong surveillance is being carried out. It was observed that increased monitoring is being welcomed as quality and improved by the services assigned to the individual. The Commission agrees with these viewpoints and believes that the project will be successful in the role of an agent, as stated earlier, but the preparation for accepting the project has been made for some time at the agency's office and that already follow-up visits have been made to the institutions under the supervision of the agent, e.g. mental hospital on Slurpee and Stinger. The OPC will be operated within the agency's initiatives and the agent has opened a website of surveillance information. The Commission agrees that the agent is well prepared, but according to the bill, the agent's supervision will also extend to the agencies and homes of private citizens who are deprived of their freedoms. There were some factors to consider in the treatment of the committee. Her meetings specifically discussed the access of the agent's records, but an agent noted that with the development of the OPC, the agent's surveillance will further test the survival and treatment of those who are free of charge for police decisions, including arrest, investigation of the criminal system, and after individuals have been ruled into custody and other protective measures as well as in prison or other appropriate measures. If an agent believes that although such cases occur only in exceptional circumstances, it is necessary for him to be able to supervise, he has the legal authority to access data in such cases. In the treatment of the Committee it was stated that such follow-up is entrusted to a district attorney who is to be monitored for the treatment and investigation of criminal cases, and that those in favour of a crime may be consulted with the district attorney, as well as for the decision to provide supplies or other legal instruments. It was reported that the district attorney's surveillance is more important after the district attorney began his work and that the facilities for monitoring are more than ever. Then it was specifically warned that there may be an impact on study treatment and that there will be resistance to the prosecution's independence. At the same time, it was suggested that an agent is not able to give his opinion in the middle of a study. The Commission agrees with these views and therefore does not suggest changes in the bill in this case, but it seems necessary that the Ministry of Justice is working with an agent to see how it is best to monitor such matters. The committee also discussed regulations from Article 7. the bill, which is proposed to require protection from those in the interests of the public interest, and to provide information on these matters in violations of law, careful administrative procedures, regulations, or procedures. On the basis of Article 5. he may take a case of his own initiative on the basis of any evidence he has received. An article with the bill says that the source of the agent's authority is not to be equal to a deposé and that it does not involve protection from the agent. There are no laws in the current law that enable an agent to fulfill the desire of the one turning to him for anonymousness. The Commission therefore feels that such measures are necessary in the laws of the General Agent, not only because of the requirements presented in the book on the protection of those who, in good faith, detect an agent or the International Subcommittee from the information on the activities of the institutions and households, but also because of the importance of such a possibility, if the citizens feel that they have to separate an agent from matters that include such a violation of the law. The committee's meetings discussed whether it was sufficiently clear that any anonymous request could be made on this basis. Two. 7. it is suggested that anyone wishing to separate an agent from the offense should state if he wishes to be protected according to the legal code. The committee stated that the agent is expected to guide those who intend to provide information or data on this basis as to the conditions where they can have anonymous names. The Commission makes this point under the viewpoint shown in a paper with the bill that an agent assesses the importance of information for his observations and helps identify those involved. By doing so, we will be less inclined to misuse our resources. In his review of personality protection, a set of laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information did not include the implementation of personal information from the Universal Agent, such as 5 mgr. Section 4. The law. As a result, Persian protection has failed to monitor the processing of personal information there. It was noted at the meeting of the Committee that Peritoneal Protection is desirable that the Supreme Agent of the Council should make appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure adequate personal safety with regard to the latest technologies, costs for performance, character, extent, context and purpose of processing and risk, different and different degrees, for the rights and freedom of individuals. The Commission discussed whether there was a basis for adding the above to the bill, and it concluded that it would be carried out under the World Commission's Commission to follow up the rules of the work and practices of the General Assembly agent, with regard to the development of technological changes and Persian protection. I've studied the Committee's opinion and suggested that the bill be accepted unchanged. Under the heading all committees write, i.e. The one that stands here, but also the one who hasn't. The members of Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Brabbur Níelsson's Steindór, Valdimarsson Páldor Valmarsson, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kárason, Þorsteinn the son of Sæmundsson, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eliil. Have I now completed an announcement to this committee party?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. Helga Vala Helgadóttir. I came up first and foremost to express my joy that the thing about this is that hopefully it smells good. This is a very important matter, that we can make sure that people who are deprived of their freedom, of course, are very serious because of public authority, are being monitored for the well - being of them. Of course, we have in history an example of how it has not always been, and how good it has been to get in this way and, of course, is an agent well qualified, as a good report has been prepared, to take on such control. I would also especially like to rejoice that there is a general law that does not directly or merely touch this, i.e. So-called OPCAT surveillance of informants and their protection, which is important. What I would like to say is that this kind of law would likely have to be more common, general legislation on this subject, and it may be the preferred thing to do. But what I really wanted to ask or that is what I really wanted to think about. An authority in particular is the position of those who share information with a government accountant, whether it would be a small issue for the committee to consider changing to those who draw attention to a government accountant on the past. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is very much concerned with this question, which is well and well needed. As far as I know, the Ministry of Presidency is in the process of some sort of conference, the bill, the very protection of the informants, which I think is a full reason for us at the Council to proceed well because we need to try to encourage those who have important information in the public interest of public interest to provide such information, whether the information has something to do with the sake of the criminal nature, or if the information has something to do with the state business, such as then. A senator came on, which would be the information that would be transmitted to a government accountant. The information may contain a wide range of laws, either financial or otherwise, but also many things that are reprehensible. But this is individuals, i.e. In this bill, which has a sense of freedom, either in prisons or in outright harmony and in closed divisions and such. I think there is good reason to believe and to wait for truth to be excited about the bill I understand to be in progress at the Ministry of Presidency, because the present time is somehow the need for information to appear without the identity of the analyst being in trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for the answer, in effect, agrees with what was presented in her case. I think it's very important that these cases are all right, and I think it's also true, and it's interesting to see when a bill's going on in general. But I think it's very important for the council to make sure of the members of the council, who, on the other hand, are in charge of the Council and the State Reunion, are not afraid to approach the institutions and provide information. Often this is true, and as is true in many areas, people are very often learning information through their jobs, so the work of a person can be in danger if he does not have this protection. But I don't have a question, I think it's a worthwhile subject, but again, I'm very pleased with this law bill that concerns the informants.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u40	Mr. President. Yeah, thanks, I'm coming up, even though I haven't really got a direct question from what. A senator, simply to discuss the protection of informants. As far as I know, some kind of special rules have been developed around the collapse of the bank, about those who may not have been direct informants, but who had information about, for example. Inherent business ventures, or in some other business relationship, all in the bank crash. Then the decision was made to try to get people to report information more than that. It may not have been exactly this protection of the informants, but it is similar to what we are discussing. But I agree with what was said at the moment. A member of this body of information today needs to have some kind of protection regulations for those who want to report illegalities, whether by government or private law, that I think is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u41	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the National Fund. Behind the National Fund, the thought is that a good year and a good condition should be used in the national economy to show forethought and responsibility in government affairs, thus providing for the future. A clear resolve to set up the National Fund is stated in the Government Treaty signed a year ago, but the bill of the material presented here at the General Assembly. But in February 2017, I appointed a team of experts, who, according to a letter, were assigned to write a draft to legalize what was then called a stable fund. The team concluded that in the summer of 2018, which continued to be involved in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and the bill I have now given to the Council is the result of that work. In the expert group's letter, they even said: that, within a few years, there could be a considerable increase in energy capital resources for government custody, especially for the greater financial strength and abdicating of land activation's capitals. The aim of the fund would have to build resistance to cope with financial events without resulting in debt or economic instability. First, it would be to develop national savings by accepting and doing business with the financial assets of the estate laid down in accordance with the legal requirements. The funding of the fund would be in order to make provision for the State's financial gain from energy resources. The primary provision from the fund would have to be at the mercy of Generalis's approval. The specialist group examined the meaning of the fund and sought out more information. In many lands, the operaters of so - called multiracial funds, which possess the English language, are under the title "Soverhold Funds, " and the international organization of such funds has been active for years. In 2008, by means of the International Cash Fund, there were general guidelines on the global treasure, called Santiago-side rules. It provides a clear, legal, and administrative basis for all aspects of such funds, clear goals, independence, responsibilities, healthy growth policies, and transparency. The rules were considered when the bill was written. estament funds are money funds, which are owned by the state and run for a purpose. It is commonly based on incomes of raw export, often of nonrenewable raw products, such as oil, copper, diamonds, and such. Iceland is in part different from the countries that have established such a treasure. Unlike other places, e.g. Here on land, at the hands of a powerful system of pensions. In fact, this system has had some cumulative problems with the inexpensive debt of Pension bonds, which were addressed to the A Department by agreement of state and rural unions with relevant trade unions and subsequent legalization in 2017. In terms of B-REL, it is estimated that the financial debt of the department with the direct responsibility of the state has been about 620 billion. at the end of 2017. From 2017 onward, prenuptial fees of 5 billion have been available. It is now increasing to 7 billion annually since 2018 according to a newly released budget and financial program for 2019-2023. Thus, we have an effective plan to deal with the problems that will work if there is no compromise. On account of the State Department's Pension Fund, financial bills have been made in the department for a long time. They've found that if premeditated funds remain stable for about 30 years after 2019, the department will never fail. She can then make a deposit in her pension bonds until they are supplied around 2060 C.E. With these measures, Iceland will soon become one of the few countries around the world with a reliable plan for a nearly complete and coordinated pension system for the entire population. As I've traced here, there are a somewhat different circumstances in Iceland than in many other places, we build, e.g. not our export to raw materials in a comparable way to many other countries that have developed funds for such reasons. Norwegians actually turn their oil into a fund. This they do in the way that the oil reserve has reflected, which has actually become a new name today. Others have had to deal with a high degree of fluctuations in their economy because they have a very uniform foreign exchange that can take turns and to the point that humans have established a stability fund, but there are other circumstances in this country. This bill suggests the establishment of a war fund called National Fund. The sea is designed to play a primary role in being a nation's shock - defense, when government funds are exposed to financial contributions in connection with major unsurpassed economic events, either because of failure or because of the costs of action that the government has considered inevitable to resort to following a shock or to protect it. This refers to problems of few ages, but history shows that they can ride over every few decades, including major natural disasters, which could be heavily affected by areas such as pollution or environmental accidents, change of ecosystems, disease, or other consequences that could cause economic damage beyond other forms of security, such as Iceland's natural disaster insurance. For example, there have been natural disasters, such as the Thomson fires and the Moriscos, or the Home eruption, ecosystems failure, such as the collapse of the silen population, or human epidemics such as Spanish flu. It could also be an event or situation of a completely different nature, such as the result of a massive network attack on an important infrastructure, terrorism, or a series of other injuries that are now completely unknown and cannot be predicted. The key point is that we are here dealing with larger traumas as a government fund would not at all make the financial strength needed to attend without causing significant consistent effects on the well - being of the citizens because of public dysfunction or resulting in a burden of debt that would be extremely restrictive or difficult for a long time. Unpredictability and uncertainty in the magnitude of such dramatic incidents means that it is almost impossible for governments to prepare for the consequences of their normal budget and budgets for long periods of time, in a way other than to plan ahead of appropriate collections, as well as to always run state funds on reliable and sustainable foundations. This bill is aimed at creating a clear framework for a significant purpose for the development of funds that will be available under a special plagion treatment in the event of major traumas. The work programme of such a precaution is aimed at supporting directly at the baseline policies set out in Article 6. Public financial legislation, i.e. Sustainableness, caution, stability, firmness and transparency. The fund's contribution in the bill does not mean that the fund itself directly finances compensations for e.g. damage to certain sectoral or community groups, rather, if available in support of the government fund because of certain valued costs they will be exposed to because of such events. It is thus assumed that any response measures will be in the hands of the established State by the social ruling system and are intended to deal with such events, i.e. By means of the Management Board and by Generals, including financial coverage. Although natural disasters are rare, history teaches us that considerable natural disasters can occur here and that there will be little in the future. Already the country's important tools have already been developed and it is mandatory that Iceland's natural disaster insurance is the whole of houses and cash that is flammable by an insurance company. In addition, natural disasters guarantee heat supply, water supply, sewage, seafront construction, and other constructions. Under those guarantees, foreign insurance is a thing of reimbursement. Outside of the insurance, however, major means of transportation, such as the main component of the road system, fall. In this case there may be significant damage to the secondary effects of disasters, which natural disasters do not cover. National funds enable governments to cope with the consequences of a loss that does not depend on natural disaster insurance so that government funds avoid excessive debt to the end. This allows the fund to provide room for governments to take on other appropriate measures that may be necessary to cope with major traumas. Official financial law estimates that funding is always being given as a reserve student at least 1% of total resources. That now amounts to about 8.5 billion dollars. This budget is designed mainly to address any variation to the salary and prices proposals of the budget and some intervening unscheduled budgets. Thus, this annual budget can usually be used only to a very limited degree and only for the external traumas that were not considered to be significant. Clearly, then, special financial equipment for dealing with major disasters other than natural disasters, e.g. A dramatic environmental accident on fishing grounds or in epidemics is not available on a significant scale in this country. The purpose of legislation on the establishment of a precautionary fund is also to be expected that in the coming years government funds will be able to produce substantial new revenues or resource uses from energy sources for the use of energy sources on government custody, particularly from land induction, for the first time. Here, though, it should be noted that there are some factors that can affect the income of this kind, such as changes in energy farming, loss of international energy markets, and changes in technology. Thus, in the long run, there is no guarantee of them. It is reasonable to note that this new income will not be used like any other source of income in order to meet regular national expenses. It is assumed that in the near future, the government's tenures and interest policies against government energy agriculture, which include the increased income of the State's budget of their use of energy resources, particularly from Land induction. It is considered that money policy is in place before the company's decision to make money to the owners of the next spring. Because these decisions are not available at this stage, there is some uncertainty about the sum of new incomes that are being made, but in the public field, there have been a total of about 10 to 20 billion dollars. every year. The bill is temporary, considering the annual increase in the budget of the state's income by 10 billion dollars. to the minimum of this and to the extent that such a contribution is normally given to the national fund. Many may ask, " Would it not be closer for a fund to focus first on the debt of state funds or pension bonds? ' It should be noted that next year's State Fund is under the payment of government laws on public finances. The weight of loans is becoming comparable to that of banks falling. Otherwise, the possibility of state funds for further subsidies will be limited, as debt approaches the minimum debt payment required to maintain an active bond market. It is not claimed here that we have reached the minimum, but we are approaching it. Here we can also bear in mind that in the years to come, the State has possessions that might be considered to sell. In particular, the topic on financial assets has been discussed, which may be considered as wanting to pay more than that. As I've only briefly traced them, we've created the prospect for us that, before long, Iceland will be among the few countries around the world who have a very secure budget for the full, and a coordinated pension system for the entire population. It is in this unique situation that the establishment of the National Fund is proposed here. Thus, it has been observed that, beyond looking to debt or after experiences in pension bonds, the improvement in the state's status should be used because of the expectation of growing incomes to reduce taxes rather than to use for collections. Taxifications in Iceland are certainly relatively high in international comparison, but if people want to emphasize a reduction in taxes, there will be room for that, regardless of national funds, especially if they are able to increase production here, both in the private sector and in the public sector, and further emphasis on the better use of public funds. Then, of course, it is also not to be viewed as a certainty that there is no permanent increase in the income of long - term energy companies, nor as a result, would it be preferable to use them as traditional revenues to cover the increase in government spending, permanent, or as a basis for paying taxes, as well as obviously financial support to cope with major losses if this were gone. Finally, the establishment of the National Fund is not intended to establish an arrangement that contributes to economic stability for a shorter or intermediate period of time by achieving a compliant response to regular or temporary economic swings. I think this should be said because of what I could at first, that for a time was referred to as a sort of stability fund that may have given reason to believe that this is the purpose. Such measures should not be needed, which would take some place in place of government arrangements by means of public financial policies and financial policies, under the arrangement established by the law on public finances and on the Council of Iceland. Only about the arrangement of the National Fund. The bill assumes that the fund's budget will be essentially made to receive contributions from the state funds that responds to the income of the next year's income and rent pay from energy companies. The fund then invested money in foreign stocks according to investment policy established by its government by the Minister's approval. Remuneration will be provided under budgets in the light of the income, but it is not necessary to discuss the so - called markets of state income. Then all the income and profits of the fund will turn to him. The funds of the fund are expected in a five - year financial program for government and financial law. In the event of an unforeseen shock of the above, and that the Commission's pre-filled conditions and assessments of the financial impact of the crisis, a minister may suggest that the General agree to the Congress resolution that the government of the National Fund will make a contribution to the state fund, taking up to half of the property of the fund for one event, up to half of it. Sources of such contributions and other financial contributions will also be provided through the Generals. In this arrangement, a donation from the National Fund is expected to pay for the evaluation of the extent of damage to a government fund and that a government fund may therefore have to finance the cost temporarily. The National Fund will be owned by the Icelandic State and will be transferred to the financial balance of the state's funds, and it will, in fact, be an arrangement for controlling and producing on a limited portion of the money fund's funds. The State's financial status improves the size of the fund. The bill assumes that a special government will be placed over the fund, which will take control of it. It is suggested that the government be organized to five financial experts and the Allied Parliament appoint three of them, prime minister one and economic minister ship the fifth executive who will be chairman of the board without a form of appointment. The board is responsible for the management of the fund, and they set up protocols, and they make proposals for his investment policy to be accepted by a minister on the basis of legal guidelines. It is expected that during the financial policy of the fund, financial initiatives published by companies or institutions involved in activities that can be considered to be good manners, such as the introduction of child labour and production and the sale of new weapons in warfare, for example. The fund's management will then be designed to negotiate with professionals with appropriate expertise in the financial market for daily investments. By means of this arrangement, you will also be able to make sure that the length of your arms, such as that a minister does not have authority over control by making decisions and not being involved in some investments. This also ensures that a minister can fulfill his responsibility for the administration by law and in accordance with responsible administration and recognizable investment policies. It is assumed that the daily budget will be moderate in size, especially at the beginning, and that the funds pay from the fund or from its own funds. In itself, there should not be a need for visualizing a large business, even if the size of the fund grows over time, where it is assumed that the management of the fund is a professional for the daily investment. In general, it must be discussed with the management and other costs of the management and the administrative sector to the head of property which is expected to be negotiated in terms of the stock market and the fund management. In accordance with the government's administration contract, it is also stated in the provisional terms in the bill that annual donations in the national funds will be temporarily lower than the financial income, where part of which will be spent for the effort in the construction of nurses and on the other hand, for the advancement of the newest forms of industry. In other words, it will not be a national fund that is involved in financing these projects. Rather, it will be part of the budget that the additional payment provides for the State Fund new for this purpose. As a result, they received lower donations, making it a little slower to begin with. Here we can note that in the bill it is assumed that special decisions will be made regarding the individual donations that the Council decides to set aside for the fund. For property sales or for reasons to store other property funds by means of this fund, there is nothing that buys them to be set aside, as the bill further deals with it. Or you might say that the fund at a convention would build faster than the main criteria of the bill. Here it is reasonable to ask, " What is the proper amount of boiling like this?'But the goal must be that the fund will be large enough so that it does not have to be used all at once. Given this and that only half of the funds will be allowed at each time, it is reasonable to plan for a future fund to be about 250,300 billion, or nearly ten percent of land production. It is estimated that considering the conditions I have been considering making money here, it can take about 15-520 years to build such a fund, considering that income from income or rent from energy companies can grow for a long time and that if it is not necessary to improve financial costs from the fund during that period. In this regard, the Norwegian examples of which the political parties have stuck together to build up the oil Fund without going through it to meet the needs of the government until now, after 20 years, when its size is about $1 trillion. Amazing amount of money, but I think it's right that the fund has about 1% of the shares in the world. It will be in the power of the General Assembly in the future to determine when the national funds will be so large that income which is designed for them will be better fixed by changing the fund and by the nature of the situation that the times can change, and as I've traced here, it is not excluded that at some point a person will make a decision to set aside special funds for the fund, which will change all the time that I've traced here. V.E.G. President. National funds are thought of as a form of shock protection for the nation, when government funds are exposed to major unsurpassed financial contributions. I've traced it here that it could be a failure, or due to what the government feels is inevitable. This could be the result of a shock or the avoidance of a major shock. We are familiar with examples of events that have brought economic difficulties into the past, including those of the United States. By natural disasters, but in a changed world, some other threats cannot be ruled out, which include: has to do with a technologically advanced world. I've made it possible that there could be Internet attacks that could cause great damage, serious environmental disaster and, of course, other things that you can't provide, but the main thing is that we are creating protection because of a major economic impact by putting aside the risk. The funds, as I have traced, will be spent solely on foreign investments. The financial risk of the population is to be distributed and protected, since the fund has a direct impact on individual domestic sectors of business. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to say that the National Fund bill is discussed at the General Assembly on the 100th anniversary of Iceland's Commonwealth and directly following the restoration of the economy after one of the biggest economics that Iceland and I have had to deal with. The foundation of the fund reflects discipline in the management of government funds and is a sign of changing and better times. The self - control of public funds is strengthened. It has fallen to increase confidence in the Icelandic economy and the national economy in general, and thus it can increase the credit rates of the country. All these factors are ultimately beneficial for all of us for future generations and for the welfare of the nation in a broad context. A respectable president. Other than that, I'd like to refer to a closer discussion of the National Fund's budget. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u42	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the review of this important and sensible matter. I have two short requests to the highest level. Minister. First, where does he see the money being saved? Then there's 8 p.m. It was about not investing in financial interests, which are published by companies or institutions who practice or are involved in activities that conflict with good manners. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister: Who values it? What are good manners?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u43	A respectable president. It is thought that the fund is in the hands of a special independent government, that it operates in an investment policy that the board suggests, and that the minister confirms. It is assumed that all of his investments will be in a foreign position and that a contract will be made with special parties to care for his daily investments. So when asked where the fund is saved, it is saved from the management board, which will then appoint professionals to care for the daily business and that its property will thus be in foreign currency in foreign stock markets. Regarding good manners, I took a brief look at my point that this is mainly a reference to keeping people safe from investments in a work that is incompatible with common values in Iceland, i.e. For example, the work of child labor is based on child labor.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Thus, it is in this way that investment policies such as investing in stocks around the world, such as the Norwegian oil fund, may be difficult to invest in companies that have a clean slate because they can go behind these things in various ways, as we know. That's why Iceland's reputation is very important that we don't invest in weapons companies, we're an unarmed nation, and a nation without weapons production, which is a tremendously good reputation in the society of the nations. I want to take this opportunity to say very briefly that I feel that there is a slight weakness in this that doesn't reveal who controls the board, if the government is at its height. A minister could only enter it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u45	A respectable president. In a way, we could do some research on what is to be avoided in a large world regarding investments. I think we're right next to what's going on. Because of the complexity of the business world, a senator may find it easy to make mistakes in this regard. I still think we can agree on this primary objective as to at least one person's checking. To be content in such investments and to follow this course, and to follow through on it, including in contracts with those who take part in day - to - day investments. As for the surveillance thing, I can see that the board is reporting on what's going on. There is no reason except that there is full transparency, and it is official, and after the events, the council can call for details.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u46	President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The secretary of finance for a detailed review of this big case. I'd like to stop at the control of the fund. It is now obvious that if you are successful, but there is no reason to believe otherwise, this vast sum will soon become as the government is responsible. So I wondered, " What are the terms of those who choose to be responsible or to rule? ' It speaks of being able to provide proper oversight, as it is said, and particularly to take in knowledge of financial markets and economics. I would have considered it wise to have more demands in the law, at least no less than financial companies in general, and to think preferably about a relationship whether there was no reason to harden there, e.g. by taking up rules that have good reputation. There is a well - known concept in the financial world, and there are detailed guidelines for what it means, including, what it means. It's European rules that our SEC is supporting. So I think there's a reason for that at least making room for a person who does not have a job or who does not have full confidence in it. [[The president calls.]] National funds are the means by which everyone must trust him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u47	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator's concern is that the government is well organized. Here it is possible to address the perspective on how much of the law must be accurately written which conditions must be met in order to sit in the government or to be considered in the selection of government officials. However, it is not to be forgotten that we are discussing here that there will actually be three parties who have the right to appoint you, i.e. Prime Minister, Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs and then Congress with three executives. I'm going to say that they should be aware of these views and the importance of those who are selected for the job that have no dramatic reputation or that they have neither experience nor talent nor in any other way likely to be able to do the job. But I think it's a point that's a good thing to talk about during Congress treatment, and I don't make any comments about it if there's one of the majority reviews that this could be written out further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u48	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Another thing I'd like to mention is the provisional principle. This is a guarantee fund for possible tragedy and shocks, usually unexpected. That's where they're taking sides, and it's like the highest level. A minister mentioned, it actually goes, not directly into the National Fund, but to certain projects, which are certainly urgent, I'm not bringing them down, not at all, but you may have thought that financial and financial policies and financial laws should deal with them. Indeed, they are not all manner of traumas. I think it is proper to have in mind the temptation that occurs when the boil grows into a fish's spine, that people go to it for good works that may be of various kinds. [[The president calls.]] Then I wondered, " Is it not unfortunate to set some kind of example when the fund begins? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u49	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. The importance of broad solidarity is spoken of by a senator. It is clear that this is a general law based on the majority will of the council, and I have always seen that it was extremely important that there was a broad solid solidarity that would lead to elections and majority of Generals every time about the basics, including... that men would not succumb to temptation to grab hold of the fund in order to carry out certain tasks. However, we are now at a critical milestone. We are in a great struggle to change the rhythm of nursing homes, for example. Getting a new apartment arrangement, where many of them were once in their apartments. This calls for enormous investments. Similarly, for the first time, we are about to see large profits begin out of the country's operations. [[The president calls.]] We are beginning to reap for the first time, and the question is, Do we want to take the first harvest and sow for the long future by focusing on innovation? [[The president calls.]] That's the basic thought behind temporary decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u50	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the review of the bill that we're discussing on the National Fund and his organization. I have to admit that I'm concerned that in the ideas about national funds such as they are displayed in the bill, there is too much emphasis on how natural disasters are reacting when the original ideas of the National Fund became a matter of building resistance to financial events and perhaps, in particular, that we already have a surface fund that has the authority to contribute to the cost of hazard assessment by volcanic eruptions, rains, and ocean flood, and then the natural disaster of Iceland. I wondered about the original emphasis that was set out in 2017 whether and why some kind of natural crisis fund has been disfellowshipped. Would it not be more appropriate for us to establish a national fund to put more emphasis on innovation and green investment and perhaps some kind of future investments? I'd like to hear an opinion of the highest order. It belongs to a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u51	A respectable president. First of all, we may have to face the challenges we face. They can truly be due to natural disasters, and I've traced to my case that not all are guaranteed by Iceland's natural disaster insurance, primary stock, road system, e.g., all the secondary consequences of the host's commitment to Iceland's natural disaster insurance ablaze or paralysed, it can become an enormously secondary damage to which the state's funds would enter, but there is no way in which the crisis would be isolated from what happens in nature. There may be other traumas, to form as if I've been tracking Internet attacks on the infrastructure of technology and the like. It can be man - made. The key point is that we're talking about some major event that is not fair enough to expect a government fund to respond without leading either to a substantially inferior lifestyle - we're talking about major surgery that would have to be taken to respond - or to a huge debt supply that would mean wondering the events into the future in the future generation. So this is not bound to the fact that something is happening in nature or that it is caused by fire metabolism or such. Rather, it is major. In terms of investment policy, it is suggested here that the fund may be large enough to make an unfortunate investment within the country. The main point of land induction is from most of Iceland's foreign sources, and I've traced it well in the report, why we think it's advisable to invest outside the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u52	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Even though my investments may be tied to foreign investments, I still feel that the emphasis on future investments and green investments could be highlighted in the bill. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on income into the fund. I wondered, " Is it better to make the nation's income more varied? ' V.E.G. A minister has been talking about money from land induction, so I wonder if it would be more reasonable to make income come from a greater scale than from the energy companies and energy companies, to make up property sales, etc., if it could be, for example, making a variety of revenues for the fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u53	A respectable president. I'm sure they're discussing investment policy. We put it in the hands of the fund to suggest investment policy, but I think that the main thing is that we achieve a natural product of growth and that we can easily earn good fruitage by focusing on certain sectors, as the senator points out. For another source of income, it has to be said that, as the reason why this case is happening, is the turning point in land induction in which we look to it over the next few years that we can make money for the State of God's people to up to 10 to 20 billion each year. That's the main reason why we take this step now, without you paying anything for other types of income, e.g. from renting energy resources, which also enter there, according to another special decision made by the council. [[The president calls.]] It is also assumed that the council can make a decision, e.g. The value of government sales for the fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u54	Mr. President. Thank you for your excellent conversation, and thank you very much. Minister. There are some things I didn't come up with an answer that I just want to come in on. First of all, I believe this is a very good business and an important fund. Especially do I rejoice that he is founded on the 100th anniversary of the sovereignty. It's fitting, like the highest. Minister mentioned. This fund will contain substantial amounts of money, that is pretty clear, and it is therefore very important to succeed with its establishment and with all its activities. I want to come in here for a second. the bill that discusses the management of the fund and appropriate conditions. Actually, there was a why. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Valdímsson's in answer to that earlier. Determination criteria must be above any doubt at all. Therefore, it is very important to learn how these five rulers are and to be selected and who is the one who chooses them. It says that three members of the Council are designated, and then we need to know about it. It is hoped, then, that within the committee, we will discuss how the Council selects these three directors. Thereafter, the prime minister will select one representative and economic and financial minister appoint a chairman. It is essential that members of the Committee discuss how these important individuals who will be in charge of this important fund will be selected. Article 7 discusses a committee of the Committee of Assessments, but it does not lie to these factors. I think it's a slight weakness that this important factor is not clearly clear enough. Then there is another; who should appreciate the suitability of these rulers? Presumably, some recruitment process will begin in these substances, I presume. I cut it, I've at least cut it. not yet found, that there is no mention of whether a ruler must be an Icelandic citizen. It would be nice to know. The report then states with the bill on Article 3. that the government is expected to be a well - founded expert. Then you ask yourself: " Who is the one who values the individual's trust? The outcome of this need to be clear. Besides, I came into it earlier in answer to the highest. A minister did not reveal who should be in charge. I think there's a need for it to be there and there's something I don't feel like. Then, the highest. Minister to report to the board, expected, but I could not see that the government was required to report to the Generals. There's something to discuss with my judgment. The report shows that the management board will supervise business and investments and will negotiate with qualified bodies for financial management, business, and investments, such as the highest level. The minister came in. There is no mention of the moral value of investment policy in any other way than that of Article 8. and I previously explained that there should not be investing in financial gains, which are published by companies or institutions who practice or are involved in activities that conflict with good manners. I'm about to explain more because it's a difficult job and it came to the highest level. Minister's also on the inside. It has to be my decision to be some kind of procedure in this regard, it simply cannot be economist among the executives of what constitutes good manners. And then, at the top of the day, I remember. Minister of the Norwegian oil fund, which I believe is something else's name today, which is now another story. He invests outside the Norwegian economy. It is important to me that our national funds do not invest within the country and if I understand it correctly in the history of the highest. A minister would not invest within the country. However, in the contrary, the minister said that this was unfortunate and not advisable. I think it has to be clear because it can have a lot of effect if the fund starts investing in this country if it's grown, and, of course, it can not be invested in any kind of vaccination. So it's important to me that the fund invests in foreign lands. Of course, all of this is a very difficult work. We know of examples that, for example The Norwegian oil reserve has lost billions of dollars in one day, and in fact it has also benefited by the billions in a few days. But it shows how difficult this is and the importance of the success of all of this so that this importance will be a country and a nation worthy of honor. I'm celebrating this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u55	Mr. President. The bill we discuss on the National Fund is in such a way that it takes careful action. I think that almost all political groups in one way or another have proposed some kind of concept to a national fund, so presumably there will be an excellent agreement for the fund's establishment. Yet, it is proper to kill only 1st. for gains and blemishes, because nothing is perfect. The question is, do the benefits overcome the faults? You can, for example. Ask yourself, " Do I not agree that instead of creating a national fund in the way suggested here, I am simply going to pay my profits, the profit of power companies paying, directly to the homes, that, in fact, each Iceland receives a direct share in making money? ' This is especially true if we assume that the use of the resources is responsible and sustainable. We can also wonder if we will make use of money to live up to the welfare system and finance the inner welfare system. We can imagine that money from the companies'companies will be used to reduce the budget for companies and the public. This is a sobering thought when we consider that the tax burden in Iceland, especially if we take account of the plagiarism in a pension fund, is the largest thing known in OECD. I got tired of it, Mr. President, calling attention to a greater tax burden in this country than in the world's most competitive countries are reducing our competitiveness, inhibiting innovation, reducing investments, and generally adversely affecting the future standard of living. Now, one of our economic strengths is the size of the biofuel treasure system that is proportionate to the world's second largest, approx. 156% of land production, and when compared, it is okay to remember that the Norwegian oil reserve as quoted is approximately 250% of Norway's national product. It is safe to assume that the pension funds will grow, grow, and expand in the coming years and decades, especially in view of a large increase in pay paid pay, up to 15.5% of pay. Of course, there are some who claim that this may have been the case so that payoffs are getting too high. Pension funds will have to invest more in foreign lands. Actually, a clean influx into the fund needs more or less to look outside the landstone unchanged. This is especially important in ensuring good property distribution and reducing risks, so we are talking about tens of billions each year. In this regard it is also important to bear in mind, although it is not relevant to this matter, that we here need to consider the potential of the pension fund to be directly involved in the building of social infrastructure, especially by direct access to property. It has been noted that the good status of the pension fund, despite the traumas they have earned, like most of us better off, reduces the need to set up a national fund in a way that is recommended. You can also point out that we still have, such as the highest. Financial and economic secretary withdrew from the unfunded debt of state's Pension to the unfunded debt of Pension, of course, of course. 620 billion dollars, about 24% of national production. Commenting on the National Association of Economic Affairs in consultation with the bill, it is noted that in a financial program for 2019-2023, the figure is that the growth of unfunded pensional bonds will increase from 15.2 billion in 2019 to 21.9 billion in 2023 C.E. In this regard, considering that we are paying interest in the inflatable Pension bonds, the question arises: Is it reasonable to direct potential money from resources, not just money from energy companies, but to wonder whether other resources or resources, or what words we would like to use, should not go to them? - On the other hand, the State's Penitentiary has been severely reduced. There has also been a radical change in the state's debt, and it can be described as a pure revolution. Total debt of the state, except for now, 850 billion, just about 30% of land production, and a state's clean standing on the basis of government law on government finance are about 23%. In fact, I noted the facts some time ago in this talk and rejoiced, for it is clear that we have ceased to pursue the standard of living in the future and the standard of the life of our children. The idea behind the National Fund is nothing in itself similar to the evidence for subsidies. We are going to live in favor of the future, secure the share of succeeding generations in resource use, and have tables for transport. We are going to create a sort of traumatic defense for the nation. We're going to set up a fund that we believe can in 15 years, perhaps even less, become up to 300 billion. It's a good idea to be suggested in the bill, that the fund should have its fruit in foreign stocks. But it is worth calling attention to the fact that we already have a tool to meet unexpected events in the form of Iceland's natural disaster insurance, at least when it comes to natural disasters. While the fund may be there, there are other types of traumas where it can also come up with the document. However, it is important, as Iceland's natural disaster insurance points out in its review of consultations, to make a clear distinction between the role of national funds and Iceland's natural disaster insurance, but the overall payment capacity in a single major event is about 73 billion. Of course, the government has a choice to face unforeseen damage by boiling or to harm them. We need to consider how we're integrating the role of Iceland's Natural Disaster Insurance and, on the other hand, the National Fund, which we hope will not have to come about quite yet, but we have to be ready for everything. So when might the National Fund take over from Iceland's natural disaster insurance, etc.? It can be the result of a major loss of transport activities that Iceland's natural disaster insurance does not come in, but it has to be available, and that is one of the questions the Congress needs to consider. It is also worth calling attention to the review of the Industrial Association, which highlights the fact that the fund's establishment is a clear investment policy and that there must also be a balance between the collection and the international competitiveness of Iceland. It is important to stress that there are at least some concerns. In the business of the government, the state, citizens are making money on energy resources to such an extent that it leads to significant increases in electricity prices and, therefore, reduces the competitiveness of Icelandic companies. This is something that we need to wonder about because electricity prices have been one of the factors that have given us competitive premiums that are of great importance to us, especially in view of our access to foreign markets, there may be less money than in many other countries. The establishment of the National Fund is an exciting task. That, however, is a difficult task. I had certain doubts about the institution of such a fund, especially when people were wondering that it would be wise to have such a fund and to use it in some fluctuary of the economy I warn of, but the ideologies here seem to me to be in most, if not all, reasonable. I warn of the temptation that may lie in the future. It can become powerful and fat, and it will be a moral hazard for future politicians to change the rules, no matter how well we live for the knots, so that the fund can be used for a purpose other than the one laid. That is why it is so important that we develop general understanding and solidarity, not just in the Hall of Congress, but among the people, in a manner that the Norwegians have achieved, i.e. that the National Fund is a real shock prevention and would not be an option among the public that politicians or others who come at work after 10, 20, 15 years abuse that fund for political purposes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u56	A respectable president. We're talking about a bill to legalize the National Fund, which I think is very important. I kind of like to agree with it. A senator concluded that I believe that exactly that this fund will never be for political use, as it were. I'd like a moment to review from the old days. Gangera, of 1870, notes a brief brief summary of the reduced leftoverity of the disasters that happen at regular intervals in the nation, basically since land was built. It says about 1783, with the permission of a president: Then, in mid - June, fires burst out of the Tartar River, so great that it flowed out like currents and destroyed 23 towns; there was a crack in size and earthquakes; but fire and sandy bars were so great that sulphur smoke spread over most of the land; the sun appeared for a very long day of blood, and opt was so quick that a town was hardly seen between them. The money got skinny from the summer, yellow on the feet and the grass, because the grass became yellow with sulfur. Mountains and other food plants were destroyed, the forest was destroyed, and didn't come up empty; for the branches were teemed in the hands to the middle. In the summer, hay became the poorest, yet worse; most cut one third to one half of their money; in the fall of the winter in the early fall, in labor and on the surface, Shortly thereafter, when the condition of the country is declared during the winter of 1784, the president's permission states: ▪ The lack of food was so great that everything was put on the mouth as a tooth, such as the skinny of horses, horns, and shoes, and even dogs; so the number of people escapes from hunger, cannery, and other poor health, which led to the famine. This is how this disaster talk continues. Icelandic society would not and hopefully will never face such hope again today, but we need to realize that the forces of nature that we live in can destroy enormous value in a short period of time. From time to time, we hear too regularly reports that the others and these volcanoes are preparing for a eruption. For over a year, Kate, Bald Bear, the Gulf of Grima, and Microchill have been hatching. This is what has occurred in the 20th century in the New World Translation. The filter disappeared, the eruption in Home Island, the Spanish flu, and there will be future traumas. However, it may be enjoyable in all of this that we have a well - funded pension system, much more and more a common pension system, that few nations can boast. We are also making big contributions in the coming years. We're building a new hospital, we're building a lot of roads, and of course we could stay for a long time. We're also combing into the B-section of Penitentiary, which means the League won't fail. But it is so, as the bill shows, that the unforeseeable and uncertainty of the size of such a massive crash is that it is almost impossible for governments to prepare for such consequences in financial preparation, i.e. This traditional budget, or government budget, or a general budget for the long term, in ways other than the one we're off to, to stand for such a collection. By permission of the president, the bill says that it would be wise to conclude that this new income will not be used like any other income to meet the regular national expenditures to be used. - Maybe it's the word I started here and then. A senator before me ended up. Instead, they will be protected to build financial resources in the National Fund to cope with the unforeseen events and contribute to the nation's economic security for the future. The same evidence is not entirely true of other government incomes of resource use, such as marine crops, where they already run into government funds and cover regular expenses. I believe that with the bill, we are truly making the best way for the future. This bill helps prepare us for the future. I think we owe simply children and grandchildren that when the next major shock comes, whether by human or natural disasters, we have to be prepared and we'll be ready if the bill goes on, because it's just as sure as the sky is blue at some point, as I said before, whether it happens in the next 15 years or 30 years or 100 years, we'll be in some sort of shock. We know this story, like I traced earlier. It can also become a financial crisis, as we probably remember most of the people left 10 years ago when we were starting a partnership with the World Bank after the collapse. It would have been nice to have such a treasure, as it is assumed here. Then perhaps there would have been some things that did not really happen. I think this case is very good, and if the foundation stands, then by 20 years it will have been collected into this fund. It is a tenth of today's national product, and if we allow ourselves to increase, on average, by 2% in these years, this could occur around 5 to 66% of the land production in 2038. However, it is time to determine what a suitable proportion is in this situation. The main thing is to get started and arrange for a parapolitic kingdom to let this fund be but necessary. In terms of the opinion that the fund needs to be collected over a long period of time so that it does not have an effect on the currency market, I think that there is a valid view. It's all right about this in the bill's report, but certainly I think the committee should review in what way this is going to be done, i.e. whether foreign income goes directly into the foreign bank accounts of the state's funds and therefore does not pass through the currency equation. Clearly, if we are to succeed in the growth of the new investments of pensions in foreign investments, as we have considered most desirable, we must have plenty of currency. Happily, this year's business balance is positive, as is the last year and the foreign status of the nation's population at 13%. It's a pleasure that Iceland has become a lender rather than a credit card, just as it has been in recent decades. But it also shows, as in the bill, that other methods can be taken if you want to leave, for example. growth is thought to be less effective than investing in foreign markets. As mentioned in the bill, we expect us to succeed in reducing the debt status of the government and to reach the minimum effective value in a financial market in the country. It is also well concluded that the indirect debt of the state funds in these unfunded pension bonds to the retirement rights of state workers. It may be considered to use additional revenues from energy companies to meet them. However, the agreement with rural society has also been established. I think it's and it's been good. Here's the reason why the fund was closed and government officials moved to the A League. It is also noted that this methodology has led us to sit with tens of millions of dollars of dollars that have developed in the department's insurance status and, of course, age combination of funds and government funds felt responsible for their commitments. Therefore, this agreement, which went into effect in 2017, is very good. Like I say, I think we're doing fine there. Madam President. I think that the existence of this fund, when it gets to bed, will also be a positive influence on Icelandic employment. Thus, good - looking reserves give stronger support to the credit rating of the state's funds and, of course, we hope that credit rates will pass on to our communities as well. I agree with those who have spoken before that this is a very good thing, but it's both exciting, but it's also tricky. No doubt there will be changes in committee events. I believe it is in the spirit of socialism that in the first few years of the fund, there will be a share of money that should otherwise be spent in the vast work being done in the building of nurses all over the country and that is in behalf of the generation that has provided the basis for our prosperity today. There is, of course, a major matter that will bring about the future, which includes. In innovation and ingenuity, and that is, in my opinion, an inexplicable resource. I said earlier, I assumed that if the economy grew by 2% this year for the next 20 years, it would be about twice as much as it is today. This will likely mean that we have to, with innovation, find and manufacture these valuables. I'm not going to keep my case much further, but I think we're taking steps to benefit ourselves, which is meant to be of great importance to us. Although it is slower to accumulate in the fund than at first, the projects are as urgent as we are faced and we intend to use the resource partly, in the future, I think we should be required - or I am convinced that we have a responsibility to live in the best interests of future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u57	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for his history and excellent review of the case. I think this is a very good thing to discuss and glad we're going to be taking this step, like a couple of sledgehammers. Congress officials have established this turning point in the history of the nation when just 100 years have passed since the national sovereignty of Iceland. We are now aware of this: that by giving more support to society, we will strengthen the capacity we have as a community to deal with the tragedy, but also that, as shown in the provisional guidelines, we will soon build up resources such as a nursing home. Like what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier, it's a great thing to have at the beginning of this fund what we can call a side project, i.e. to provide a certain amount of money in nursing planning, just because the foundation we stand on is built up by the generations that will first use this nursing home. Hence, it is especially glad that this way has gone and this positive, figurative action has been a source of joy in this regard. I wondered if income stocks of the fund could possibly be more than one mentioned in the bill itself. Actually, it came to the highest. A minister into the moment before, of course, that might come into existence, a dealer or something like that, but I wondered, " Am I making money from more energy companies than merely Land activation or income money from more resources could be possible, to form the right to fish farms, and so on? ' If we look at our country as a whole as a resource, that someone wants to buy themselves here to the country to pay to inspect our country is another resource, you can imagine it could be at some point a revenue stream for such a fund. I wondered, " Is there some kind of clearer law or a slightly higher means in the Committee's list at Article 5. ' This may be true. This is shown in the bill's report that it will take 20 years, or it will build the fund, up to $2,250,300 billion. I wondered, " Is there any reason simply to set laws on specific boundaries that could be reached before it could be assigned or used for other projects than those directly related to tragedy? ' Now, let us hope that in the years that follow, tragedy will not lead to the immediate intervention of the fund. Aggressions mentioned in the bill will not necessarily be every 20 to 30 years, but even less frequently, at some point, they might raise questions, such as what is happening in Norway, whether it is time, or when it is wise to take money from the fund. This is what we're going to talk about. The Economic and Business Committee. I also want to touch only what other speakers have established in connection with the financial investment policy of the fund. I believe it's at least It is important to take one turn on the Committee whether it should be some kind of environmental wind at the fund's investment policy. This would be symbolic, considering that the basis for funding the fund is based on the environmental progress of energy, at least That's a big sight. That would be, for example. You may wonder whether you can enter some tokens about your company's manufacturing products or stocks that are invested in them. I view this fund as one of the anchors we have in Icelandic society and become quite important as that. I've mentioned in a talk that the pension system in our country is another very important and large anchor that really matters to us and has done so over the years. I think, in social terms, it is very important to run down heels like this to make sure that we can withstand trauma and react to unexpected events. I'm not gonna have any more of my words. In fact, I'm going to mention the management of the fund, actually, only in the past, that it may have more appeal than there is. I guess there's something that's wrong. A committee will appear. But I'm looking forward to working on this more important work on the Economic and Business Committee, and I'm glad again and again that this case is being presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u58	Madam President. I'm going to add a few words in discussions about national funds and, in fact, accept the words of many woes. Councilmen here have spoken of, especially the role of the National Fund. Of course, it is tempting to create some sort of sparibs in a variety of language groups to collect in times of need, especially in social development or even cultural structure, or innovation, and so on. I'm not going to take charge of it at all, so far from it. So I'd like to mention, like the rest of us. Councilmen have made, however, that there are other resource costs that might be considered, other than energy production in the first place. But my concern, as we have seen, is primarily about natural disasters. There are many kinds of natural disasters that we may need to face. Then I mean of the magnitude that neither the surface fund nor Iceland's natural disaster insurance, either one or both, can be perfectly different. There have been volcanic eruptions and excrements. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir spoke just ahead of me and has nothing to do with it but perhaps in that way so that volcanoes are now building up for some possibly large - scale struggle that we haven't seen for a long time. Of course, this is going to happen in history every few centuries, and it has occurred that this has become a very serious volcanic eruption that has resulted in economic losses of magnitude that we have not seen before. I'm not going to do that to many people, but I'm also going to point out the earthquake that can take place in two areas, on the Southland and on the other side of the North East, even in the northeastern country. That's when I'm talking about the magnitude of 6.5 tremors, which is something we haven't seen - yes, 6.5 in the Southland earthquake last time. The habit is that they are at peace for a long time, but history teaches us that there will be ambiguity levels above 7 in both areas. I'm also going to add to the potential for increasing the incidences of major torrential and major storms that could occur in Iceland by causing damage to coastal areas, which we've not been taking for a long time, but it's likely that climate change could increase. We are talking about natural dangers or traumas that come every decades or centuries from different causes, so if we look to the next few decades, we may have to make up for that in our community. According to that, there are also economic events of various ways that may be unexpected. Not many people expected the big crash to happen, although I'm not making the shoes around the corner so far away, at least. A joyful and visible start in the construction of the National Fund, the first cast I've wanted to emphasize by coming in a pan, as a reserve of natural disasters, but later it can be used for other challenges when it has grown properly a fish about the spine. I want to finish my speech by encouraging some kind of goal to be set on the amount of money to be paid before we start to think of things other than the trauma. As the land now lies, and as a government fund is excited about reforms in infrastructure and so many other things, and because others are no bigger than they are, it is urgent to remember exactly and to look to the extent to which we should go to use money from this fund for anything other than protection against nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u59	V.E.G. President. We are discussing a bill for the National Fund, and it's a good thing that we are in the position to discuss such a matter. In principle, I can agree with the basic concept behind such a fund that appears in parsity. The bill, the objective article, to rely on the financial resources of the state in order to meet the consequences of major unforeseen events. At the same time, of course, it can be done in many ways and in the highest degree. The financial and economic secretary raised such questions in his history. We can continue to pay off debt, as we have been doing in the last few years, and thus save ourselves the growth and new the needed infrastructure. Also, it is always a question of whether a government fund should be in debt or where the limit is, how much debt is desirable. I assume that not all economists will agree on that subject. Indeed, we can continue to build social infrastructure, especially since we have come into debt in many places. I'm talking about transport, and I'm talking about social infrastructure, such as the development of a microenergy pension, pension, nursing homes, which are part of a fund-extruding goal and are presented in a government contract. We can, like the highest. The minister entered, paid faster into an unfunded pension debt, which was about 619 billion by the end of 2017, and is estimated to reach 645 billion 2019. We could subsidize them to a greater extent. It will strengthen the treasure of the kingdom, as it will be in other ways. This involves bearing fruit. It is now estimated that 7 billion will be put in the budget each year according to a national financial programme, with an independent objective in the budget of 2019. That's fine. In other words, annual budgeting, the growth of an unfunded commitment, can be studied annually at 12How 13 billion. We can use that kind of money. You wonder if it could be paid down faster, that's how it works, and that's how you save yourself some of the 1,21⁄213 billion that way. It is included in a paper with the bill on page 18. 16 with a good argument. I'm going, a respectable president, to grab it. The reviews of the Business Business and Business Association lead to the position of the State's Penitentiary, and it is wondered whether funds were better spent on their payment. In addition, the potential effect of the fund on currency markets is highlighted. The latter stake also suggests that taxes will be further attacked because of the scope of growth in energy resources. This is to say, first of all, that the state responsibility for the commitments of the ISR was lifted after the renovation of the 2016 department. Using measures on the part of government funds, which are already built and included. it is assumed that the B-SR can fully understand its commitments. Second, in terms of the impact on currency markets, increased income may have been spent on paying largely foreign currency debts of energy companies. This is part of an answer or argument to these questions and the vast role of such a trust fund. There are many of them, and there are different kinds of people. Much here has been referred to the Norwegian oil Fund. In a government contract, the highest. Governments are planning for the establishment of this fund, and we see it with the bill where national funds will be established over the interest of the resources of the country. It also states that some of the funds will be used for the efforts of nursing nurses for the oldest generation. I'm all for it, I think we should look at social structures where we're now in debt. Thus, it is clear that the fund's project is extending beyond the fundamental conceptology and the purpose of strengthening the wealth of the state. Whether there is a need for a special fund with part of a regular work, management and requirement to increase money, a special investment policy, and a special committee, as stated in specific laws in the bill, which determine whether and when it is needed to set aside funds from the fund, as stated in Article 7. in the bill. The Committee of Assessments (EC) includes three members of the Committee of Assessment, according to the Commission's appointment of the Generals, so we have a special committee that assesses situations that arise and whether funds may be set aside. Hence, many questions arise as to when to take money out of such funds instead of going to the projects and strengthening the financial funds directly, as we have seen here and these questions arise. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson said it could be paid out just directly to the owners of the resources, the homes, or the taxes. It has another side effect, secondary to promote competitiveness, etc. Regarding the presentation and otherwise connection to debt, I refer to an article on page 5. 10 That the National Fund will be transferred to the financial balance of the state's budget, thus affecting a financial situation. It assumes that he is appreciated for the decommissionment of debt, according to Article 7. it's a government law. This is important when it comes to evaluating the strength and trust in the Icelandic economy and thus building the credit system. Although it is different, it has the same effect as paying off debt when we consider this from the sustainability and stability of public funds, which is thus strengthened. Then it is important to consider that the role such a fund can certainly promote economic management in the eyes of building up and maintaining stability. Such a fund can work through financial policies, economic policies, and thus have an impact on gang swings, thus providing economic security and stability. In an article written earlier this year by Sigurður Hannesson, the executive director of the Industrial Association, the headline for Stability Fund increases the competitiveness of Iceland. In this article, Sigurður refers to a report published by the International Cash Fund on National Fund, Management and Control of Their Possessions, saying that the purpose of such funds may be some and mention them from the report of the World Bank that can be stability funds, as I entered, with the goal of insinuating state funds and economy from fluctuations in raw prices and external events. This is also shown in a paper with the bill. It may be collections that have the responsibility to preserve money for future generations. The value of nonrenewable resources is thus invested in stocks. It's nothing like the Norwegian fund, but it's a front committee and it's in the paper and it's looked up about the equipment, regulations and organization of the funds we're thinking about talking about in this bill, until, because we're talking about building up this fund, it's going to be about 10% of the world's total worth of money in one year. There the Norwegian fund uses about 3% of the funds in the 2018 Norwegian budget, which accounts for about 18% of the total budgets of this year. These may be developing funds set up to invest in infrastructure. At that time, countries have established funds for the traumatized pension debt of state funds. As I took steps earlier, it is a perfectly valid question to go through. It is very important that we define the precise role of the fund. It's done, and it's good. V.E.G. A minister went over the Icelandic National Fund as a shocking defense for the nation, e.g. if there is substantial failure or protection against tragedy, natural disasters, or other threats. A paper with the bill examines different models, and it's a good way to review them as the highest level. A minister did in his history, so I'm not going to go further into it. I would like to mention what is stated on page 18. 9 of the report. It refers to public financial law and refers to the role of a reserve that should be at least 1% of total financial resources and intended to be met because we're looking at a fund we have to deal with some kind of variation in terms of government budgets each year, a variation to the salary and prices of budgetors, gang effects, and various intervening, unscheduled budgets and external expenses, and can usually be used only to a very limited extent for external trauma when their effects are not significant. Thus, economic equipment is not readily available to meet major disasters caused by other than natural disasters, thus supporting their plans. I'm just on my final steps in my speech and I want to stress that it is very important that such a fund be made of great solidarity, beyond many other matters, I would count, which is being discussed and discussed at the council, and that the management of the fund is in the way of living by political currents and governments for the long future, thus fulfilling its role. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Councilmen have established it here, and it is important that such solidarity be formed. I think one of the reasons. The Economic and Business Committee is setting up all the questions, possible and impossible, around the equipment of this fund, purpose and role and how we can secure it, and this is how we can achieve a solidarity on such funds that I appreciate the key when we complete this case. A respectable president. This is a big, not a single case, and at the same time very important and can be very positive. At the end, I reiterate that it is necessary to look well for the fund to achieve its purpose and its role to be very clear and defined when we accept this matter. I'm right about what I said in the beginning, and all I can see is that we're at this point in our society to discuss such a treasure into the future for future generations is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u60	Madam President. As a child, I was taught that if I had any leftovers, I should set aside. It paid off. We were taught that saving is virtue. In this respect, these virtues are a highly elevated bill for the law of the National Fund. The Secretary of Economics and Economics is putting in for tonight. I cannot help but congratulate him and the Independence Party on making that claim. The subject of the bill is a great statement, and I can see nothing better than that the lights were on and that people now see the reasonable and good goals that we peers have talked about for so long, that our resources are ours, all of us Americans, this is our property of the people we are supposed to have something to do and have a share in. I have hoped that this will be the beginning of the changed times and that we will go further into the process of making the most of what the land gives us, the resources, and that we can build up in this way a variety of services, and accept events that happen. I haven't had a chance to read very carefully through the bill and I'm not going to go through it materially but, of course, there are issues of opinion and many questions that remain. I assume that during the discussion and in the discussion the opinion will be destroyed but the highest. Of course, a minister has made us aware of some factors, when national funds will come to the rescue of tragedy, when it will not be able to do so, and if he succeeds, there will be a wealth of wealth. This may not be in the spirit that we peers have suggested and spoken of, but all of it we cannot expect the Independence Party to omit our own ideologies in one piece. We believe, however, that our ideas are to be enjoyed on the greatest day of judgment, let's say. In the 5th. says, with permission of the president: The contributions to the National Fund, which are equal to all the revenues made by the state's income, income and other revenues, are due to the use of energy resources on the administration of the state of the state from energy companies. That's what it's all about. There's a difference of opinion. We have suggested a certain proportion of the quality of the energy companies, or take the electricity companies from each kilogram of their time, to pay a small price for the use of the resource, similar to what is done in many other places. Norway was mentioned, and the Great Oil Fund. There they pay a price, which is probably some percentage of the roll. So you can ask yourself, and the discussion will, of course, develop. This may be the main concern of public energy companies. What about the energy companies not owned by the government, private partnerships or partnerships owned by both local and foreign enterprises? Madam President. It is well known that we have spoken for resource resources and that we are to enjoy our resource resources together. The highest spokesmen will then stumble. Minister back and say that we can't overtax it, it works discouraging. We, as good as any of us, are not advocates of any super taxes. However, we realize that many things have to be done. We want a powerful welfare service, and there is a great need for money in that category, e.g. Today, and the recent discussion of a budget bill has to be stopped to various holes. V.E.G. In his talk earlier, a minister mentioned that the taxes in Iceland were relatively high worldwide. Why are people talking about the world? Why do we not limit our discussion with the North countries? We want to be a welfare community in Scandinavian languages, where there is the world's greatest welfare and aim for it. In the end, we do not have more taxes than we do, and we walk elsewhere in the North. I'm not going to drag this around, but let me repeat that I believe this is a happy day, especially for the Independence Party. This involves an important recognition, and let us look ahead and think about obtaining a resource fund that can be very useful to us. There we think of the hot water, and think of the cold water and valuables found in the earth, and I don't talk about the fish in the sea we've discussed most, but there are many other valuables we should discuss as a common property, now perhaps the last discussion of the fish fire. That is where we are going in a legal environment that is very free of charge. There we need to have a clean, clear resource policy that will benefit us all, and we need to make peace with them. It will be fascinating and enjoyable to keep talking about it at the council. This bill has a beauty that we will appreciate, and hopefully it will bring us success and that we need it, not to use it in major disasters that are harmful to the people of the land, but in some upbuilding way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u61	A respectable president. First, I would like to thank you in general for a very positive reaction to the case and a good foundation for this idea, which I do not get tired of saying is actually building solidly on the solidarity of the council and on the long future because there is little room to go on this great journey as a boiler building if it is done in conflict and man disagrees about the fundamentals so that the reconciliation or the majority will remain for a long time. It is of great value, and it is also important that the church arrangement be careful and that we look to the different viewpoints that can be tried for a long time. There have been a number of factors, e.g. ... has been taken into account the responsibility of the Council of Directorates, but I also call attention to Article 12. The bill involved in making a annual bill for each account year, and it is revised by a state accountant. Thereafter, based on 2 mg, it is expected. to receive a report less than quarterly, four times a year. They are made public, and the secretary of the Council accounts for the activities of the fund each year. It is probably noted that there was a reason for the Minister to explain more often, but I believe that the annual written report to the council in addition to the official publication of the quarter reports is completely satisfactory and that there is no reason to think otherwise - if the council has any reason to call after further information, they will fail. Since then, there has been some discussion tonight about the management of the fund. I've said something before tonight, that I'm sure there's more to it than that, and then I find a principle in Article 3. The bill. This may be a conflict in the viewpoint of how much we can assume that the council will choose qualified individuals, as well as prime minister and financial minister, or to what extent they need a very clear legal rule. I have generally felt that it should be possible to assume that the prime minister, financial and economic minister, or the Congress itself, will never mention those individuals who are not in general qualified to perform the role. This is a way of using relatively general expressions; expertise and experience, especially in financial markets, economics, etc., but this is probably the case. It's also been established tonight that it would have to be completely clear whether the fund was permitted to invest in Iceland. I had made the statement that it was unfortunate for the fund to invest within the country, but I meant, in effect, that there is a reason why he is forbidden to invest within the country. That's because it's unfortunate. I wasn't suggesting that the fund had the authority to do that, which is clearly defined in Article 11. The bill, as it says, by permission of the president in 1st. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: It is not permitted to invest in stocks or other financial markets in Icelandic or Icelandic citizens with legal homes in Iceland or from foreign parties, which are worth more than two hundred percent. There are very strict rules in this regard, and it is quite clear that investments are being directed out of the country. This is what I allow myself to do as a summary of several factors that involve the subject of the bill. I'm going to allow myself to comment on general issues, e.g. ... aboutthekind of boiling we're setting aside. You're right. Guðjón The Goddjoins of Brjánsson's son came in, saying that there are all sorts of ideas to fly through, including, some of them. resources, funds that would take over and even divide back a resource of some kind, could be caused by fishing or other resource resources. I'd say that he was the difference between such funds and the person we're discussing here that we're first of all leaving the source of the revenue with a relatively narrow range of energy resources and setting the policy in these laws that we're not adding to the use of other resources to the fund, such as Fishing for the resource. But more important, we're primarily talking about treasure collections while ideas of a type of transfer fund that would then collect productions from a number of resources but just as rapidly share in certain earmarked tasks. There's quite a difference between the ideologies and the ones we're here to mention and suggest. I'd like to mention special tips from a beard. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who traced the number of examples of serious natural disasters that may come to us unexpectedly but regularly, at least in historical view, and how extensive it can be, and therefore, be careful to assume large funds from the fund, at least while it has not reached a specific size, other tasks than those associated with such disasters. I think this is a very good point, and I would like to direct it to the Committee to consider this, i.e. that while we have not gathered the capacity to have minimal equipment for such factors, it may be impossible to eliminate half of the funds for the trauma of other species, even if it could mean some collection of debt for the state's funds. It can be very difficult to draw the line because the basic building of the law here is, of course, that we should never be able to come to an expedite unless we've had major events. In that respect it may be necessary to have clean lines and to say: There needs to be something very big, something very serious, so that if we cannot rely on the fund, the guarantee, the equipment it provides, we'll be in poor quality of life, or we'll be in debt for a long time, depending on the problems ahead. There may be evidence by keeping them lines in such a clear direction. But as the separation becomes clearer between natural disasters, totally uncontrollable external events, and then events possibly caused by man - there may be things, I mean: what are you supposed to think of a speaker? There's a nuclear submarine on the fishing grounds. There may be a tragic plane crash. Network attacks have been called, such things that will not be brought directly to natural disasters or any complications in the centres of the earth. Such things can also have very serious consequences, so there is no doubt that they will lead to a shock requiring payment from the fund. But this is a very worthwhile project to go into the stitches on. I'd like to mention that one way to approach the point of view. A senator would simply say that no payment of any kind could be removed from the fund until he reached that minimum size. Then, in itself, we would be approaching the same thought, only no payment until the funds have reached a specific size. Then we wouldn't have to tie it to the fact that we were waiting for the big disaster or the great natural disaster. Just in this case, I'd like to mention that in this bill, there are a number of indications from a number of sources, but I also assume that reviews will continue to be received. We, for example, have a simple way of handling matters by using the consultation puzzle. It has been useful in this case as shown by the report, but it will certainly come up with a very valid view in the treatment of Congress, both directly from members of the Parliament and from sources of information that give the committee a worthy task to deal with. At the end of my case, I'm going to thank all those who have involved the case, and especially those who sat in the specialist group in their time, for their very important inputs. It is of course to report that at first we recommended being very open and asking very open questions, such as theirs if over our heads were any reason to set up such a fund. We also wondered if such a fund should have some sort of swinging role. The answer was negative. Whether we would have any reason to pay extra money or more on pension bonds, etc. I believe all of this is done well in the bill. I'd also like to mention that I've suggested that the situation be handled by a financial and business committee where I think it's okay at home. I thought for my part, it would be a good idea for the Committee to help him with a financial committee and get a review from it because it can't be overlooked that this is a longer-term financial situation, and then we would be calling out to those who are on the economic and business committees and could possibly be at work covering wide views and hopefully catching up the points that matter for the most broad reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u62	Madam President. I was just going to mention this with the committees. I'm not going to take this conversation very seriously, but I'm glad it's open. V.E.G. A minister stresss reconciliation, which means that we review all the views with an open mind. V.E.G. A minister suggests that the case goes to the Economic and Business Committee, and I like it because I sit there and get them to work on the case, but as a legal committee for many years, I would have thought, as if it were clearly the legal case. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he has considered the role of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-12-48.u63	A respectable president. I think there's a lot of cases that are so big that it will eventually be considered to be where they belong best. I called for guidance from the council, and this was the guidance I received, that men would feel that way. I think that the main reason for this is that, basically, we may be taking steps that might be called economic arrangements rather than financial arrangements and that the budget is more directly addressed to financial issues and, of course, financial policies, while we look to a considerable amount of time. But as I said at the outset, these are often points of observation, depending on the seat you watch, and that was actually why I was not more certain than I thought it was right to ask the council.
