ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u1	By letter, dated December 4, 2018, the president has requested this, according to the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board of administrations and monitoring committees, are reporting on the report of the National Relations on Foreign Institutes, proceedings and procedures.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u2	The president wants to state due to the media coverage of his life course. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir that this matter has been considered on the part of the Generals, and the conclusion is clear. A senator has completely obtained correct information about his life course. If you consider how it is recorded, there is a misreading where it has been held until then. A senator falsely titled himself evolution coach. It's not. To that number where the dog is. A candidate makes it clear that he has a degree and a final exam in his course as well as a training and education test with emphasis on special education. Hv. On the other hand, a senator has worked as a coach and professional director. Regarding other matters that have also been taken into consideration, to the point. A senator falsely claimed that she was the editor of Glauca, a professional magazine expert, and recorded at the time. A senator did not enter it, but the office's login might have been more specific about that point and the court would have been documenting the point. A senator would have been an editor. It's not for what? A senator to be accused. Hopes that that's the case with the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u3	Mr. Speaker. It's a great Senate home. I'd like to talk to you about work, health issues. People are estimated to spend about one third of their lives at work. It is a long time, and it is important for people to be comfortable at work, as well as at other places. It is the responsibility of employers, employees themselves, and society in general that it will be. One woman had arrived at a new, large workplace. She was rather modest, and a few employees greeted her. She was happy, but others barely respected her. She was surprised. The woman met a woman with whom she knew but who had not seen for a long time. That woman turned away and said little. Perhaps she was not allowed to be seen talking to this woman, just as the head of the department had produced a line about it. I don't know. This shows that the workplace of these women needs public health policies. Thus, good employment and the well - being of employees can have many benefits, such as fewer alibis from work, more production, and better work performance. A good workplace culture improves corporate image and culture. It is unmistakably that circumstances in the workplace affect your health, and the health of your employees affect the way they do their work. For a long time, the work programme has worked to provide health protection at work, and the emotional and well - being of work is just as important to employees as to other security factors. A surgeon's work is increasing the health of society, and all workplaces should be health - related communities. As far as I know, few workplaces in this country have developed such policies. Therefore, I would like to encourage the great General Assembly to shape public health policies and to set a good example that can contribute to the well - being of both members of the Parliament and members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u4	A respectable president. First, I want to condemn the events that have set in motion the disasters that have struck this workplace and the nation during the past few days. Still, I'm going to talk about another disaster in this speech or natural problem. We have a variety of natural disasters in Iceland. We have our fire stations, our bares, our land floods and the sea and the storms and things we have to be prepared for. There are a number of people who come to work on a natural problem, not only to map and respond to it but also to prepare society to reduce the most damaging effects. These include police police and national security, rescue teams, and other things, the Weather Service, the whole educational community, our universities, our rural communities, and things. Many of these and most of them are in a stable state, and the cooperation between parties involved in these matters is very good. But what I think we need to be sure here, like coo. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has been talking about the last few days too, we have some perspective. We need to base on where to make a risk assessment. Have we made any needed risk factors? When it comes to the risk assessment, how will it be taken care of? Are there any planning? Are they practiced? Is there a sound starter? Are there tests started, what tests do we have, and what tests do we need? Above all, will we go to the preventive infrastructure needed to cope with this problem? To reduce the risk of human loss or loss of possessions? This perspective also needs to be followed, and all these factors need to be prioritised. That's what we need to consider here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u5	Mr. President. I come up here to celebrate an article of the highest order. Health Minister Svandís Svavarsdóttir, in the Morning Press yesterday, December 3, under the heading "Second Afflicted Adolizers. " There a minister enters the ongoing challenge of human health, especially large groups of women. I welcome the words of a minister and her encouragement that the terms, working hours, and working environment of an orderly will be examined and taken into action. It is important that health care is well designed and that multidisciplinary cooperation is successful. As with other professions, every employee is important in health care. The article concluded that in the year 2030, health policy should be the means by which the human needs of the health system have been analysed and the appropriate measures taken by the government to ensure design. It speaks of 2030, but I want to remind you that a farmer is already there and is increasing every year. As a nation, we cannot afford to spend many years in analysis and think about appropriate measures. We need to respond now, attract educated medical personnel and other health - care groups to work within the medical system, and increase the number of those who study health. It also puts out the highest words. The health minister's unexpected reasons for optimism over government contracts, the welfare services organisations and the Union for the funding of nursing homes, which are large staff members. A Ramma deal expires at the end of the year. Contract agreements have not yet met, but the emphasis on human resources is positive messages into that work. In order to provide adequate care for a well - being, nursing homes need increased funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u6	A respectable president. Yesterday, on December 3, the International Day of Disregarding People was the International Day. The discussion that took place in a bar and affected disabled people is frightening. We must never allow hatred to prevail. The work I've been doing for the past few years is about survival, the national relationship with motorists, the Autosave Home, and the Peace Coalition. Watching large - disabled people and ill - disabled persons fight every day against the obstacles they face is admirable, how far they get, and how far they are ready to fight. The ability to think what was going on there, to put it in words, and to sit underneath them should not be tolerated. We need to realize that there were 10% of the U.S. Reich. Ten percent of the senators were sitting there under this speech. We need to realize, too, that this tells us all about those who were there and nothing about those who were discussed. We must avoid gross hatred speech and shame against women and minorities. We have to be careful that the shame is with those who spoke there and never bring it over to others. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u7	V.E.G. President. As far as I'm concerned, the Icelandic government will sign the United Nations Convention in Maress, Morocco, at a meeting that will take place on December 10 and 11 of this magazine. I assure you that the vast majority of the people would give a question mark if the people were available to take their stand for it. As a result of this contract, the borders of Iceland will be opened to nearly all the peoples of the earth who choose to move out here from a position. The agreement, known as Global Comact for Safety Orderly and Regulatory Migration, readily translated an international contract for safe, organized, and regular transport of people. This contract stipulates the United Nations opinion that people in the world are desirable to be made accessible to those on earth as theirs. This is humane matter, an attempt to relieve mankind's suffering, and it would be good if only. However, representatives of the nations who have studied the agreement will say that the free Western world is a means for them to enter a law in their own country that fulfills the agreement, including the contract. that language against the agreement should be classified as a hate speech talk and that a court order must be closed to the media guilty of such a discussion. In other words, the basic human rights, the republic's constitution and the basis for freedom of the individual and Western society must be weighed. For the two years, the treaty has not received any publicity that will be seen at the General Assembly, with the government, or in the media. Therefore, on December 10 or 11, after more than a week, the U.S. secretary of foreign affairs or his replacement is expected to commit to us, without any discussion about the national contract. It is known that several countries will not confirm the agreement. The presidents of this agreement will argue that he is not legally binding, and it may be in a narrow sense, but no one can recommend that the deal is political binding and that countries are exposed to legal interpretations of various kinds. There's a way to think that now that we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the sovereign world and the media are no more concerned about Iceland's sovereignty. One case after another is tried to push through the council, or, more serious, past it in small slices - the Shulammite's way of exposition. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the Council to discuss this agreement as well as the rest that will follow. If it proves to be true, then the office of a government under international law or control at the baseline in Western society must reject the signing of such agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u8	V.E.G. President. One group for which the government has not guaranteed housing security is for tenants in a public tenet. The reason is that rent prices are high, rent time is short, and rent contracts are made to put up with tenants who are constantly worth up. Mr. President. Actual rent contracts are bound to an increase in the consumption index. In addition, there is a warrant for increased rent if the cost of operating is increased, e.g. Real estate fees. Then there are only short leases until one year, after which rent prices are raised after a marketing raise. How can rent be considered solid when living at tens of thousands of dollars after just a year's rent? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. As long as we have the rules of depositing insurrections for 36 months, i.e. Three years, general tenants do not enjoy comparable rights. Why can the contracts of public dwellings be assured this year and added to the end of the period exactly the increase in consumer sciences to be measured? During the remainder of the situation, renting a house will never be a real option. Mr. President. Here governments need to intervene in order to ensure reasonableness and justice. It is supposed to ban insurance on a rent less than three years old. Such a change is in accordance with the right to secure savings. Investors should have no more rights to use insurance than citizens with savings. The problem of tenants is not that we have to raise prices here, the problem is how much rent can be raised during the period of rent, and whether such elevations can be considered normal or reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u9	V.E.G. President. For what? A global and educational committee is now covering a bill I proposed early this fall to improve the law on restraining order and expulsion from home. Transporters are from all categories at the council. The bill is about to improve the treatment of the council so that it will not be as heavy in the field, especially when the defendant is acceptable to the police officer's decision on the use of a restraining order. However, the bill also stipulates a more sensitive approach. The bill was passed last week by two reviews, one from the Iceland Human Rights Office and the other from the Association of Women of Foreign descent. Both comments are extremely positive and agree with the importance of breaking the problem and how important it is to obtain less effective measures before administering these measures. I hope so. The General and Education Committee will consider the matter as soon as possible and we will succeed in completing it as soon as possible, infringement and benefit to all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u10	Mr. President. Are the senators Anna Kolbrún the Year's Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson telling them how to act? I'd rather ask them, " Can they do their jobs? ' They're here to attend a council meeting and a committee meeting. They are to fulfill their role in keeping watch over the rulers of the country. They must be careful about handling legal procedures and putting themselves in court, listening to the visitors before committees, and cooperating with other members of Congress and ministers. A group of senators, mostly women, could be subjected to gross obscenities, instigations, false accusations, and disrespectful conduct on the part of these individuals, by their direct words or inactions because of their presence. Note that we have only heard their comments about public persons and not others, so we do not know how they chose to discuss other people, e.g. The members of the Parliament, who have their jobs to endure the presence of these individuals. Computer malfunctions, Congress issues have to be prepared, information needs to be provided - many of these people have been asking themselves and us: How do they talk about me? Let us also be aware that some of what was said has not been published because of the way it felt. None of them can direct a request to the highest level. Minister of education, I don't think she has to answer the criminal burden in a shameful way. The woman who endured both false charges and disrespectful remarks about herself should not have to endure any contact with these people. Then there are the countless guests whose positions are due to appear before the council committees. Nor should they endure their presence. Therefore, Mr. President, this is the question that the members of Congress need to answer: Can they do their job? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u11	Mr. President. We've thought that we were on the lead in equality. That self - image has been turned off in these last days. As in this country, we see a dramatic change in the status of women as a result of a change in political stage in the North countries, in the United States, and in many parts of Europe. The president of the United States has boasted that women allow him to fondle and kiss them when he is suitable and that they will grab their vagina. At the same time as Trump, funds for international groups support some form of pregnancy rupture, such as the United Nations Population Fund, will add to the budget for an organization that works against the rights of women and queer people. Trends in the North also worry, such as the prime minister and director of the right party in Norway, Erna Solberg, to ban pregnancy break altogether beyond the 12th week, no matter what the women themselves want. Political and soccer have a common place in being very man - made worlds. During the days, Norwegian soccer Ada Ada Hegerberg was chosen the world's best soccer player, and as soon as she accepted this great recognition, the host asked her to shake her ass and then became amazed at a negative reaction to the disrespect he displayed. The thunder of political Sarah Söruh-Hanson-Yong has been like a fire on the Internet for the last few days. She says that in a powerful way, if she disagrees with certain men of the Australian council, they have had plenty of attitude toward the Australian council. Not all men are the one who uses or abuse in demeaning terms about women. We all need to agree so that the dissension manifest during the last days in such a clear way will not have any further harm.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u12	A respectable president. Yes, it is a strange atmosphere at the Grand Parliament today. It is clear that none of us are part of it. It may not be the main issue of whether I have been able to endure in this matter and whether I see a favour that cannot make decisions or whatever it may be. I've had a really fun song written at the New Year's deal that I'm so proud of. The generals may also have feelings without being slandered and dejected. I'm proud and I want to thank the President for his good apology and how he began our work here yesterday, how he began a council meeting here yesterday. I loved it, and I was proud of my president yesterday. We have a board of ethics, and I would like to encourage all of us to care for the will that we are here showing to change the situation at the council, change the way we are spoken about in the community, change the morals that we have been living here for decades where no one has accepted the responsibility of their actions. There's no dressers asking for subversive, behind tenting, and drinking next to the council during the council. The voters want honest people into the Allied Parliament, and they want first and last trust. I'm sure that while the people's party now sails halfway from the table - here we are left two, Guðmundur Ingi and I, who were once the least of them at the Council but who are obviously the least -- are now able our voters to continue trusting the Gang of the people. We came here for one reason and one reason only. We continue to fight poverty. We Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and I are both desperate, we fight for the economy and we improve the ideal minorities in Iceland, which so far have been placed in a garden. It won't change if we're just the two of us left in the Gangsters. We will stand stronger than ever before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u13	Mr. President. A little song known as the Narcissist prayer is now roaming around the world. It reads, in my loose translation, by permission of the president: This didn't happen. If that happened, it wasn't that bad. If it was bad, it's not a big deal, though. If there's a problem, I didn't mean anything by it. And if I meant something by that, you deserved it. This prayer is illustrated by the response of the head of the Central Party to the disgusting attitudes that the Capplication revealed to the public that the members of the Central Party and now members of the independence had in public. The head of the Middle Party would like to deny that the women's contempt, their disability and prejudice against homosexuals that were wooled out of him and some members of the bar at dawn are common at the General Assembly, and therefore not the Generals, especially men at council, to look at themselves, this is a matter of culture at the council. To me, this is the gross manner of the senator, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, to his colleagues here at the council. I can't believe he's telling the truth, and I want to defend my male colleagues because it's a Typsy premium, which is unconvincing. But if there is something about the council's culture that needs to be fixed, this reaction to the Chairman, who is so crystalting in the prayer of the Narcissist, is an indication of this harmful culture. Because they are apt to discover the mistakes and iniquities of the people of generals. This didn't happen. If that happened, it wasn't that bad. If it was bad, it's not a big deal, though. If there's a problem, I didn't mean anything by it. And if I meant something by that, you deserved it. Let us stop using these excuses. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u14	A respectable president. I'm going to use this short time here to discuss a matter that I find very urgent and that is transport in the capital area. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee was introduced this morning to a report published by a rural group in the capital area and by the Transport Board. This is the 43 - page report, so I'm not going to say I read it all. But I'd like to interrupt some of the main points of the report. It shows that the contribution of the capital area to the 15 - year transport programme is very low, with 18% of the new road budget and only 8% of public transport support. The changes made in the transport programme allow for a complete transport package in the capital area, which is what this task group was assigned to do. It speaks of targeted investments and measures that help to reduce transport efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions. The proposals of the Task Force are set up to protect new independent income stocks, such as cutbacks, subsidies, and the share of carbon bills, from paying for these projects. The proposals assume that by 2019 there will be 600 million. K. ... toexpect the project and half come from the state and half from the Company. I'd like to reiterate what I've said before in this hall, the importance of working with our rural society in the capital area when it comes to transportation. I think that few areas have done as much analysis of the situation as the rural areas have done, of course, in good cooperation with the Department of Transport. Among other things, an assessment of the main conventions was conducted in 2017, showing that there are 17 corners of the morning and 19 corners of the afternoon, which need to be carefully examined and reassigned. Light control has to be added to the intersections, and that is, for example, very cheap and effective. However, it is inevitable to take steps to change the roadways to reduce road speed and to increase traffic security, even if the goals for increased use of other routes are achieved. [[The president calls.]] And I'd like to finally reiterate that we too need to be effective in changing our journeys.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u15	President. It has been a challenge to work with a group that I disagree with as much as the Middle Ages, not just when it comes to policy and affairs, but also in basic ideas and attitudes. They conflict with my basic understanding of the world, of the community, and of the people with whom I share the community. But I have always kept in mind that the members of the Central Party are representatives of their voters at the council, voters who have the right to have a voice in here. Since I have respected it, I have emphasized where we can agree, where we can work together. The inevitable result of approach is that you become closer to the people you disagree so often, and in some absurd way, they make the work of a council harder to deal with, especially in a position like the one that exists today. The public calls attention to the reports of senators who have exposed an ancient and disparaging attitude toward much of their fellow citizens. Trust's broken. If politicians care about democracy and their voters seriously consider their positions, they will ask themselves, " Is it harmful to sit by the political party and its ability to work for their affairs, whether it is harmful to politics and trust in the council, whether it is harmful to democracy? ' If so, it is a sign of uncontrollably self - interest and self - interest care to remain at the council after the death of the member of that body to work faithfully on the affairs and policies of its party. President. Finally, I want to say that since my starting work at the council, I have gradually developed a picture of the bad culture that exists at this workplace. The culture is full of strife, subversiveness, dishonesty, contours, and behind the curtain. The danger resulting from this culture is that individuals who see little or no success in honest approach will start putting the purpose of the sacred service to work and gradually lose sight of their moral boundaries. It is a subtle trend that is difficult to prevent without an ongoing self - examination. This culture is part of the problem, and I think it's important that we ask ourselves, " Is it time to eliminate this culture and start practicing other politics? ' [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u16	Mr. President. Most likely, it is not the human child that comes to the senses and years of age, who does not realize the importance of innovation and the practicality in both commercial and other community structure. It's not just that our schools need to stress these matters. We are at the point where we need to emphasize these issues in the structure of our institutions. It has to be the most important thing in the history of innovation, for the government's government covenant is full of beautiful words about these exact issues. Thus, it is surprising, but not that they are being summed up, cut down for scientific contributions. Another hundred million are being cut to the research fund of Science and Technology. Practicality, saying something, a practical option, is something you just have to put your foot down and make a requirement for government priorities if they mean something in this matter. It's a competitive fund. I'm going to read how he gives strength, by permission of the president: ▪ Research fund provides strength according to general focus of the Scientific and Technical Council and based on professional assessment of the quality of research projects, the skills of the researchers and their facilities for carrying out the project. This is simply the path of young scientists into this environment. There are few ways of doing so, and it is being cut down accurately, especially since it is some practical step. I require the government that they stand by the big words and go, not limping as are expected, even crawling, but seriously in the process of standing on the big words because our future is at stake, that we perform our young researchers and we do the task of making the knots so seriously new things. That won't happen if we keep our young scientists outside. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u17	Mr. President. Today, Christmas season is being shortened, and it is important for all of us that these last few weeks are going well. The work's been going well this fall. The discussion of the budget is about to come to an end, and here, most of us are looking for a better source of political disposal for the past few years. The General Assembly, first of the councils, held a so - called barbershop, where members of the Parliament discussed how the work environment could be improved here at the General Assembly. In the fall of that year, there was such a helpful discussion about the promotion of trust in politics, which discussed the reasons why there was so little evidence. While events of the last days may have something solid and trustworthy to do, the General Assembly is the general legislature of our work. Here, we spend most of the week together across classes. We eat together, we work together, we talk. That is why it is so important for us to be at our place of employment and to have security. Sadly, this is not the case at the General Assembly these days. Events in recent times bring up many emotions and most of the people I've discussed feel that our workplace has been black. Then, last night, in the middle of a television interview, we were kept quiet with the members of Congress. paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson's victory over his speech and several other members of the council about his or her associates and others is traditional, not even functioning if all were drawn up as they have spoken. A respectable president. It's unacceptable to sit under such coverts. It would be more correct now, when the formal process of this case is begun, that the workers would have a human right to try to kill the case by saying that everyone in this room is responsible, for it would never be an excuse. We must expect more of ourselves as politicians and as people than to point to the air and say that others are worse. Your six is shame, you are to take responsibility. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u18	A respectable president. I'm here to recommend a committee party. The Economic and Business Committee is responsible for the termination of law No. 51 of the 1924th year, for a bond. I don't have to say it's often that you get such happy legal products, but it's about to cut off these great songs. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Guðmundur Kári Kárason and Sigurður Páll Ólafsson, from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The committee received a review of the case from Iceland's Federal Bank, but according to the bill, no. 51/1924, value. The law has already been replaced by the law on the domestic loan fund, No. 79/1983, as well as a law on the State of Lendour, in 1943. The only physical principle in the law on government bonds that is not anywhere else in the law is that bonds should not be published for more than 25 years, as 1 mgr. Section 3. The law. Commenting on this point, the Office of the Bank that lends interest to the state funds, it says: Despite the current policy for government funds, it does not assume that such a possibility will be used unless it is shown that such a version has significant benefits to the government's funds, the late bank recommends a deportation of law No. 51/1924 as this increases the financial benefits of debt management and increases the scope of risk distribution. The Commission does not comment on the removal of a law of government bonds, suggesting that the bill be passed on as unchanged. Álfheiður Eymundsdóttir was absent from the case. Under the committee's opinion, write in addition to mine. Sigmundur Óli Kárason Kársson, chairman of the Committee, Hildur Sverrisdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, Þorsteinn Harðardóttir of Wíndur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u19	Mr. President. I'm here recommending a committee board with a bill-change proposal for electronic display and tax stress, and a 211st case, on Article 529. The bill suggests changes to the new law that it is stated that pressures of various taxes can be sent and made electronically. This steps have been taken to further the development of electronic administration, but it is accepted as critical of how much Icelandic government is going to do in this regard, including compared to the rest of the North countries. The reviews received by the Committee support the bill progresses. At the same time, reporters are urging further and administrative legislation to be reviewed with the aim of making it clear that electronic management is a principle regarding all government relations with the public. In fact, according to the Commission's review of the European Union, it says, with permission of the highest power. President: It is important that the administrative law be clear, and it does not have to be stated on special regulations whether it is permitted to publish a decision electronicly or not. The review of the Council of Business Control likewise points out that Iceland is badly affected by international comparison and the introduction of technology into public administration. The Global Innovation Index for government spelling is Iceland's 60th position in 126 states, between Peru and Bangladesh. The review contains a picture that appears in the committee view that would be open to members of the Parliament. The committee considers this as an improvement and recommends its approval, but it also agrees with the above views that it can be better if effective. If the Commission gives a valid indication that there is a risk that the bill is being taken, specialized that certain public notifications are permitted electronically, questions about whether it is right to counterbalance the possibility that electronic publication is forbidden unless specifically authorised. This suggests that the Commission is shocking and is directed to the Ministry of Presidency to produce a complete review, including a pan-European review. Factors IX. Article 5 of the Treaty, No. 37/1993, on electronic treatment of administrative legislation, which makes it clear that electronic communication is a principle, not an exception, including when it comes to tax stress and payment. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with a change so that the bill's headline will be a bill to correct the change in various tax pressures and pay (radial release). Under the heading of this magazine, which stands here, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. Councilmen of the Þorsteinn of Gülund, Víglundsson, Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Hildur, the Sverrisdóttir of Sveriris, A Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir, Harðardóttir G.; Hardydótt, the daughter of Ólafur, the Gunnarsson of Gur, and Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunul. Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdotir was away from the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u20	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a commission on bill change of law by budgeting for 2019, on Article 564, case 3. As mentioned in the opinion of the committee, some members of the Governing Body were contacted by the committee. The Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the head of state taxation, the Association of Business Life, the National Department of Pension, the Association of Tourism and the Micronition. The bill suggests changes to various legal requirements that affect the income and the remuneration side of the state's budget. Among the measures, an increase in carbon charge of 10% is expected to deliver about 550 million. K. increase in income and a 2.5% increase in cost to the elderly, which yields 64 million. K. The largest revenues return a 2.5% rise in centenarian taxes and retails in accordance with the prices proposals of the budget bill, i.e. an increase in oil charge, a general and a special fuel charge, a general and a special mile tax, a car tax, and a price of alcohol and tobacco. In all, it is considered to give away the state funds of about $1.6 billion on a bonus. As a result, a total of these changes are estimated to be 2,3 billion. Some of the elements of the bill being paid on the side of the state's budget are extended to the duration of the 14th-thirds of the provisional terms on social security, No. 100/2007, who insists that the non-employment limit for biofuels will be 1,315,200 k. It would have been unsolved by the coming year's end, and the holiday target would have dropped to 300,000 dollars. and resulted in improvements in microenergy and rehabilitation parenchymal patients with levels above their limit of employment. As a result, the government's expenditures dropped by 1 billion. In 2019 C.E., but the bill prevents it. It is important to note that Article 12. The bill is suggested that the pension fund at the FEC reduces from 0.0091% to 0.0084% of the clean holding of the pension fund by the end of the year. The check account is divided into two, a fixed price, and a variable one. Despite reductions in the share of monitoring costs, it is apparent that the expenses of the pensions increase as their clean property has increased. The National Union of Pension Funds notes that the composition of the variable part and the fixed part of the monitoring fee need to be revised to the FEC. The majority agree with that indication, pointing to the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs that such reviews are being made. The Commission's review of the European Commission suggests that a change in Iceland's natural disaster insurance will be made that the Agency pays fixed fees which are paid by law at the minimum check-up cost of insurance insurance companies. If this is consistent with the view that the monitoring rate corresponds to the actual actual cost of monitoring. The majority of the items match the same angle, making changes in this area. In a panel study, more than a part of the Economic and Business Committee on Proclamation, which became the law of No. 96/2017, a 3rd matter at the 148th legislature, was identified in 1st. 57st. b Tax tax law, No. 90/2003, if permitted to reduce taxable interest costs and losses due to loan trade between linked parties, would be restricted. Based on the 3 mg. The article is not relevant if the borrower carries an unlimited tax service in this country. According to the B team 3. law on changing various laws on taxes, customs, and fees, No. 59/2017, compare number 2. the same law, was to be dismissed on January 1 of the past. However, it was noted that deportation of the issue could result in the loss of normal funding within the kit, which is not aimed at limiting tax pay. In view of the greater part for the 2nd. it was shown that there was a change in the proposal to meet the above views on the deletion of the 3rd mg team. 57st. b Act on income tax. The committee received such an adjustment from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, but in the opinion of the greater part, the adjustment proposal was not sufficient to meet the earlier views where limitation of 1 mg was limited. 57st. b If interest and losses are regularly exceeded the limits specified in the loans, they may still contribute to the maintenance of loans. As a result, the greater proportion proposed to decontamination of b-ions 3mg. 57st. b Tax tax would be suspended for one year, or to 1 January 2019. Thus, it would be time to shape a proposal consistent with Iceland's commitments according to the European Economic Area Convention, without allowing it to affect the normal funding of the joint, which is not aimed at limiting taxes. Work on a bill where such a proposal is made is actually finished, as far as I know, the bill is ready. However, this is going to be measured and made formal, and it's going to take place in the reporting process of the Economic and Business Committee and for a review of the Economic and Business Committee. In view of the potential for shock, I wished that the bill would work, following this discussion here, back to the committee so that we would have a table for a living, or a chance to take action if any of the factors need to be taken. A review of the National Union of Pension Treasures suggests changing the annual rates of life insurance rights and accepting a greater proportion of the Committee. Then there are adjustments that are technical and are not meant to have material influence. From the above, the larger part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes provided on a separate document. Under the opinion of the above - mentioned publications, Óli Björn Kárason, and why. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Njáll Friðbertsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglur.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u21	Mr. President. I'm here to recommend a committee party. Economic and Business Commission on bill to legalize the switch to income tax laws, no. 90/2003, with subsequent changes (reimprovement of pension from taxation). The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted with representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and the Micro-Communications Alliance and the Developmental Organization. The bill is suggested to improve pension according to 1. Count 9. Law on Social Help, No. 99/2007, and an improvement to a car by 2.mg. 10th par. The same law, if the tax is withheld and does not result in a decrease in Social Security Pensions. The bill's report shows that it has done the same thing. has been consulted with the Ministry of Health and the head of the state tax. A similar case was raised by the 148th legislature Commission, but following a discussion by the Commission on this matter, the General Council decided to hide financial and economic ministers from providing a prime bill of the same material, in line with Council Recontraction No. 28/148, since it was not completely clear what a perimeter effect the change might become. Were the minister assigned to organize these factors, including so it would be certain that the compensation given would not lead to a decrease in the income of those to whom they held and would, in effect, be meaningless. According to the Committee, these factors are ensured by a pre-existing bill. In the comments given to the committee, contributions from the bill are welcomed and encouraged to accept it, which will improve the status of pensioners who have a high cost of disability or disease. The Commission has concluded that tax reforms of the type in this issue do not agree with the purpose of the payment, but they do discuss improvements that are primarily to promote the possibility of reformers'involvement in the community. The committee believes that being reasonable is a matter of great importance to those involved and suggests that the bill will be accepted as unchanged. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was absent from the case, but he signed by sources of 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. Under the writings of Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Committee, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, executive speaker, Víglundsson Wílmundsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Bortísdótir Haraldsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, Harðardóttir G. Hardborndurdótttir, and Egilsdóttir Eglótir. Mr. President. In fact, what a joy it is to be in the place of finishing this matter during the council or next. This is a matter of great justice. The senators who raised this matter, who were members of the Shock People at the last legislation, are honored to have promoted this case and to thank the fact that the matter has been brought to this place, along with the natural staff of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, and a minister who proposed it. It is of great solidarity that I believe, within the council and in the community, that the appeals of society, not for the purpose of supporting people or helping with forwardness, but to enable them to participate in society, should not be considered acceptable. And this bill is an important factor in that, and I'm especially glad we're here to finish its payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir And his story in this righteousness, Ólafur Þór the son of Gunnarsson. In fact, I can say: I am half - blind and amazingly filled with gratitude for the well - being and clear will shown by the Allied Council on this matter. Because it's fresh in mind when we stood here this spring and gave this order when the whole Congress came to realize that this is a matter of fairness and justice. And, indeed, if we join together, wherever we stand, nothing is impossible for us. Imagine giving this Christmas gift to our people, the society whose foot is locked, the world of Congress. We are at a critical milestone today in the turbulent waters where we have been under attack and we have not been looked to with great warmth during these last days, despite the fact that most of us have not been found guilty. But at this point, when we can stand in front of our people like this, smile in front of our people and say, "See what we can do if we join together, no matter where we stand, there's nothing impossible for us." And see, even though the little group of people has only been here for a year and this is our second legislature, we can do things when we deal with the obvious things that may not have been so visible. It's important that the desperate have a problem at the Council, just like everyone else. It is important that we have stood in this situation and be able to say with conviction and with experience: " This is the way it is. ' Look at the peak. There we were. We know what we are saying, and we have been welcomed. It's true what I say, we can do it, and we're gonna do it. We will. Let's do it. Merry Christmas. This is the Christmas gift from all of us to you for this Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u23	Mr. President. I hereby recommend my share of the Economic and Business Committee. The first minor section of the bill considers a law to change the law of various laws because of budgeting for 2019 not going far enough towards the necessary improvements to the tax and pay the community's environment. In some places, things have even gone away. Criticism of the 1st section focuses mainly on some specific factors attributed to this committee, while the two theme elements of the bill, the continuation of preliminary rules that reduce the capacity of society to make long-term plans, and the lack of necessary steps to achieve long-term goals. These problems lead to a situation that may be spent in 2019 C.E. when the bill is approved. The potential for dealing with the aging of the people and the climate is impaired, along with the anticipated coldness of the economy. The bill suggests that there will be temporary extensions to help overcome the interaction between the social security disability and microenergy pensions. There is also an extension of a preliminary measure of the increase in the share-of-the-employment value of biofuels due to employment revenue in the calculation of income insurance. The first minority suggests that the forwarding of preliminary regulations on the livelihood of vulnerable groups in the community is designed to promote insecurity and encourages governments to improve the quality of a pensioner rather than extend provisional requirements year after year. The elderly are under law to ensure that money is used for the construction of services centers and day - to - day livings and institutions for the elderly and to address the costs of the needed changes and improvements in housing used for the elderly. By the provisional regulations of the law on the affairs of the elderly, the elderly's management fund is given a warrant for the survival of funds from the fund in order to cover the high cost of nursing staff for the elderly. The provision was adopted in 2010 and was first valid for 2011's 2011 budget. This law has been valid for one year and has been renewed on the budget of each year since. The government's budget is planned to renew it for the next five years. It is thus permitted to protect the elderly'funds from the fund at a rate of 895 million. K. As suggested, in 2019 the provisional principle will be extended. Based on Iceland's traditional Laboratory, over the next 40 years there will be a growing number of elderly people. For more than double the elderly at that time, the prophecy assumes that they will be at the end of the elderly some 90 thousand. As the elderly grow in numbers, the financial needs of the funds can be expected to grow evenly, so it is necessary to stop paying the cost of nursing from the fund. By increasing carbon costs, the government wants to send a clear message to consumers, professionals, and investors that it produces results and pays to invest in machines and equipment that reduce carbon dioxide emissions. That's good and blessed, but is the increase the bill expects enough to do? It must be answered, and the government must show black people how to add wood so that it can be possible for the public, job drivers, and investors to use eco-efficiency tools and equipment. The question is also discussed as to whether governments really are dealing with their climate - related plan. The newly published government plan for climate change has now received an additional title: version 1. This is understandable, since there is very little in the plan for quantity and time - consuming goals on how much emissions are to be reduced and when it should be completed. The plan even says so. that diesel and fuel trucks should be stopped in 2030, but there is no comment on the location in 2025. If Iceland negotiates with the European Union on emissions by 40%, emissions in the first year of the Paris Convention should be 40% lower than in 2016, 2017 and 2018. As a result, it is imperative that Iceland's population no longer buy large and waste - consuming cars if the emissions of linearly are reduced from transport, agriculture and seas, industrial and waste by 40%, and energy exchanges are easily working with powerful infrastructures. Given the current total emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide emissions will need to be reduced by over 120,000 tons per year for the next 12 years to meet the international commitments of Iceland. Both positive and negative economic incentives are needed to reach the goal. The government doesn't seem to know enough about this. The bill expects an extension of preliminary regulations that will not make money from a total insurance fee in 2019. According to law No, a previous labour fund has pointed out that contributions to the fund have to be raised to a value of 0.05 percent of the estimated insurance markets set out in 2018. 60/2012, as well as a service contract between the Ministry of Health and ACTIVE. The first part of my study wants to draw attention to it and highlights the agreement between government and government. Under this opinion, we write two, the one here and the other. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u24	A respectable president. We've got a 2nd over here. bill to correct regional transport law change, No. 160/2011, with subsequent changes. I'm moving it here. A work committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Dr. Hrund Pétursdóttir, Hermann Sæmundsson and Ólafur Kr.. Strategiesson of the Hjörleifsson of Transport and Civil Affairs, The Aðalsteinn Óskarsson of the Fourth Amendment of the Western Union and Hlynur Gauti Sigurðsson on behalf of the Lands Association of Forest owners. The bill suggests that the length of a regional transport law would be prolonged and value in 2025, while existing legislation would be otherwise derived from the end of 2020. Furthermore, the values of the law are suggested to be expanded so that they also cover the production of horticultural farmers that grow fruit, flowers, and vegetables and fully produce them in commercial packaging, as their production falls under a particular category of the ISAT2008 standard. It is then suggested that the minimum duration of production from 245 to 150 miles is reduced. There are many areas, or settlements. This is how all Westerns, e.g. Inside, both Hólmavík and Rhool, and others. There's something going on about it. In addition, the bill makes it clear that if a robust application exceeds budgets, the building office may reduce the proportion of sustained applications, but if sustained applications remain lower than the financial level may increase the proportion. Lately, the amount of money that has been available has not completely worked out, but now it will change, and it will be possible to bend it so that all the money will be used. This is suggested to ensure full use of funding. Regarding the subject, we noted that deforestation is an increasing branch in this country that best be used according to the laws. The products of wood such as this do not fall under the standards of the law, but the products that have been removed from them may fall there, such as the products that are made of wood, such as curl and burns and more, but the raw heat does not fall under it. The committee points out that the bill is extending the force of the law and is reserved for provision each year. The Commission concluded that it is possible to further check whether forest development is possible and also need to check the European Union's regulations, which place certain restrictions on these topics. The committee suggests a word change at the c-axis of 3.g. the bill to make it clear that the costs of the Agency are referred to. It is also suggested that the subject be added to the bill's headline. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Instead of the words, and the agency, and, "The Organization of the Bible, in verses 1 and 2, " c-joints 3. gr. Come on: the Agency; and: the Agency. 2. The bill's headline is as follows: Cells to adjust laws on regional transport, No. 160/2011, with subsequent changes (values and prolongation of time). Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir was absent from the case. However, Njáll is considered to be in accordance with authority at 4 mgr. 18th Friðbertsson. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was meeting the committee as an officer of the hearing and is acceptable to this opinion. Under these publications, Director Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Director Ásmundur Friðriksson Kristoff, Inga Sæland, Elíasdóttir Friedbjörður Elisdóttir, Sigurdón Jónsson, Ásmundurksson, Kollin Kolbeinn Proppé, and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A prominent historian, the Halla Sign of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, why. A senator for history. There's one thing I'd like to think about, that's about the height, i.e. total funding for this transport transfer. The report is presented in 2 mg. in Section 2 that financing for these transporters has never been completed. First of all, maybe. A senator explains how much has been new, or rather, how much has not been new? Second, does that not suggest that these non-employment concentrations are of little importance? Then I'd like to hear from you too. Senator on impact assessment. This article will be discussed in paragraph 6. It seems to me that there is no attempt to evaluate it. How much of the new class being installed into the transport system will be taken to heart by the total volume? Have you come to realize if this will remain within the current budget in that it will not impair the rights of the people they now have or what it is like to think? [[The president calls.]] What Is the Real Food? That's not really true.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u26	A respectable president. As far as I'm concerned, the pot has sometimes gone completely out, if we can call this pot, but sometimes it has been up to 30% left in it. That's exactly what I asked, and the amount is equal to 200,000 euros and comes from the European Union. To help reach that point, it is suggested that the entire pot be used either if too many applications come, you can lower each allowance or raise it to apply the pot. It hasn't been allowed so far. But I believe that by specifically reducing the distance from two hundred miles to a hundred miles, there are a lot more people being taken in, so I think this may be useful to a lot more people. But whether a special survey or an assessment of what this would mean is particularly important to gardeners who work their products at home and place them in consumer packages. They haven't fallen under this until now. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u27	Mr. President. Hv. A senator spoke of the total financial height that everyone has divided, mentioning that she had rarely gone up to the roof. In fact, the report makes it clear that there has never been a complete use of funding. But what I can't quite control, and it seems to me that we do both at the same time, is that we remember the radius that needs to be met, and we significantly increase those who can enjoy the strength, but that will lead to those who come new into the system getting something less than everyone will get. I wondered, " Is it really a good thing to sort things out that way? ' If, on the other hand, people believe that these transporters are important, it seems to me that there are reducing transport concentrations to more people than increasing them to fewer. So I'm just wondering if the tourists in the bill and the supporters correctly understood what this case might mean.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u28	A respectable president. I think there's always a need to be there, and even though we're reducing the radius and the number of producers that can collect this, we're a little tied up by the budget. By setting this up so that if it hasn't fully benefited from it, I don't think that we'll worry that the pot won't be used here, this bill will be a law. But I'm sure there's a few less powers that have used it but that are farther away, just like Langanei or the West. We received a review of the Fourth Amendment of the Western Union. They were quite satisfied with this change, thinking that others would be able to use it. They pointed out that we should rather look for ways to increase this strength or expand it so that more people can pick it up. We are naturally dependent on gang swings because the amount is in euros. Then the question is, Is it not a concern? The assessment of this effect is not available. But we certainly would have to review it when this is done and see how it's going to come out. If so, we may need to take a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u29	Mr. President. I'm not opposed because this case, because it is a certain environment that has been established and has not been fully consistent with the variety of productions, especially in remote areas. The law is being extended to 2025, who would otherwise fail in 2020. This is done after a good study of the EEA agreement. They thought it wasn't possible at the time, but this is now an example of flexibility in the EEA Convention. As one realizes that certain areas are more sensitive and find themselves struggling to live up to the level of competition, there is an effort to maintain a certain principle of competition. It is the thought that embraces the law set in its own time, 2011, as I recall. V.E.G. The President may remember better than I do. Faraway settlements are being met. I want to draw it out. It matters to us to say that we are going to preserve our country, but we are not going to decide which sectors will survive. We will try to help those who are tried, often out of weakness, to build up on certain areas, space to do so. That's why I think it's a positive step for me to have extended the values of the law on production, including The production of garden farmers, which grow e.g. Fruits, flowers, and so on. But, of course, all such restrictions, rules, always raise questions. Why should we be doing this? We have to be able to say why we're doing this. Hence, it was a welcome opportunity to go through it on the committee. There have been some questions. In many respects, I felt that there was an answer to my doubts in this regard. It is clear that the roof we would not cross is not being covered, which is about to remind me of 200,000 euros, because that's when we were talking about government grants, which would go against the EEA agreement. It matters to us when we change that this is in accordance with the setting and frames of the EEA Convention, the importance of the agreement - which I hope will continue and be valid, and the government will not go some way to undermine, or least the Independence Party. But there's another story that could extend the discussion and use the 17 minutes I have left to talk about the importance of the EEA contract. However, this is a transpiration process. about the bill to correct the change in regional transport law, which is important to go through and ask certain questions. I felt that my doubts were being answered. They are much like the one Jón Steindór Valdimarsson was. Thirteenth. We're out of here. and the restoration, of the past, matters that this was taken into account. But then there's another fun thing to do. There was no way of taking vegan farmers, but that's what they're doing now. Forest farmers have rightly pointed out that the forest is an increasing branch, and I think it will grow even more in the coming years, even when we promote environmental issues, i.e. What we need is a climate program, and what we need to meet. It may well be that people are even more active, especially in remoter areas, where we are trying to reach out for this bill. I support the thinking and main subject of this bill and thank you for the review of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u30	President. As the president came in, I recommend here the employment committee's committee's committee's Committee on bill to legalize the laws of veterinary surgeons and health care of animals, which are useful to animals - then veterinarians, not animals. I grew up with accounts of a respected veterinarian, Dagfinnur Dalfin, who spoke animal language and could speak with monkeys, apes, double heads, and good if not a petite, but I guess that's not the case in real life, and that's why we've had to keep this rule. By law today, veterinary surgeons of all professions must possess Icelandic expertise. However, the situation has been that at certain jobs, especially in slaughterhouses, animal doctors have not been employed, so animal doctors have had to be hired who do not have Icelandic knowledge. This bill for law from the highest. Even if the government does not have legal authority in the Icelandic language, it is granted that certain jobs may be performed by a veterinarian. Kind of an exception to Icelandic expertise. The committee discussed the matter and brought in a number of delegates from the Ministry, the Farmers' Association, Iceland's Animal Medical Association and Food Institute. There were reviews from Iceland's Farms Association, Iceland's Animal Medical Association, and Þorkelsson and Jarle Reiersen. The fact that veterinary surgeons were a little worried about this matter is hardly the case, Mr. President. So I'll just talk straight and I'll tell you what I'll do. Work committee to do that - I hope I'm not saying too much about others except my own - that animal doctors, remuneration, negotiations, and employment status are needed. Actually, their entire group of litigation needs to be examined. However, this adjustment in the law does not take over, normal. We're just talking about a very specific factor. Prominently, it is recognized by a professional body. President. The bill suggests that the 5th mg. Section 6. current law that veterinary surgeons in public service have power in the Icelandic language It's suggested in Article one. the bill that if such skills are deemed necessary in the job, the need for this information must be made according to the National Competent Authority. There is the opinion of the emissary of the Generals No. 9510/2017 reports that it is not legal to agree with the Food Organization to operate out of control animal doctors who are not in charge of Icelandic control. So the bill is suggested that there be room for animal doctors to be given without compromising laws. Commenting on the case of the committee, it was said that it would be necessary for veterinarians in public employment to have power in the Icelandic language. There was also a concern about the work of veterinary surgeons in this country, that their work was under great stress, and that only about half of newly graduated veterinarians abroad returned to Iceland. The treatment of animals also referred to an overall review of animal veterinarians and health care laws, and it was urgent that this work be continued. The Commission takes into account the progress of this work, taking into account the viewpoints as reflected in the bill reviews and reviews of animal diseases and animal doctors by October 2017. President. There's been an assessment of the position I covered here very lightly at the beginning of my case. The report of October 2017 contains suggestions and excellent analyses of the situation. Hv. The employment committee recommends that work be accelerated at the environment review and based on this report. To make use of the work already done, you do not have to start from the start. On the other hand, the committee believes that a food clinic must be able to hire veterinarians so that they can perform their legitimate role in monitoring. Other areas in which workers have been needed from abroad and have included: A surgeon will determine when a work permit is granted to a healthcare professional whether to require knowledge in Icelandic language. The committee feels that it is important for those under supervision to understand the case of those in charge of the operation and that the committee is obliged to be successful in introducing national animal doctors and regulations as laid down in the regulations set out in the law. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. This is Kolbein you're Óttarsson Páll. Friðbertsson Rafney Inga Ásmundur Sæland how Signý Kristjánsdóttir Albertína Friðbjörg Jónsson Elíasdóttir. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir was absent from the case. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was meeting the committee as an officer of the hearing and is acceptable to this opinion. President. It is my hope that the employment committee will be encouraged to the highest level. The minister of the seminary will first be assigned to the work as outlined below for an overall review of animal doctors' affairs. It is my personal opinion that when the fact is that only half of Icelandic vets return from study, they just need to sit well over and see what seats are. As considered in my opinion, and I only came to the same room, the situation has been that it has been difficult for humans to get into positions, especially during haystacktime. Thus, the advice of veterinary surgeons, who do not really have legal authority, has been against the law. An agent of the Generals has pointed out this. So here we are giving Food Organization the authority to manage these facilities when necessary. That doesn't change the fact that we feel that it is important to do what is right. The employment board, as mentioned in the bill, understands the cases of those who are in charge of the surveillance programme and, in addition to those in the country working, from where they come from, the Icelandic law and the rules will be introduced. President. As mentioned in the Committee, for example. surgeons, such as these, can be given leave to foreign health care professionals. It was also discussed on the committee, and personally I believe that since this warrant is available by the surgeon, it should just as well be available when it comes to health care for animals. So this is the opinion of the committee, a respectable president. We suggest that the bill be passed on, and I reiterate our encouragement to the highest level. Minister for review of this suitor.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u31	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér's story. Maybe I'll have a little snooping of what he said. This is of great importance, and we have found it, both when I was in the Ministry last year and even more so today, when the vets came before the committee, that they are under a lot of pressure. It simply needs some Icelandic veterinary surgeons. This report, submitted in October 2017, needs to be carefully reviewed regarding the revision of animal diseases, definitely. I understand their fear of compromising the demands of Icelandic knowledge. But I have to say, we're supposed to invite all the vets who want to come and work here and we're supposed to do it so that we'll tell them how the Icelandic law and the Icelandic rule work. This is an experience where a food clinic can employ foreign animal doctors, especially during the haystacking season when pressures are intense. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me that it is not being changed, it is still opening up to hire foreign vets on these jobs, and whether he agrees with me also that it is not only a reexamination of animal diseases based on the report but also a general review of the work of veterinary surgeons, not only Icelandic, but those who work with veterinarians at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u32	President. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. Senator. This is really not changing anything. Not only is it still open, but the opening is made legally. The opening has actually been an obstacle to law so far because of the requirement for it to be a requirement for Icelandic knowledge. Therefore, the employment of the Food Agency on animal doctors during a slaughter season has actually been an obstacle to the law, as the World Council's agent shows. I wholeheartedly agree, and that's why I brought it up in my history, and we also make it clear in the Commission opinion, that this review needs to be reviewed, and that it should be based on exactly what we have considered. I agree with you, too. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter about a large part of what needs to be considered is the remuneration. This applies not only to veterinary surgeons who are born in Iceland or who have a language in Iceland or who have learned it but only to all veterinary surgeons who come here to work. I mentioned earlier in my story that half of the vets do not return home from school. I don't know what the ratio is. We live in a global world, and it's only natural if people learn somewhere and decide to become involved. But this is a high ratio and I think it's normal to sit over it and wonder why it's like that. I think it's normal to settle over why it's changed, why it's difficult to meet the need for veterinarians, but before the arrangement was changed through districts and other such things, I understand. This is what I think we have to look at, unless we don't really have to start at the beginning. All of this has been examined in a review of these factors. As I mentioned at the beginning of my history, the committee learned about this in much of the way it is a work document. There I support veterinary surgeons to look fully at their profession, no matter what they may speak. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u33	Mr. President. You have to admit honestly that it's a good thing to come up to the counter after a while. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, who only agree with him once in his affairs. I'm glad to hear that he agrees with me in that it takes special attention to all the animal doctors who choose to serve here in Iceland, whether they are Icelandic or foreign, and that the approach is to take better care of their work environment and take it seriously, whether it has a reference to the report or not. I'd like to add to what I also believe is that the Minister of Education must work together with members of Congress and have been my hobby for more than ten years, and a little bit, but it's about to set up a zoological education here, the first stage, a BS in cooperation with Innunk, whether we're together with the Havanneys and the University of Iceland. But anyway, I'll see that this is something you can do in cooperation with Honney, Iceland's University, the law and start a serious BS course at home. I know a bunch of vets have that checked out. I think it's really important that I am not only that the current food supply needs it but also because of the future interest. I am convinced that we will go to an even further search for food production, whether it is in part in the development of sheep products, as well as in the milk field, so I come to it. I agree specifically with what. A senator on the salary. It is not unexploited that certain groups designed to form BHM are asking that education be evaluated for pay. When you see how the environment is developing, it is understandable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u34	A respectable president. It's good to be glad. A senator. I want us to be as happy as most of us. If this had been the rule of 19th - century Icelandic bakers, the first bakery in Eggert Dietrich Proppé would clearly not have been established in Hafnarfjörður and I was not standing here. That's my great-great-grandfather. I have, for example, come on in both a talk and a publication, earlier, which I think has made the senator especially happy, that we live in such a world that just as we naturally believe we are moving abroad or our children, to work and work, it is as normal for others to do so and to move home. Me and what. A senator agrees on the need for a review. I thought the requirement for her was quite loud and reasonable. So I'm going to be honest here again, because here we're dealing with a very critical aspect that just turns around to get the law so that our whole system can be run in a slaughter season, a man in the coverage that there's a bigger case down there that needs to be dealt with. And I'm going to be honest by saying that I'd like to have done it here in this passage. Sadly, though, that may not have happened now. Rather, it is important to take this review, so I feel that it is so important that the committee has met to encourage a minister to do so, and especially to refer to a controversial report. In the case of veterinary studies and future development, I must agree completely. Senator. I think there's a future and many opportunities there. I agree with that. A senator about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u35	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. The prominent writer of this committee's view is excellent history and clear language. Here we are dealing with a matter of full interest and a measure of animal care, part of it, all over the country. As most of us know, there are multitudes of very good animal doctors, people from all parts of the world, who have indeed improved our community and have added much and good to our culture. The main element of this bill is to create a change in Article 6. The law in which there is an undisputed requirement for the Icelandic expertise of veterinary surgeons in public service. Rather, it would be proper to accept a requirement if such skills are deemed necessary in the work. This situation is under way, and it can be said that in itself nothing is changing. There are a number of procedures and activities. It's been hard to hire veterinarians. The irreprehensible requirement for speaking in the English language is not practical, and we have not been able to live up to it. There's a lot of stress in animal doctors, and in certain times, as we've seen in the past, people have had to be rescued and hired from abroad. We're a little used to thinking that when people speak foreign, they're usually Danish and English, but they're not just the case. Many farmers who have had to deal extensively with veterinary surgeons have scratched their head when they have received medical proof and reference in Spanish or Ukrainian or some other language that is very foreign to most of us. Then this work may not come back. This is something we need to examine. But I think this is just a good step we take here. The sources are being opened. However, we need to work on this, so that understanding and benefit from this service are sure to exist. What man has to offer and benefits to the animals must be understood as well. It's an excellent commission with this, and I'm just gonna grab on to it. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ A discussion of the matter in the Committee showed that it was necessary for veterinarians in public employment to have power in the Icelandic language. There was also a concern about the work of veterinary surgeons in this country, that their work was under great stress, and that only about half of newly graduated veterinarians abroad returned to Iceland. The treatment of animals also referred to an overall review of animal veterinarians and health care laws and the need for this work to continue. This has been shown both in talks and in comments and in the letters of 1st. on this matter, there is good reason to be concerned about the working environment of veterinary surgeons. Someone has to work there. But we must naturally welcome all who want to come and work in our society and participate in it, working with us to make progress. In this sector, as well as in all others, we need to be careful and make a clear frame. But they need to be realistic. We need to be able to apply them. I agree that we need to look more closely at these laws and the environment of veterinary surgeons. I think it's very useful for us. I'm not aware of the normal rate of newly graduated veterinary surgeons returning home. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppé of the natural world so that people just sit down where they're convenient. There's no rule about that. I don't know. I mean, I'm just thinking about getting a vet study here. It's fascinating. If we could make it work, it would probably be a positive step, and I assume that we would even get students from abroad who would see an opportunity to settle here. Then people would also have a better chance of taking Icelandic and using it in their jobs. I certainly hope we need more animal doctors in the future. I want to see Iceland's foodland grow and thrive, that we use our resources, use our resources, and build on more food production. Here we live in a healthy, good environment where we're all capable of producing more. But then there's nowhere to be left in surveillance and in the safety and safety of consumers and animal equipment. That's where veterinary surgeons come in strong. But the veterinarians also need to be able to speak with the animal shepherds, the farmers, and others and to produce reports and comments that are clearly understood by everyone. I'd like to thank the Committee and like this step we're taking here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u36	V.E.G. President. I recommend here to the Committee to conduct a bill to correct a change in horses export law, No. 27/2011, with subsequent changes (a charge to the stock fund) from a greater part of the work programme. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Elísabet Anna Jónsdóttir's daughter from the Ministry of prose and innovation, Sigurður Eyþórsson on behalf of Iceland's Baving Association, Sveinn Steinarsson of the Society of Horse Prayer and Gunnar Arnarson and Kristbjörg Eyvindsdóttir. The bill suggests a change in the law on the export of horses, which includes a charge for each exported horse rising from 1,500 k. of 3,500 K. It is also suggested that the fee be reassigned in order to replace Iceland's Farmer's National Fund. An article on the case of the committee received comments on the arrangement, as is the case, as is the case. for the distribution of the fund, and for the stock, and for the money of the money. They were referred to, e.g. that the tax could be dropped considerably and at the same time, the stock could not be paid solely for exported horses. The greater part suggests that changes will be considered in consultation with the workers in this article, but it recommends that the bill be agreed to develop the fund to cope with its project, to give strength to developing and research projects in horse culture. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir was absent from the case. However, Njáll is considered to be in accordance with authority at 4 mgr. Trausti Friðbertsson. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. In addition to such publications, why not do so? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson. To say this, I'd like to mention that when this case and the preceding issue came before the committee, I thought it was a small matter, just something about the Icelandic skills of veterinary surgeons, and a couple of crowns from horsemen. In progress at the Committee, this came up, especially the language discussed earlier, on the Icelandic expertise of veterinary surgeons. And this case of horse export is in my mind a bigger issue than that there's only about $3,500 for a horse in a export as one on the other side of the ocean actually pays off. It is about our extracurricular development as a nation on the culture of the Icelandic horse, and we need to keep our arms around it, as well as on veterinary surgeons. We must show Icelandic animals the respect that their culture is well enjoyed and that the matter has been very well discussed in many places, but these isolated cases deal with both education and so on. This is a growing problem with English. Since there is a greater need, animal doctors are provided outside, especially around a time of slaughter, and this is accompanied by a problem of communication. Many young people go to school and do not return to their homes. It is a great task, then, that we, the politicians, and the Icelandic nation take care of both of them. Often, a small one rolls down heavy loads, that is true of this matter, such as anything we discuss here, which weighs in varying degrees of weight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the history and the opinion of the committee. I must admit that I agree with him. When these matters first came in, I thought it was a small matter. Still, I became a little curious, but when the case was being measured, I could not ask them. And maybe it's unfair that I'm asking the head of the committee and all right if he can't answer it, but I wondered about the need for us to be over something called the root shelter. I'm not going to have a lot of opinion on whether to charge $1,500. 3500 k. when you're taking out a horse that's about to go into this fund. I wondered if the fund as such had something to do with the committee and its need.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u38	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his answer. Yes, it was. I can't remember how old the stock shelter is, 25 years old or so. There had been a request for an increase in this price since 2015. It was discussed in the Committee that this may not be the role of politicians, and I don't think so very much of it. Then came the statement mentioned in the committee opinion, i.e. Why is this taken only by horses in exported? Why is it not taken from all the horses listed? Then the price can be lowered. A lot of discussion came up and opened my eyes to the fact that this little matter is considerably larger than I thought. I haven't thought of how I feel about who should handle this. That's the way it is today, but we're calling this to be revised, and I guess there'll be some subsequent adjustments. I hope there's something I can answer to the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Maybe it's just this. When I first read the bill, it struck me, I had no idea there was such a treasure. When you get in here at the council and start reading through some bills, I don't talk about the financial bill or anything else, there are all kinds of things that you just didn't know existed. My emphasis primarily points to the fact that when such issues arise, I feel that there is good reason to consider the purpose. He may have been good at first, and then all he has to do is go over it. Is he still? Is there still good reason to have such a fund and collect that fee into the fund? When I started using the Internet and looking for these things, I see that this fund has supported a number of needs and privileges. We've been talking a little bit about innovation and the importance of innovation in this room. And I have always emphasized that such an environment is simple and clear. We often tend to develop funds here and there, and then time is taken and there is difficulty in giving advice to people who are going to get some money, where to go. Wait a minute. A senator apologizes that these were so more speculations about the value of the fund and the value of such funds in general and whether what we went to 25 years ago, when this fund was founded, is necessarily correct. At any rate, it is now being modified by moving it away from the local community. Then it goes into the treasure of the kingdom, and out of the treasure of the kingdom. I understand that the community is still in charge of extramarital care if I get it right. All I have to say is that I think there's a reason for us to do this regularly. There are certain things that can be cleaned up in our legal environment and, especially, in our supportive work environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u40	V.E.G. President. Yeah, there's a lot of things you don't know about when you start working at the General. I've been working considerably less than what I needed. Senator. This stock fund is thought of as a fund to promote the growth of the Icelandic horse and to advertise it for export and breeding. I don't think that's a good thing, and I don't think it's a reason to come ashore with that. It was noted in the Committee that there is not a complete agreement on how the distribution takes place. It is more inside - room affairs for the breeders of horses, and I encourage them to join hands and act in the way they divide this fund and how it is being accomplished. This is far more likely to work than a conflict about it. Like other farms, horse farms often do things, but holding hands is the most successful thing to do. As I'm saying, it's the best thing to do in my mind, but it's a matter of reevaluation, as mentioned in the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the past, especially what he brings to the attention, that certainly we have one case at the council, all of which are normal in the air with, crazy cases, the fishing fees, about The only thing we're completely at odds with, even me and him. Senator, we don't feel the same way there. Neither are I and the rest of the committee, and I see the Chairman in the hall smiling. Then there are other issues that we will agree more with. They continued to be discussed, and they are large and small. In advance, you may realize that they are not too extensive. Then it changes with the Commission coverage, and much becomes apparent. We discussed veterinary surgeons earlier, and I agree with the proposed change. We've talked about transport eviction, which would certainly have been permitted to revise. I think the change now is reasonable, but it doesn't stop because that may have been a matter of reevaluation, but the change is right at this point. Then comes this bill about a change in the law on eviction of horses. I'm a big talker for horse growers, and I strongly support and export horses, especially. It has been progressively divided over the years, has been somewhat stable in recent years, and has also gone from one to the other. After we started allowing stalls to be exported, it was only natural that the demand in this country began to fall, but out in Europe, foreign gymnasiums, big and great, whether in Germany, Sweden, Denmark, the United States, and mostly in Europe, began to develop their own culture. Still, there is a blessed demand for our race here and in our culture, which has been during the past 15 to520 years. Naturally, all those who attend the national conventions home will see that we are very proud of them. Then comes the export of horses. I'd like to draw out that I'm a protagonist of the study of horse culture. I think it's important because we have a unique stock that even came. past the visitors who came to see us on the committee. How important it is that there be room and opportunity to continue to do so! According to the committee, this too involves an increase in tax. It's not much, they're leaving 1500 bucks. At 3,500, but I don't think this is a good time. Although the amount is not high, I feel that the increase is not right at this point, especially because the matter is controversial. At the time, it was reasonable and easily reasonable to conclude that this fund was justified, Mr. President. It was very natural to understand, but then the government changed. Laws change, including has come a law on public financial matters. Many changes have been made in this area and in other ways. is not the great loneliness that has, in fact, been in fact, among the horse farmers, especially foreigners. That's why I think it's time to stop at this point. It is true that the price no longer goes directly to Iceland's Farmer Association but goes to the state's fund and goes straight back to the Farming Association. Is that true? Does this law apply to public financial matters, or is it simply because of which individuals are involved? I have serious doubts about this. I was thinking about other things too. Industrial pay reminds me that it has been dropped more than ten years ago. Why doesn't the article just take care of it for yourself, but why does a man of the horse not agree to take his own dues, establish an arrangement without using the government, the middle of the government? These are the tips I want to convey. Why don't they do this for themselves and earmarks in research as well? Of course, the community can do the same. I'm a supportive woman who continued to study and other things, but I thought that was a serious comment for the committee that tells us to stop. We're not supposed to go on with this. I also think that the horse breeders and the Farmers would do well to consider whether any of the granting requests that went to the fund are right today because I want much rather to study, not necessarily a book edition. I think it's a princely debate that any profession will benefit from merely seizing into and discussing which avenues are the best means to strengthen research and other links to their work, in this case, the horse industry. I'm not in this situation, so I'm a little opposed. I would like to have seen this stopped and encouraged a group of horses, whether there is no other, more modern, and more powerful way to go without the government being used to raise taxes on the horse export. Even if the sum is not too high, the increase is relative. They're leaving 1500 bucks. of 3,500 K. which is a relatively large change. Although the cost has not gone up for years, it just gives us reason to stop, listen to critical voices in the article, and ask if such a application can be applied to modern legislation, such as the laws on public finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I'm glad to talk to you. A senator for horses in us as well as on the outside. [["Precise yourselves in us.]] Because of what? A senator only introduced the role of the fund, research, publishing, and other matters I would like to ask. A senator about it - because here is actually just again, much like the case we were going over earlier, i.e. This is not going to be a complete review of the legal environment of this group. Rather, it is a very large - scale case that turns to the amount and collects - whether at any time. A senator believes that it is possible to complete this matter and then go to some general review or assessment of how the funds are handled. We got hit. Work committees are an excellent overview of the budget's financial resources, and there are many needs. Then I'd like to go somewhere else to ask. A senator only goes to the price itself. Because here, as I've understood, the thought has been that growing up this sought-after Icelandic horse population is some kind of cooperation between all of us, especially the horse owners. When they sell horses out of the country, they're having the cooperation, so it's not unusual for the buyer to pay this price to set up this fund, i.e. not the seller who pays it but the buyer. That's what I'm talking about. A member of the Prince versus that thought?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u43	Mr. President. I'll be looked right, and I'm going to say, looking right into my care, that I'm generally against tax increases, and that's what happened at the job conference that this is a tax raise. Of course, you can finish the case and then review it, so that it is said, well. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. Of course we can and just say, " Let's finish this thing and move on with it. ' I think the situation is right now, so instead of raising the cost, especially in terms of government financial legislation, which I think this bill might be somewhat at odds with, there is reason to pause, although a greater proportion of the counselees may decide to run the case through. That's one of those little things, which is still a prince's case. This is different from the case we discussed earlier on the transfer charge and transport balance because it is not an increase, but we are expanding it for those who can apply to a particular fund while here it is simply laying a spell on a horse prayer. Well to mark, those who export are common horse breeders. Especially are those who are moving out that we can thank for maintaining a magnificent Icelandic horse population with all their colors, including new color forms, such as those in the past three years. Now we're at least To get one new colour into the horse culture. Then I think, however, instead of going to the point of raising the price - I would consider, Mr. President, incredibly fine if you could get to answer without someone being spoken like that...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u44	The president wishes to be silent while the speakers speak. I give the senator a little longer because of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll just get better into it afterwards, but, as I say, it's possible, of course, to finish it. But this is, in my opinion, a considerable rise, relative increase, from 1,500 bucks. of 3,500 K. and this is why we take it a little slow and see if there are any ways in which we can build up horses and study in ways other than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u46	A respectable president. I noticed why. A senator did not look at me when I was talked about raising taxes, knowing why. A senator who is that I'm not shy about raising taxes, I view taxes as the common price we pay for our community service and our sharing. I haven't necessarily considered this a tax raise, and it helps us understand why. A senator, perhaps. I'm a long time from believing that I've always been right, but, as if I only came in in in in my previous opponent, I've seen it as a price for buyers, foreign buyers. In other words, it lays on the market price. I cut it after a while. A senator spoke of the price of horse growers, since there is a difference between whether the horse breeders themselves or foreign buyers pay. Speaking of the horse breeders themselves, Mr. President, it may be helpful to point out that the idea of an increase or wish comes from them and is accepted on their social foundations over and over for a few years. So the union groups that the horse breeders have to do with their lawsuits have called after themselves, without me saying it, but rarely is it that an association calls for self - promotions. Therefore, it has strengthened me rather in the belief that this is not necessarily a tax raise on the horse importers but a price on foreign buyers to enjoy the quality of the Icelandic horse population. It is worth another Mass again to discuss whether it is right or wrong and how we should have this arrangement for protection. [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what I wanted to draw out and hear. A senator passes over a little bit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u47	Mr. President. Absolutely right. I'm not going to hide that the organization itself has waited and called for this rise. There is also a baloney disagreement, as shown at the committee meeting with it. There's big and big horse importers who don't like this too. But whatever happens, and you're absolutely right, I'll say the word. A senator with regard to community responsibility that if taxes are spent wisely in basic needs and education systems, welfare systems, etc., nobody should be ashamed to pay taxes. I think we agree on that in general. Then it becomes clear that it has formerly been accepted that other professions have used the public funds and the administrative means to recall or collect expenses. I'll put a question mark on it. Is it the right way to do this in the modern administration, that we're paying them for jobs in this way? As shown in a meeting, including. By our certain guests, they see it as a tax increase. You can say: It is now the foreigners who pay. A question as well as a question about such an attitude. It says there's an extra charge for those who carry out horses. This is an additional barrier for them, no matter what they say, to sell their great goods. I would like to know if this is okay and in line with the official financial law and also that I feel that the government is an exchange agent for professional interests in this. That's why I have my doubts, and they're just pretty serious in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u48	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A fine talk was given to Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. I decided that the senator was talking about staying when this matter arose on the committee; I also thought it would be time to pause and not be involved. Especially after a discussion with the Committee about this increase of taxes and why the state was using it as an intermediate and so on. After a discussion, I found out that you wanted to keep this matter alive, to continue this fund with the urge to work on strengthening it and finding new ways. The Senator asked in his talk: "Why don't you see the article on this for yourself? I thought she was opposed to what she was doing. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér is offering some kind of explanation. How does that make the senator feel? Do the senator see any way in which the article would handle this for himself?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u49	Mr. President. I'd rather have preferred, precisely because of this, instead of going to this change now, take this step, actually go in a single tax rise of the matter, a pay raise, that work had been started to look at exactly these factors that I'm talking about: view the law on public finances, can the story itself, in what way, put this on all the horses that are sold, all the colts, or can go other ways? I have no doubt that this article itself has certain ideas about it. I just want to let her decide. I have my doubts now, and most of all, I want to take a good look. I stress that I respect the history of this fund. It was important at the time, but I think we've reached a turning point in which we should take not only this step to raise the tax but much more to stop and say to the article: Would you like to take a closer look at this matter, my friends. There is an inunification among immigrants on this matter, and I think that there is a very good reason for the government to stop and ask ourselves, " Am I going the right way, the modern way, and the way in which we believe to be legal? ' Is it? I reiterate the question: Is this matter under government law? Besides, I have my natural doubts about this increase of taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for this answer, and in fact, I don't disagree with her in these spray visions, these thoughts of hers. I was just saying that I didn't want to stop it because we were looking for some kind of change even if we were going on this trip. I don't really have any more to say, just thank you. A senator for the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u51	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you too. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson, a council member of the Northwestern district for history. I completely understand his doubts, and I also understand the view of just wanting to continue the case now and then it will be revised. I would have liked to see it another way. I would also have wanted members of the Independence Party to stop and ask themselves questions about the princes who are all there and can be asked in this matter, which is not huge, but it's good to be careful whether this is in line with what I've been pointing out, whether it's right to increase the cost of this level instead of going into revision, whether this is going to work, and is in harmony with the law on public financial and modern government. These are my depressions, and I'm sticking to the fact that I'd like this case to be resolved, and I'd like it to be paid off myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u52	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank the head of the committee in this matter for its excellent history and review. Here we will discuss a bill to correct a change in horses export law, with subsequent changes, a fee to the stock protection fund. As we have seen in the discussions, people view this treasure, their extramarital care, and their lack of perspective. Whether we are talking about taxes or taxes or how it is interpreted does not agree. I'm not going to go into an analysis of how the senators look at things, so we're better off being different and not looking at things the same way. If I grab a little bit of the bill's entrance, the point is to suggest a change of 6. the law on the export of horses. The bill is made up at the prosecuting and innovation department in accordance with the motion offered by Iceland's National Institutes of Farms. The bill means that a price for each exported horse goes up from a hundred thousand dollars [1,500 C.E.]. of 3,500 K. There's a view that increasing cost will change something into export. I can't see 2,000 bucks. On top of a horse's price, and all that comes with an export of one horse or more horses changes everything in that context. I understand that this would be the case. It's not to see that there's a lot of nonsense in the world, like a whale. A senator spoke up, even though some do not agree with the approach. It's worked on social foundations, and a horse breeder's organization likes to have things like this. I don't think it's unusual that we look at how people want to see things in there. If we consider the money's work assignment, it is of great interest and is a number of projects that are available. If I get it right, they'll pay the buyers a price that brings the horse out and it's usually people who live in places other than Iceland that pay for the fund. They clearly benefit because much of the funds in the fund have gone to Hóla in Hjalta Valley. There has been a lot of money, and the natural home of the Icelandic horse. There is extensive research, and there is also an extravagance of the publication of material on the Icelandic horse that bears his husk. We have a very remarkable animal here. Icelandic farms are about many special features, and all of us know the qualities of the Icelandic horse, its varied colors, and its gang structure. So it is important that we protect the Icelandic horse and have made money a scholarship to students and be supported by innovations and projects, positive and good. At the same time, we are strengthening Icelandic agriculture because horse farming is part of Icelandic agriculture. We need to make good use of the land, and we need to make use of it. You have to mow and fight for your horses. If I hit a few tests and goes over what the money's been through in 2012, there's been a study of the Icelandic horse's physics at the University of Hólar. At the National Farm University of Iceland in Innunia, it was the location of the country's origin in the international culture of Icelandic horses. Also, it is the laboratory center for the people who were assigned to studies the development of gamma herpes infections in the horses. In 2013 there were at least two distributions, a training physics study on the Icelandic horse at the University of Hólar, and an objective assessment of the movement and footwearing of the Icelandic horse. If we were to cross in 2014, it was the natural health of the Icelandic race. Then there was another study at Iceland's Agriculture University, an assessment of the strong effects of performances in Icelandic sex reforms, and the comparative capacity of sexual reforms in different member countries. There is also another study, a course of physical physics, that continues with the Icelandic horse. We are now in 2015. I'm gonna let me go over these sponsors because I think it's important what money is worth and it looks like they've been well spent. In 2015 the Icelandic horse continues to have a study of biology. Then there is Iceland's national community, straggler with DNA, evolution of DNA projects; genetic analysis of narcolepsy in the Icelandic horse; evolution of Icelandic sex reform evaluation; effects of Icelandic horse flesh on metabolism, exercise, motor balance, and recovery. Then it is translated and printed in Clanmark books. There's a masteralization of theworldfengur.com. It comes to the outside of the registration and the book on all of this. Then there is a study of the assessment of the qualities of a sex - making disorder in Icelandic horse culture. So we're up to 2016. It is the activity of various mechanisms and their biological effects on the mouth of horses. Then it's going to be a Tiluna Station for Iceland's University to give it strength to the people in a viral study in the foals. That could be the case, for example, to form the Icelandic aerodynamics, culture, training, well - being. Matis ohf. And the community represents the proliferation of genetics. At the University of Hólar, I have a foreign study with a foreign subscription, which I think will leave it alone to read. There is still translation and printing of Clanmark books, something that needs to be revised. Then there's a database and an information board on Icelandic horse parties. In view of the fact that new appearances of horses are still taking place, this is of great interest and interest. Many people must have a measure of interest in it and regularly review it. And then there's the development of a growing goal and a justice system in Icelandic horse culture, and we're back in 2017. It is the Surgeon Station to Kaldur, which has a complete analysis of the genetics of EHV-3 virus from Icelandic horse and the history site of the Icelandic horse with the Icelandic horse ◆ the national horse, increase, and rise in sovereignty. That's very relevant now. The history site of the Icelandic horse also publishes the Icelandic horse ◯ national horse, a book on Icelandic horse farming and horsery. That must be an interesting and good book, for the first time we arrived in the country, the Icelandic sheep, the crown of creation, must have lived with us. Then it's national footage, trade and development footage for national conventions and saving to WorldFeng. There must be a considerable extravagance of it. I've been looking at some of the projects that have come from the fund. I think it's very important. I'm not going to say that I have the ability to publish whether it can be done in any other system, but it's definitely paid off. We need to increase the way and respect of the Icelandic horse, carrying its propaganda in many parts of the earth and around the world. How satisfying it is that this price, natural indeed, also comes to students who are involved in various studies, which are part of their study! They've actually been supporting innovation, which I think is very positive. This is shown in the sub-imposed bill Exhibit and the need for legislation, at the highest level. President: At 6 a.m. a law on eviction of horses is prescribed for each exported horse and will only be replaced by a sentence of law. The increase in income is suggested by Iceland's Farming Association, which was the first time that the Ministry received a petition in November 2015, following the conclusion of a horse farmer's career. The National Farm Association of Iceland points out that increasing income will strengthen the fund to deal with the projects he is aimed at supporting, i.e. to give strength to evolutionary and research projects in horse culture. This is clearly followed, and the projects I have listed are proof that the money has slipped into such things. As I said before, the price is to raise from 1,500 bucks. of 3,500. I think in the bigger picture and at the expense of calculating a horse, it's hardly big, and I don't think it's possible that there's going to be some resistance, or it means that there's a change in people's will and desire and ability to carry out a horse in that form, I don't see it. As part of the assessment of effects, it is estimated that the bill will have negligible impact on companies and horses exporters by permission of the President: The reduction in the price is considered negligible and will therefore not affect the overall demand or the individual market. If the bill is legal, it will not affect the position of the sexes, as its directives do not differ between enterprises or persons. The bill affects the exporters of horses, but there is no statistics relating to the number of horse breeders. So many were words. I've read the short and sweet commission, and I have suggested that the bill be passed on. All I can see is that I'll support it when this case comes to account, trusting that the committee handled all the comments and reviews that were received. The ones I've examined and covered are mostly very positive and support the bill. It has been observed that the stock protection fund has been strengthening the most important projects in Icelandic horse culture for years. It's important, it's positive, and it's good. I hope this case gets started. True, we can keep talking, and all we can do is keep talking about it. If we see a flat surface doing this in any other or better or more efficient way, I am more than willing to examine it and participate in that conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u53	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, especially in the light of the man who was up here. paritaprevir Egilsdóttir, gave my speech more and less when it came to the patrons of the famous US Institute of Protection. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir called to see that this bill was expressed by independents and therefore I feel that it is a reason for me to do so. As mentioned earlier in my answers, this bill first attracted my attention when it came, especially because this is talking about a fee in a stock protection fund. I had no idea what the National Protection Fund was, and I simply didn't know that such a fund existed. I will pay this bill of my vote, despite the fact that this is talking about a considerable rise in this price. You know, percentages are making a lot of money leaving 1500 bucks. of 3,500 K. but I agree with what other members of Parliament have said about the greater context. When a horse is being exported, I suppose it is because its value is considerable and in that respect, I think 3500 bucks. will not be an insurmountable amount. As I also came only in my opponent's voice, I always feel that there's good reason for us to consider when we get these cases on our side and even more often how we can clean up our collection of laws, so to speak. I simply wondered about the need for this treasure. Now I admit that I have not agreed on that matter, it may well be that this fund is of utmost importance but I think there is every reason to look into it, and I agree with it in the committee opinion when the greater part encourages a review of the changes to be made with those working in the article and still recommends that the bill will be accepted unchanged at this time. Hv. Egilsdóttir This is what I had in mind to say, though, that there are a number of government institutions that make up very much of this fund. The University of Hólar is here large, the National College of Hólar, the Tiluna University of Hólar, the University of Hólar, the National Institute of Agriculture, some individuals, the National Institute of Agriculture, the University of Hólar, Iceland itself as well as the rest of this, Iceland's Town Association again, the University of the Netherlands, the University of Hólar, the National Institute of Iceland, individuals, the Tiluna University of Iceland, the University of Köldum, the University of the Farmers, the Towns, and Matronisme, the University of the University of Hol, the town Association of Iceland, Tilla Hall, the National Institute of Iceland, the National History of Iceland twice, and the National League of Iceland. I feel that we have reason to wonder if this is the best arrangement to strengthen the good work that there is. I have no doubt that a great deal of work is being done. I just want to reiterate what I've said before, that when it comes to our public granting of a good project, whether it is innovation or evolution, research or other, it is important that this environment is clear and simple, people know where to attend, there are not many funds all over which everyone costs a considerable amount of money to keep around the fund, to go over applications, to evaluate them, and to do other things, but would be simpler, better and more efficient if there were fewer people with clear rules, and hence the costs of each case were lower for application and other applications. That is primarily what I would like to promote, and I restate on what is presented in the committee's opinion, that there is reason to reconsider this whole arrangement. Then I'd also like to wonder about the appearance of the fund and if there are more stock protection funds, not necessarily because of horses, but because of other livestock, and whether it can be viewed as an integration and as a unit of such funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u54	President. 14th degree. Iceland's constitution says: ▪ Ministers are responsible for all administrations. The minister's responsibility is legal. The general body can sue a minister for their office. They are judged by the Mosaic Law. The Enforcement is further defined in the law of No. 4/1963. The law states that a minister may be held accountable, e.g. to abuse his authority severely or if he does not seek the approval of the Generals when it is due to a constitution. In comments to the Minister's Accountability Act, we will be presented by the President's permission: ▪ It is understandable that today, after the Order of Congress is recognized, the question arises, Is there a need for a special minister's responsibilities? In other words, whether the solemn responsibility is not sufficient to protect against misuse of power on the part of a minister, and whether there is insufficient legal rights to it, in the matter of the Minister's terms of the general penalties. Of course, the responsibilities given to the minister give much attention, and according to the council order, the General or more of the responsibility at any time can get rid of an erring minister. The legal responsibility, however, must never be released. Of course, there is no reason to believe that other rules of office violations are valid rather than the homologous violations of other government officials [...] But the position of Ministers is so special that they can become guilty of the misjudgment of a job, which may not be possible in other government officials. The special office minister has had little in mind the contract of public penalties. So, despite all of this, there is a need for special ministers'responsibilities, in which punishment is given to the offenses that may be feared by a minister in particular and the regulations of a general penal law on violations of public work do not cover. There is nothing more to see than that evidence is still valid. President. We've seen that the political responsibility is not working so well. The chairs are more important than ministers being responsible for their actions. So the big question that will follow is: If ministers don't even have to be responsible for the council, how can they get into a position of responsibility toward national justice? I believe everyone can guess the answer. It only happens on political grounds after the election, where new things take over. Here it is to be held that if more than one part would decide to prosecute the minister of the previous government, it would not be necessary political persecution. The reasons for such a speech may well be logical and objective. The fact is, we can't seem to have a minister responsibilities, and the appearance of lawsuits based on the law of the Minister responsibility will always be on political grounds, bringing reproach on court treatments and results. The only time a national court has been called together, there are things you can say about the procedure. Some protest the treatment when others commend it. Here you should remember that both can be right. The results of the sentence, however, are uninterrupted. It has been tried repeatedly to find any conclusion of a national judgment, but the judgment has always gone through such an attack. On this basis, it is easy to say that national justice is trustworthy, although it is difficult to make a decision. But it is clearly the intervention of the Generalis, who is the problem and is associated with a lack of congregational responsibility. So the question is: Is it realistic to think that a national judgment is an option that can be called under the charges of political abuse on how it is called and has been brought up to a national judgment? On March 6, 2017, the president of Iceland, by permission of the President, said in an interview on the National Court: ▪ Let this teach us to be taught, and let me suppose that no one will have a law on national law in the Constitution. Find the one who wants things to be done in the same way in the future. I don't think you'll make it. Visis of February 5, 2018, by permission of President Björg Thorarensen, a professor of the administrative court at the University of Iceland's College of Legal Affairs, reports: ▪ As long as nothing else is replaced by the system of judicious government, it is actually a declaration that Ministers are at peace with charges against an act of office violation. The situation is serious, serious. There is evidence to argue that a screwup between the order of the judges of the land's rights, to hide a report for elections, and to appoint positions in exchange for pay to protect the Minister's orders. However, there is no solution in view of the Constitution changes, so here we are in immunity ministers in the shadow of what is called an out - of - date constitution, suitable for those who lead me to a different question. If there is a suspicion of violating the Ministerial Accounting Act, what advice can be taken to determine this? President. It has been claimed that an expiration law on the Ministerial Guarantee guarantees that little time is needed for a new council after the election is concluded, whether to bring together the court of the land. But today, it's different. 14th degree. The law on the rights of the Ministerhood says, by permission of the President: If a three - year violation of this law has passed, then the General would not agree to a conclusion about the capital. However, it will never fail until 6 months after the next regular election, after the offense, has been completed. It is worth noting that in Iceland regular elections have not been conducted since 2013. [[The president calls.]] As a result, Bragi's transfers to Sveinsson Claus as foreign minister in 2014, which have been discussed last week, are not yet old. So the question is, When this special discussion is over, do we not need to keep talking about national judgment in another field? [[The president calls.]] After all, are we not going to be using the laws that are available to us? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up a court of law on national rights and Minister responsibility. Hv. A senator asks: "Is it realistic to think of a national judgment as an option that can be called upon in view of the charges that have been brought about by political abuse against the way it has been brought to national judgment? " Of course, this arrangement has been very up - to - date, especially after the national judgment was brought together for the first time that many here are in the fresh memory. That is correct. The saying that there have been many, including me, that it would be desirable to change the arrangement of the constitution in the 14th Amendment. ..... Ministers are responsible for all administrations. The minister's responsibility is legal. The general body can sue a minister for their office. That is the case with the judgment of the land. These points are then implemented in the national law, No. 3/1963, and Ministerial Responsibilities Act, No. 4/1963. That does not change the course of action. A senator has discussed a constitution. This has often been discussed in connection with the review of the Constitution. Thorarensen's book on government rights points out that there could be some changes in the law of Ministers of Responsibility and National Judgment without changing the Constitution, which says that nothing stands in the way of an overall review of the laws on the rights and rights of the Ministers. In fact, it also says that such a review is timely as a result of a court of criminal rights in over half a century from the laws of the law and the changes in the views required for formality and the content of penalties. Similarly, in her book it suggests that it might be better defined as being in the office violations of the minister's office, paying attention to the universal penal law on violations of government ministers, and that there might also be changes in decisions made by judges or even masking the full - time high court to take on the role of the court, such as in Sweden and other countries. So it is important to remember that if we want to change this arrangement, it is not the only way to remove it from the Constitution, it may simply be to revise the laws on the minister's responsibility and national rights. The bill for a new constitution based on the proposals of the administration board was suggested that the prosecution of the Council and the National Court be canceled, but a administrative committee and board of directors would decide that the exception of a survey of any alleged government violations should be conducted and that they should order the prosecutors to take care of the study. What I can say about the discussions and comments of the presidents of the classes who have sat on meetings for the Constitution points to the willingness to change this arrangement, whether in the constitution or in the law, and the president of Iceland has also described the attitude that it is time to revise these laws. It is true here in the case of the court of Human Rights in the case of former Prime Minister Geir H. Haardes versus the Icelandic State, and the court's decision was 6 g. The Convention of Human Rights and the 7th C.E. had not been broken, i.e. The rules of fair handling and the clarity of penalties so that we have received this confirmation from the European Court of Human Rights. But it does not change that this arrangement, of course, has come to its own age, and I believe that there is good reason to reevaluate it. If there is a suspicion of a violation of the Ministerial Responsibilities, it is undeniably undecided that such cases are subject only to the jurisdiction of the Council and the jurisdiction of the National Court. The Minister's Accounting Act is a special law against the Penitentiary on a civil offense, but it may not be necessary - now I make it clear that I am not legalized - that the district attorney can appeal such a case on the basis of one's penalties. Hv. A senator here also refers to the expiration period, which would be considered less likely to be the violation of a minister's work than of other government employees. It is proper to keep the current system to its roots back to the 19th century. This occurs before Congress is established, which is said to the government order where the minister took his commission to the king and not to the greater part of the council. Hence, at that time it was an important resource for the council in order to establish responsibility for a minister who was not represented by the council. I believe, in order to answer this briefly, this complex and extensive language that we needed more time to discuss, that, yes, these laws have come to their own years. I believe there is good reason to discuss changes in both constitution and law on these matters. I'm not saying that the nothing should take over, but we should go over the arrangement we want to see, look to the experiences of other countries in it, and the scholars who have discussed this. However, I believe that the law testifies to its origin from the time it originated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u56	Madam President. I'd like to use my two minutes in this helpful discussion to discuss the subject of a bill held at the council, and I'm the first messenger to, um, change the Minister's Act. The contents of the bill take on the responsibility of a secretary to the General if he is misdisputed, gives misleading information to members of Parliaments and Parliaments, or secret information important to the management of matters at the General Assembly. Similar primes have been submitted before failure. This change is part of strengthening the Senate and the follow-up role of the General with the Commission. The Minister's Act requires the responsibility of a minister of the administration and when to require a minister's responsibility. The principle is that this should be done if a minister has either deliberately or willfully acted in discriminately against the republic's constitution, other laws of the land, or otherwise placed the interests of the State at anticipated risk. The Minister's Act does not specifically address responsible ministers for information giving to the Generals. Article 54, par. The Constitution guarantees members of Congress the right to request information from advisers. This law has been considered to include the right of senators to inquire and report requests. However, this does not include a general minister of information and truth to the General Assembly. One of the evidence given by the World Commission on the conduct and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks in 2008 was that the Council was not able to fulfill its role with the executives of the European Commission in a powerful way. This led to a panel committee that discussed the report. Increasing the independence of the council from the Commission, including the Council, was emphasized. proposed to guide the Parliamentary Act, the Minister's Guarantee Court, to be reexamined in this matter, but it has been established as to the office of Ministers of Qualification and National Court. I think that it should be considered whether the courts should be laid down and the ministers responsible for the general courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u57	V.E.G. President. The matter presented here has been raised from time to time during recent discussions at a council and can be said to have some agreement that there was a reason to revise the current legal arrangement. As we have considered, the Constitution allows the Minister's Act to be a legal arrangement and that a violation of that law should be tried on the grounds of national justice. But as mentioned in the case of the Supreme Court. The prime minister does not change this fact because even a humble constitution could be revised in the Minister's Qualifications and Laws of National Affairs, even making significant changes. I think it's safe to say that one of the main reasons why in the past few years men may not have been a big help in reviewing these laws is the feeling of the national court of 2010 and the second part of the council at the beginning of 2012, because they have left a case more painful and difficult, I think, in Icelandic politics than all of that. I was highly critical of the decision to make a greater part of the Generals at the time to charge on the basis of these laws, and there were others. But I think that both those who did the charges back then and those who fought against her in certain ways were quite an arduous mother after all of these events, and perhaps therefore shy away from going to the revisions that are inevitable in this field. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u58	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this discussion, which is very timely and very necessary. In any case, for a player it appears that ministers are alone when it comes to ceremony. We have an example of the violation of law, of the Supreme Court, and of requisition. I remember quickly, e.g. from a former environmental minister who violated organizational laws, and I recall a former prime minister who violated equality laws and both of them remained in office and may even still sit still. How reluctant it is, then, to think of what it takes for a minister to be responsible for his actions and underlings to become more than mere words! That's right. Ármannsson Just before, the bearer of the year's son is that the experience of one case at the time of the national judgment is being triggered by a man sitting left with a bad taste in his mouth, I think it may be safe to say so. And it would be appropriate to review from time to time how this finding was presented here in the Hall of Congress to refer to the case of a former minister, a former prime minister, to a national court in his day because the sequence of events designed in the sense that the former prime minister would be sent alone for national justice. Then it should be noted that the Central Party has proposed a synopsis on this matter, showing that even a reason for the Council to apologize or to forgive for that procedure all because the judgment of a national court order in one detail of six or seven counts is understandable to any person reading, e.g. A report by the General Board of Research. It wasn't possible at this time to have a government meeting because the government pissed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u59	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the matter of Ministerhood and National Affairs, i.e. It is possible to determine whether a minister has failed in his duties and responsibilities. As we know, the responsibility of a minister is divided in two political responsibilities and legal responsibilities. As we have seen, I believe most Icelanders have a problem with the way we have now, the court of the land. He is a child of his time, and the development of national law in 1963 has changed much. However, we have considered too little of what should replace national judgment and whether a specific court is needed, or if the courts in the country can take their place. When a minister's responsibility law was passed, the lawgiver felt it necessary to discuss the criminal responsibility of a judicial committee for the special office of a minister, but I think it is proper to look to the nature of this in our neighboring countries, as some have entered here. In Denmark the political and legal responsibilities of a minister in some respects have been met, so the council has always checked whether the legal responsibilities of the minister are in place, e.g. by requesting a legal assessment, and this is based on whether political responsibility is put to the test. In Norway, a state court judges one level of judgment in the issues that the United States Assembly appeals against stewards, members of the Parliament, or the Supreme Court for the violation of these men's duties. But it seems to me that there's a general opinion, and I believe that this is the opinion of not laying down national law and changing the laws on national rights and privileges of service. The question is, How do we take the next step?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u60	Madam President. We Icelanders often tend to wear either ankles or ears when discussing matters. We've had laws on the land and the Minister's responsibilities for quite a long time. Once it has been put to the test, first action is to declare that it is impossible and must be canceled. I'm not sure that's the right reaction. On the other hand, a person may be able to understand many questions as to what this great rule would require of ministers and politicians over their heads, since they seem to be particularly involved in compromising such responsibilities. I think the main thing in this is to understand thoroughly between the legal responsibility, i.e. Punishment and compensation due to the Minister's office, and the political responsibility on the other hand. On the other hand, I think about the political responsibility that there will be room for us to decide whether we can walk in the direction of the political responsibility in real life, i.e. Talk about shouldering it, but don't really. ▪ The Law, as it were, has no meaning, does not change anything. The job is done, and the minister will continue. So I think it would be a big step if we could walk into the direction that it would be normal and probably that people would be shouldering the political responsibility in the real world. As morals and manners in politics become stronger and more common, the greater the need for the harsh rules is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u61	A respectable president. Sometimes I think of things other than most people in particular. For example, when reading is news of a word. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson and Davíð's Sigmunds, the son of Gunnlaugsson, of the monasteries known as ambassadors'records, would likely most of them think a snoop. I'm thinking, "I'm irresponsible." When I think of Icelandic politics in general, I don't even think about irresponsibility. I find irresponsibility a characteristic of Icelandic politics. If I had to describe them in a single word, I would use that word, irresponsibility. V.E.G. In fact, during a radio interview, when I was present, a minister of justice said that the responsibility of holding elections and showing up for interviews. It's where political responsibility means, in Iceland, being a democracy where there is a media. It is the standard for political responsibility in Icelandic politics. Let's be clear. And it's not just from some random senator in town, it's from the highest office. The Minister of Justice of the Independence Party, and is not for anything else, as expected from that category. I'm so happy to hear it. The prime minister is careful to change the Constitution and the laws relating to national rights and ministers' responsibilities. But I believe that the ambition I believe to be sincere has come because it belongs to a group that is not used to being in control. When a squad is used to being in control, I don't believe that it's any ambition to have this system in order, because the problem remains that those who need to change the law themselves, because they are in more part, with a greater part of the council. They're the ones who're going to have to make the rules about it. How pleasant it is when you are in control for decades to have a system that does not work to support yourself, such as. The national justice system is today. I'm the highest. Prominent in this, the subordinates of the minister rejoice that this must be fixed, but merely reminds us that the history of Icelandic politics and political characteristics is irresponsible and irresponsible, and we must correct it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u62	President. Secular democracy is the worst form of government available except all the rest. This is one of the many quotations falsely attributed to Winston Churchill. In some respects, this is in the national court case. All communities are actually confronted with the question: What systems should we be able to deal with if ministers engage in activity? The idea of not doing anything, that the public is really the court, that all will be revealed in the next election, and we don't have to take responsibility for our actions on the Ministers until the next election comes, is simply not good enough. It hurts a lot of people's sense of justice. But we also don't want to see a system in which people are striving to report their political superiors to the general law enforcement authorities with all the dangers associated with the political abuse of the prosecution and the judiciary. We still need a system that works. As a community, we have been on the road to the land, which allows for a process that is complex and not easy to use. There's a lot of bad guys in here. Congress reports that the system is not working and that we have an example of this. In many ways I agree. In many ways I can agree with the need for us to update our system to the rhythms of modern government. How we can subtract the process in the light of experience is something we must do together. Something's at the top. Not only has the prime minister preached but he has said that he is working on it. It has been noted that there is a reexamination of laws on privileges and national rights. That's well, because as I say, it's something we need to update the rhythm of modern government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u63	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, is very happy to address these speculations about national rights and privileges of service. This is an extremely important discussion. Where's the minister's responsibility? Without the law on national law and the law on the rights of the minister of responsibility, we can say that we are declaring that this appointed group is holy. But ministers are not immunity because we have laws, they are in effect. Two. The law on the rights of the Ministerhood says, by permission of the President: ▪ If the matter is grown, a minister may demand responsibility according to what is stated more closely in these laws for any work or neglect, when he is guilty of it, that he has either deliberately or is a great laxity in conflict with the republic's constitution, other national law, or otherwise established the interests of the State. So it's in the 6th. g., by permission of the President. ▪ Any minister is responsible for the administration of those who are published in his name. It's a current law, Madam President, our national law, and no one here at the Council has forced anyone to cancel these laws. Then you might ask: Is this the only group of members, ministers, that need not be legal? Because it's the law. It's too bad when we send them out to the community that this one group of society doesn't have to go to the current law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u64	V.E.G. President. Following what I said in my first talk, I wanted to see that we review the arrangement that applies to this subject we need to ask ourselves some basic questions. There are fundamental questions in the first place on which we feel that there is a special law on responsible ministers, which has to do with other laws, other legal laws in the country, if such a violation is involved, and then the separation between legal responsibilities and political responsibilities, which I think are not to be minimized. Political responsibilities can arise in various ways, including in the custody of men in their seminary at the council, in the media coverage, in public social talk, and then at regular intervals in elections. The political responsibility may be culminating in various ways, and it is not entirely a matter of looking to a lack of trust or to a crucial factor in the mistrust of those matters. The other side we have to wonder about, if we are considering the rules of Ministers responsible for law or penalties to law, is whether the arrangement we are living in today, as the decision for the prosecution is in the hands of the council, that politicians make decisions on judicial action against one another. I don't think it is, and I don't think that in some way we'll have to design a system that'll get us out of the position we have, in my opinion, an evil experience. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u65	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank the advisor, please. paritaprevir And the bear of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson for bearing it up. I think the discussion is needed. This is a question of three-way national judgment, and the short answer to it is, if you don't mind me, yes on the first question and also on the third. Are the laws on rights of Ministerhood out - of - date in a court of law? It's like the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, came in, and the law is over a half century old, and they attended the king's decree of the minister. I think that says all there is to say. We have a minister here today who do not bring their testimony to the nation in that sense but are appointed by divisions. We also have several examples of the appointment of ministers without being elected by the nation. There are cases where ministers violated laws, sat fast, and even sat back after getting up from the Minister's office in regular elections. And where is the line drawn to such a law? There are several articles under the laws on the right of the Minister's Qualification. In the 10th. says a minister will be guilty of the law, by permission of the president, if he will abuse his authority severely, although he has not exactly gone beyond his jurisdiction. In 1 1. says: "By the laws of these matters, by means of growth, by loss of office, by fines, or by prison, up to two years. Is it when ministers are grossly excommunicated? Break the law? Or is it when a person does not respond to a question addressed to them directly from the National Congress? I think this raises a lot of questions, and I think it's absolutely time that we take this for a reexamination.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u66	Madam President. Here we will discuss a matter of utmost importance. It involves the responsibility of a minister for the work they do, and then national judgment, the arrangement for legal responsibility. I want to say the bottom line. Prime Minister that this is an arrangement that has long history and the things we must not confuse is the government, the constitution, and the law. It is authorized to revise the laws of national law. I trust that it will be as soon as we continue to work on the political responsibility as our present government and supreme government. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has worked hard with an order to trust in the Council. But in reality, it's about, and I agree with what. paritaprevir Asketh the Ármannsson of a year, that the council may determine whether the minister shall be brought to account. It may be justified in suggesting that we need to reevaluate it, for we may not know what sort of case we are dealing with and here is more of the situation in his position that he decides not to prosecute or file a legal case, though there is some kind of report or information that a minister has committed a crime. But number one, two and three, turn the legal part to the fact that we can make some improvements, and it's time. I trust we will.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u67	A respectable president. In order to sum up the discussion here, this might sound a little bit like the impossiblestance of the present arrangement actually lead to a minister of privacy. It is not to be taken seriously when a matter is sent to a national court. It must be viewed as an opportunity to eliminate doubt. Did the Minister of Justice violate the law of Ministerhood by order of the judges of the National Court? Did secretary of finance legalize the Minister's responsibility by putting reports into a drawer for 2016 elections? The foreign minister's law on the Ministry of Ministership by Geir H. Haarde's ships at ambassador's position? Did the prime minister's law on the privilege of being a minister by not reporting a conflict of interest due to links to demands in the fallen banks? All of the examples listed here, I believe, clearly, that I can protect a minister's responsibility, so clearly that it must be our duty to destroy the doubt of that matter by referring them into the course of the present law and constitution. By allowing the law to work, we build trust. We build trust by destroying doubt, either by confirming that there is a basis for suspicion or by getting the conclusion of innocence. We can spend time talking about creating new and beautiful systems, spending time talking about the need for reorganization and this. In the meantime, there are potential ministers who have violated the Minister's Principle. And while we change the arrangement, we are left with the alleged violations of the minister to the old arrangement. Now we're going to handle something like that. Requests at the General Assembly to state a request, and the council generally agrees that they will pass through. A fellow witness to a national court should not be much different. When it is correct, on a grammatical basis, we simply put it through. You see, a judgment has yielded a tremendously good conclusion, which has been traced all the way through the most massive systems available to pay attention to the benefits of that conclusion. So even if you can't trust us, you can still be trusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u68	Mr. President. Most of them why. The members of the council here have felt that it is important to review the regulations of the minister's responsibility and national rights. I don't agree with what. A advocate that it really is an opportunity to perform a national judgment and send a case to the minister he listed in that direction. This is my conclusion after being here at a council when the national court called out that this is not a suitable arrangement. I believe that the evidence that some scholars have suggested in this regard shows us that these are old laws based on many of the old traditions. It was only two years before these laws were passed that the Minister of Justice was to form the High Sovereign of the prosecution, so when these laws are passed, we are, in fact, still largely trapped in a very old system. Therefore, I take note of the scholars who have said that it is normal to look to the evolution that has taken place in our legality, as well as the evolution that has taken place here in the past few years, e.g. with sources to the Generals to set up research committees to discuss a particular case, which I think is a very good step. I present the establishment of a management and monitoring committee which has a role to play in supporting the Commission. I believe this is a more modern solution and a means of ensuring the Senate's continuation to the European Commission. On the other hand, I believe that the Ministerial Guarantee Act has arrived for its years, with a number of factors rooted in an arrangement that is no longer the case. I believe, too, that it is my experience that has been here at the time, although the law is still true and still valid, I do not disagree. A senator in charge, if this is not the most appropriate way for the council to perform its role, and it can be handled if ministers become lawbreakers. There have been some suggestions, I quoted the books Björg Thorarensen on these matters, and other scholars have expressed themselves on this. I think it's very important that we take this up to counter discussion, both in constitution and in the law itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u69	President. This matter has been discussed in detail. The management and monitoring committee, so well that some specialists thought that there were few changes in the Ministry would have been more discussed in the case of the Generals, and it's a good thing. We want to do well. The majority of the management and monitoring committees have turned in a committee that I'm going to take into the mind of the quality of the reactions we've shown in this case. The committee discussed the matter and visited a number of visitors whom I am not going to read all the details, and reviews were received in a number of places. The proposal seeks the support of the General Assembly for the proposed change of mass and title at the Iceland Board of Management, which Prime Minister intends to propose to the President of Iceland in accordance with Article 15. Presidential records of the Republic of Iceland. The changes are that in place of the Ministry of Health, there are one of the health services and the Department of Social Affairs, and the increase is expected from nine to ten. In general, the Commission has discussed the matter in its meetings and the proposed change in the affairs of the administration, but in the initiative, it shows that the objective of the promotion of the Ministry is primarily to explain the change of practices within the Council of Government, thereby sharpening the political leadership of the Governing Body's seminaries. It is assumed that the transition will be the same as it has been between health ministers and social and equality minister, except for the transfer of equality to the Ministry of Presidency. I'm going, a respectable president, to allow me to bring in a small opening in my lecture on the committee opinion, as here we are talking about the equality issues that are being brought to the Ministry of Presidency. In a paper with the Senate resolution proposal, the president's permission states on the subject: While there is no equality, including the subject of individuals with sexual problems, the Ministry of Presidency is moving to the Ministry of Presidency and so forth. Here is an example of the rapid progress of these developments. Here, those who produced the well - chosen and well - prepared report have been referred to a law on this very case. The Law is from 2012 but is out - of - date when it comes to what names and terms we use. Therefore, we do not have this in our committee party because this is, of course, talking about equality in general and equality between gay people, not just those with sexual problems. It's nice to report, Mr President, that at the U.S. Congress Department. That's exactly what the government is reexamining from the controversial laws that are clearly referred to in the report. But the equal issues, so I'll return to the committee's opinion. The Commission discussed some of the equality issues of the Presidency Department, but it reports that the importance of these issues has increased substantially over the past few years and is considered to Iceland as an example in the legislation and development of the international seminary. The committee concluded that in view of an equal rights issue involving the work of all councils, a proposed transfer of the jury to the Ministry to strengthen him. The majority agree, and in view of the co-ordination of the Ministry of Presidency, the establishment of the Office of Equal Opportunities within the Ministry is an important step that will have a positive impact on the integration of equality and into the sponsorship of the seminary. The broad level of equality within the Council must be considered. The majority of these points to the importance of the work of the Office of Equal Opportunities in the Presidency Ministry, in a complete way that the proposed future policy development and a global review of equal rights administration will be carried out by an equal rights agency. The subject of children. In the context of the Ministry, it is assumed that the office name of the social services will change and become the Ministry of Social Affairs, Children's Ministers, which reflects the government's plans for increasing emphasis on the issues of children and young people. The Committee gave the opinion that with the change brought special attention to the children's affairs and that it is by nature to fall into the needs and rights of children when making decisions about the children's issues in the Ministry. Among the projects of the new Ministry of Social Affairs, Iceland's policy, vision, and children's goals must be shaped. Children's protection laws, social services on the children's affairs, and all national services are being revised. The aim of the review is that children will always be put first in all the approach within the category and that participation in their case will be ensured as soon as possible and united in the activities of children and their families. One of the main objectives is to ensure a coordinated work and service with children, young people, and their families in all areas, and to follow through on these measures. The majority agree with these views, thinking that by developing Iceland's child - care policies and increasing emphasis on uniting the strength of those involved in child - care matters, there is a progressive step toward strengthening the well - being of children and their families. The subject of an act of anthropology. The Committee has specifically discussed the housing and the plans for transporting resources from the Environmental and Resource Ministry to the Department of Social Affairs, which includes housing and housing, housing and construction issues, private and workforces and labour markets. There was an opinion that maning activities will thus be separated from factors they have a high degree of cooperation, such as planning, assessments of environmental impact and the decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources, and will be added to the Ministry of Global Affairs. There is a need to improve the effectiveness and streamlined activities within the whole group, but this system will become more complex. It was noted that the rural communities were local governments in organizational and construction, and in view of the importance of organizational and construction issues in policy and rural administration, it would be appropriate to consult with them in the shape of the proposal. There was also a view that there was obvious evidence for the order that the activities of workers were all at one hand and that they had a better place in the transportation and rural government. The committee also stated that in Denmark and Sweden there were organizational matters and housing matters for the same minister. Synthetic and harmonizing would have housing and infrastructure and a better access to a single minister's housing case, i.e. all aspects of the construction and order of the building industry, including fire control, fire departments, electrical monitoring, and market surveillance. The majority feel that the arrangement could be considered elsewhere in the North countries. The Committee also provided a view that the transfer of workers to social services would be a positive step in promoting long-term stability of housing markets and normal continuation of recent changes in the law on housing, including: increased commitment to state and rural communities to the need for analysis, planning and long-term housing policies was put in place. It was noted, however, that there was still a need for a simple structure for the administration of housing, with the responsibility for the rest of the case with many advisers but that this step is taken in the right direction. The importance of strengthening and increasing the cooperation of all professionals and parishioners was highlighted in reducing the cost of building. Ministers of housing in the North countries have agreed to a joint declaration in order to coordinate the work of construction within the countries and thereby reduce the cost of building. The majority agree that this is the first step to support the administration of the party and to support long-term policy development and the more efficient implementation of housing procedures. The majority of them focus on continuing work to strengthen the cooperation and coordination of employers, including In regard to organizational matters, human activities, monitoring of manpower and environment. According to this, the more part doesn't make comments to the proposed division of the Ministry of Health and suggest that the synonym proposal be accepted. Under the committee's opinion, publications are written on the subject. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir, Sverrisdóttir Sverrrisd, Óli Björn the son of Kárason, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egil. A respectable president. It's a long, thorough opinion, and it explains itself, so I'm not going to focus my words more on it. But I'd like to change my hat and stop speaking as the head of the majority opinion column. Command and surveillance committee and speak as Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, please. 6th. Smoke. n. It is my personal opinion, Mr. President, that the way the European Commission decides to appoint their own matters, appoint their recruitments or offices, divide their assignments, be and be the subject of the Commission, not necessarily the legal cause. I think it's the tributary of the government that the legislature authority is not a matter of meddling in the way the European Commission decides to order its affairs. There I can give a number of examples of how these matters are being handled in many parts of the world but not to do so, for here I am merely expressing my own personal opinion and, in fact, going to declare it, President, that I am working on the very issue that I will when it comes to putting it into practice. General. But in that light I feel -- I'm going to allow myself to say my personal opinion -- a motion presented by the 1st part of the management and monitoring committee, and I'm probably going to be recommended afterwards, all the attention and worth of being seated over and examined, although she's not part of the committee's list of the more part, and I don't know and I didn't discuss it at any formal meetings. Then I'm merely expressing my opinion. In other words, Mr. President, I think the Commission should be self-conceived how it behaves, how it organizes its work. To say that, so that I change my hat again and become the majority opinion manager, I reiterate what appeared at the end of my reading of the figure, that we, in a greater part of the nature. The Commission and the Commission do not comment to the proposed division of the Ministry of Health and suggest that the Council decision be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u70	Madam President. I recommend a board of committees with a new proposal from the 1st smaller part of the management and monitoring committee, where we're two years old. Senators, please. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, chairman of the Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee, and whoever stands here. According to the Constitution, the President will order and grant them a release. Likewise, he decides their numbers and divides their jobs with a court order. This makes the president a suggestion and responsibility for the prime minister. The European Commission's legislation states that it is divided into the Ministry of Ministers and Directorates of the Commission in the relevant topic area. The number and title of recruitment, along with the switch between the administrations, are determined in the presidency of a proposal and the responsibility of a prime minister, as noted earlier. Part one of my memory believes that the Council of the Council of Iceland does not limit this authority of the prime minister. It is preferential to 2 mg. Section 4. The law will be considered in this context. It claims that similar government issues are always covered with the same Ministry. The law is so open, however, that the prime minister has virtually free hands in these matters. Part one of my memory believes that the Council of the Council of Iceland does not limit this authority of the prime minister. It is preferential to 2 mg. Section 4. The U.S. Council of Government will be considered in this context. It claims that similar government issues are always covered with the same Ministry. On the other hand, the law is so open and so open that the prime minister has almost free hands in these matters. The first reminder points out that in 2 st. The U.S. Council of Government does not require any instructions on the subject, form or logic of the Parliamentary Directive to be submitted to the General Assembly. Part one of my memory is that, as the Regulation for Ministers, Ministry and Transmission is made, it is, in fact, expected only the confirmation of the Generals in the form of a number and a vow plan. The first part of my memory suggests that the prime minister will not produce ideas about the order of counseling and their name in disgruntled by his government and thus the greater extent of the government's support at the General Assembly. When, for that reason, there is no reason to look for the formal confirmation of the Generals, as the Council now assumes. The first memory section feels that it is a normal part of the implementation of the European Commission and the legislation authority that the legislator authority is not involved in how order, vow or number of recruitments are conducted, nor is there a provision of administrative matters between recruitments. There are other ways in which the legislature authority can support and monitor the implementation of the European Commission. As a result, 1st smaller things feel right that the European Commission legislation will be reviewed. The first smaller section considers all the above and does not properly respect that the Commission and monitoring committees declare support or suggest that prime minister's intention will be blocked but suggest that the General Assembly merely conclude that the change in the Council Directive is in line with the rules of Iceland's Council of Government, No. 115/2011, as they are now designed. Thus, the first smaller item suggests that the synopsis proposal will be accepted with the following change, followed by the change: The General concluded that the proposed change in the number and intensity of councils at the Iceland Board of Directors, which includes that in place of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs, there is a law in harmony with Iceland's Management Board, No. 115/2011 Then the reading will be in the suggestion. Under these publications. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Jón Valdimarsson Now I'm just going to step away from the commission and follow in footsteps. paritaprevir And Kolbeinn Óttarsson, the Proppér of Oth-timer, and spake a few words out of his own heart. I'd like to start by saying that the job on the Committee was great, and there were a lot of visitors. There was a lot of good discussions on the subject of the proposal and, as a matter of fact, appeared to each one. All of this is finely tore in the opinion of the greater part. As the discussion went through, you began to wonder, " What is it? ' I think I'm correct in saying this is the third time that this kind of concierge proposes for payment at the council, and that is the same way, there is a proposal to be held by prime minister's counsel, the executives defend and support the proposal of the prime minister in the government, counting it most of the action. On the other hand, those who put the position of government in such a position are more likely to be more unnecessary than the rest. Then one began to wonder, " What is this for? ' As I wondered more about this and began to read only about the history of the Council of Government, I honestly don't understand, and I refer them to my committee's opinion, to what it is. And when you think about the trimetric analysis of power, I've been at this job now -- I've been in this situation before being an executive at this proposal, during another term, so I know it from other sides -- think: it's somehow not true. We have a government to carry out what the Council recommends, or under the law of the Council. How the prime minister and the government feel best about all their jobs, including the exchange of projects, needs to be on the responsibility of the government and thereby the prime minister. If a prime minister isn't acting unwisely, begins to file a ministry that will become inconsistencies, or will not work on the task they are assigned to do, the government must suffer. Hence, it must call for the Senate's maintenance and supervision to determine whether or not the projects assigned to the Commission are being carried out. It is also possible to use the financial resources. If ever a prime minister was to increase the number of recruitment agencies or administrative agencies, the council would turn over the budget so that the government would have to tailor to grow. This is basically what I think I want to say on this subject. The point is: In some ways, I feel that we are spending a little time with the council. We know what will happen. We know that the comments made will not be taken into consideration. There are visitors with a light of hope in their eyes to convince the committees that it may not be the wisest thing to do as well as gay and we nod and ask and say, "Aha." Then nothing happens. I don't think it's wise to wake up a false hope. The other is so different that, of course, the prime minister at any given time can, and I think that it is wise to do so, perhaps looking primarily for those with whom the work of counsel applies, i.e. to those who call in modern Spanish economs, and listen to their viewpoints, and then decisions are made on that basis. When I was looking at the latest version of this law, I realized that a considerable discussion took place in 2011, I think I'll correctly remember, when the law was given, that it was not a bill in the bill that the council should interfere with these matters. There was a riot and a lot of discussion at the council in the day. They were referring in this way to promoting leadership, and it would be entirely impossible for the council to do anything about it. There were some viewpoints in these things that I read well, but I wasn't convinced. I think it was some kind of political dilemma back then that caused the bill to be changed. I don't see that this led to any special improvement or improvement, with the arguments that have been attributed to the above. I'm still convinced that we should have the authority to order these matters as best we can. We have other tools to maintain, and failure to act wisely will result in self - defeat. I think the motivation to handle these matters is reasonable enough. Similarly, let us not shrink back from the fact that there are sometimes political necessities or motives, that people simply need to be organized according to governments and the composition of those in the government. This may be wise for everything and for all to see that there is a change in schedule. The prime minister's commission, then, is to order and exchange tasks in a reasonable way. So I hope that my opinion on the part will be well understood, and I'm sure I am glad that the messenger's proposal of the greater part, when he had come with his own hat on his head, was rather positive in the face of this vision of the proposal, which includes that it is completely neutral to the matter, i.e. the instructions and tasks proposed. However, the underlying tone is changing this in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u71	V.E.G. President. Hv. An authority in my section answered one of the questions at the end of his talk that I was going to take on this counter, but I think that it may be interpreted that the latter part of the Committee does not take a material position toward the proposal as such, i.e. the changes in understanding between health and social and health aspects of the current Ministry of Health. It's fine if it's clear. I also understand his speech - and ask him to correct me if it is not - that he feels that the future arrangements for these matters should be in a way that a government, or prime minister after an incident, can make a decision for counseling. Then I'm talking about the establishment of advice, or because of their delinquency, by Presidential decision, that there is no need for the help of the General Assembly. It is true that this was a very controversial case in 2011. I had something to do with that disagreement. Of course, he was in part concerned that despite the independentness of the enterprise in his work, it is still a law-enforcement and the authority is bound to work within the framework of the law. Among the factors that can be put to the test are the founding planning and management arrangements, including recruitment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u72	Madam President. Thank you. The answer to that question is yes, and it is appropriate to pause at the thought that material attitudes are not taken in this respect of 1. This does not mean that transporters do not have opinions about whether the observed changes are suitable or not, or whether this should be done in any other way. However, in view of the conclusion that the lesser part finds out that the matter is completely out of the way of dealing materially with the proposal itself, and the change involves declaring this neutral stand. Yeah, you're right about what you're talking about. Senator at least The person standing here believes that these matters are not to be handled by the Generals. On the other hand, I agree with what. This does not mean that the European Parliament is completely free to do anything. Hv. A senator gave general rules about things. General rules - and in part in the Council of Control - may need to be reviewed as to what view to determine when these matters are taken into consideration. Perhaps--I may say, I haven't seen it with those glasses--can be explained by this general framework that man has to guide his course afterwards, but by the point of not being tailored too narrow. However, not entirely so that a person can decide that a prime minister is right alone to do all the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u73	V.E.G. President. This is because of interesting speculations and a number of familiar facts. Actually, there are two poles. On the one hand, the Ministry, their agency, its subsidence and post-actuality should be legal, and the view that there is an office on the basis of the European Commission to have any free hands to act on what is appropriate at any given time. Although I'm not a fan of the 2011 law, in fact, I felt that there had gone wrong in the legal process, we have to say, in the conclusion that both of these views are being tried by adding more power to the proposed gates than before, but so that the Allied would have access to the establishment of a new scheme and subjugation of them actually. That was the idea behind it. In this way, there was an attempt to bridge the gap between certain viewpoints in these materials. But to form a question to why. I'd say, isn't it fully expedient to the European Commission to say that in this respect the Commission is not to carry the establishment of a new agency under the council while other government agencies always have legal requirements? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u74	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for meditation and a question. Of course, all these matters are not entirely private. I think, though, that now and modern government, the speed of social change, are in a way that makes sense that the system is very flexible and not hovered. I'm not necessarily sure that the Council is the best in itself to determine exactly which department is needed at any given time. You can also ask yourself: " What happens now if the prime minister brings up an arrangement for a certain regimen of a minister or scheme, and then he brings in some wrinklers in his government, and the General Assembly takes up the statement of no? ' What happens then? Does the government fail, or is the prime minister, to accept being sent back and fail to make the changes he wants? I don't know if that's right. Whether to drop or set up agencies such as the Ministry or offices without the help of the General? Yeah, I think it can work out. Still, we have frames that, of course, are the Council of the Management Board of Iceland what to do and what to consider there. That line might have to be fixed if such a change went through. [[The president calls.]] But, yes, I think we should have the executive... after planning our own jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u75	Madam President. What are we even talking about here? We're dealing with a transitional scheme. For the treatment of this case. The Commission and the Commission reported that the Parliament's resolution proposal, in fact just one of its smells, was on the table of the Committee. The Conspiracy proposal with its entire report may have included more introductions to prime minister's ideas on the type of operation she wanted. Because it was made clear at the first meeting when the council came before the committee that they considered all the members of the committee to be considering the right course to divide the problems and possibly reflect on the names of the advisers. It is true that fine work was done on the committee today. We received various visitors, and especially because we sent this case for review, but it was noted at the first meeting with the representatives that the firms of the industry had e - mailed their comments to what they had heard were possible at the moment of death, i.e. to transfer housing to Department of Social Affairs. The nominees asked if the review was a problem, but it became clear that the matter had not been discussed. Then it was decided to dismiss the case as normal and to enter many reviews. Why am I talking about this here? Because I think it's important to the highest. The prime minister is aware of the discussion that took place because, of course, she is making this offer and has the authority to do what it suggests. I believe, however, that she knows of all the warnings that came to us on the board of administration and surveillance. The European Union has sent e.g. A review that was somewhat harsh, with the permission of a president: Then it is unavoidable to make a serious comment on the design of this project transport without consultation with rural society, considering the importance of strategy and construction issues on local policies and management. May even lead to the development of the proposal of the European Convention on Self - Control of Companys and the criteria for consultation between administrative points developed by the European Council's Surgeon Council. When it comes to the firms of industry, they also sent in a review and came before the committee. I'm gonna allow me to quote their review, by permission of the President's permission: ▪ The Union has pointed out that housing market issues, including The construction of residence and planning, if the orphan of the Council is a legal body in view of the well-being of the Ministry of Health, planning and the affairs of human beings on the custody of the Environment and Resource Ministry, and the affairs of rural society are in the custody of the Department of Transport and the government. With the current switch, there is no perspective on the whole group of compromises or effectiveness. Also, there will not be a planned change, since housing issues continue to become custody of three schemes. In fact, all of this is under the authority of a prime minister, as mentioned here, and is able to do what she wants. However, I believe that there is good reason for us to consider this, that she will consider whether she should violate the advice of those working in the seminary. It was quite clear that these people, including Iceland's Acquisition Society, were extremely concerned because this part of the workers should be taken over and transferred to Social Services instead of trying to combine all of this together in the local Ministry. The Committee also had representatives, and they were more positive to this case because they felt that they were entitled to transfer a portion to the Ministry of Social Affairs, although it was not that way in the North countries. In the north, however, one thing is about building and planning, building, housing, and the same Ministry is about everything. It matters. It is important that this is not being silenced into many departments and there has been a complaint in this country as to how hovering the system is, especially when it comes to environmental and organizational matters. That's why I think it must be given much thought and careful consideration. There is nothing to say that housing and planning issues must be transferred to the Department of Social Affairs at this point. They're looking for a warrant or a statement that should be replaced by the Ministry of Health, and there's nothing against having this two department, except maybe in all this treatment and that's the cost factor. The 1st. was shown in the case of the highest degree. The cost of growth and the cost of this recommendation for all of us would be 70 million. However, it has now been observed, and it has been shown during the trial that, apart from these 70 million, the cost of bringing equality into the Ministry of Presidency is now estimated to be 200 million more, to create this special office. There was something that had not been discussed here in the Assembly Hall. This caused a slight stir of shock because the claim had been repeated that it cost 70 million. It has also been reported within the Ministry of Health, the Department of Social Affairs, that there are also 200 billion people expected there. K. inject into the file for children. Then we're in numbers of 470 million because of all these substitutions. It appears, then, that the government is praising the same financial value many times without realizing it somewhere in financial matters. That's where I want to stop and at least This points to the public speaker's office. An operation that is supposed to be relatively low on some scale, 70 million, has cost 470 million. You may wonder, " Is it better to spend money on something else? ' I also comment that equalities to the Ministry do not apply to any kind of equality. You see, equality is not just sex equality and equality, it is not just equal to gay people, it is equal in all ways. When an eco-efficiency office came to our house to the DC, they did not seem to know completely whether they would hear under the new office or not, for nothing had been discussed with them rather than with anyone else, as compared to the Union's. Company or industrial organization or others. You wonder with equality and human rights in general there are legal cases at the Ministry of Justice, and some Department of Justice for specific groups will then be in the new senior office. Prime Minister. You wonder, " Is this really a question for the benefit of the group? ' It seems that the guests and those who sent in reviews were pleased that children's issues were given added weight and should be raised in particular. I have to agree that I think it's good that we do well with that group. Of course, you may wonder, " Is it always meant to change a hot solution every time someone thinks of lifting an extraordinary matter above another? ' It is a question of whether it is even better for us to allow the hot advisers to be at peace with special interests or if we will see this happening regularly at any minister's change or whenever a minister comes to think of a new hobby, so to speak. That's what I wanted to say about this particular subject. Otherwise, I'll just turn in a minority party as a boy. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson did well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u76	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for questioning these points listed here on the challenges of project transport and to action, as well as the like. The older law assumed that it was generally legal for the work that the Ministry and the changes needed to be discussed at the council, including going through the open discussion that follows in committee work, reviews, and conferences. I can hear it at the moment. A senator that she is interested in discussing these matters and has opinions on them, and in view of that, I would like to ask him why. A member of Parliament whether it is appropriate for decisions on these matters to be kept out of control at the council, whether it is considered a prime minister or a government to have a personal example of making decisions as to which the Ministry is active in the country and what their assignment should be, whether it is not relevant to the council, or whether it should be handled in any way by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u77	Madam President. Thank you. The senator is very much concerned with this inquiry. I have very many opinions about things, so I can stand here and have my views and opinions unconcerned. If you think of the politics in this regard when it comes to government development, how groups agree to organize their own government, when it is possible to wonder where the harmony is best, etc., you wonder if it is appropriate to take it into the council, perhaps because of how the party bitch can sometimes get in the way of good things. I don't know. However, I feel that there is something that the council is discussing and discussing, as we are doing. We're talking about it, we're considering it, and it was very important to have visitors who also had these opinions. One wondered, " Is this really not to be a prime minister's decision at any time? ' Still, it's like we have the budget. Then the question is, Will we let the prime minister determine a scheme simply into the infinite because the minister seems so? I'm not sure the General would be prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u78	V.E.G. President. It reminds me that being accepted by the Parliament as an arrangement that discussed the establishment of new recruitments or changes in the arrangement of which the Ministry is active in the country has served the very purpose of giving the council some access to these matters. In fact, more limited in the matter of action, ordering lawsuits, and so on is not the matter of decision given by the council itself but by the presidency of a president's decision, so there is, of course, a degree, flexibility for the execution of the occasion. The idea that we can say was born in the controversy that took place on the bill 2011, however, concluded that it was assumed that even if it was more limited than it was before, there would have been some occurrence. Of course, I know that there have been some opinions in these subjects over the years, and not necessarily according to the category of statistical lines, but to some other viewpoints. I have to say, based on the fact that governments have to overcome the many changes and look to the Senate's consultations and approvals for so many things they do, I don't feel too much laid down or too heavy to be placed on government if they're going to start a new Ministry, divide the council's resources or put down a government agency, in some way that it is under the council, as it is actually being done here. I can then feel that even the presence of the assembly may be desirable and that I would like to ask why. A senator on her view of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u79	Madam President. I'll thank you later for an answer. It was so strange in the treatment of this case that at the hands of government experts, they seemed to be needing some kind of approval of the council, but the law does not say anything about it. In fact, they do not say that it takes an approval of the council or a demonstration. It's just this discussion. That is what we have noted, that it is a question of whether we need to make a decision not to have it in our hand, that it is granted the approval of the council if the majority will do so. I agree that it is worth talking about here, and this exchange is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u80	V.E.G. President. This issue is not much of a subject and the decision desired by the council to take sides is not difficult. The case is presented to call up the Generals' position on the proposal that the Ministry of Health will be divided into the health sector and the social sector will be restored. As a result, as it were, they are returning to the arrangement for the change that took place following the 2011 constitution. The establishment of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs is being restored. That is, in fact, all the members of the council are asked to take their stand. Distractions, or explanations, presented in a paper on further ideas about engineering and other things - I view it as primarily presented for presentation and discussion, but it is not to be called for in itself, even though I reiterate what I once said about the fact that the discussion is of the good and fine thing about those factors. But the main point of view is this: Does the Parliament believe that the prime minister's plan is to establish two agencies on the basis of one thing or not? I'll take that heading. I believe that it is right and natural to divide it in that way, and basically, I describe the idea of a workmutation that is expected to follow. I similarly supported the switch between the State Department of Justice and the Department of Transport and the State Department. I also thought that the change was good, and I think that when the 2011 Board of Directors changed, they may have been more zealous than careful about the changes they were making at that time, and I'm glad they're getting back on track. I think we should, of course, examine these things at any given time with a critical attitude, but I do not necessarily like making changes so rapidly or frequently in these areas. I think it's a good thing for the national administration to be fixed in these matters and at least it's a formal process and discussion requirement before major decisions are made, because I consider decisions to be as such. ... individingaddresss, creating new departments, or laying down departments, is a small amount of decision making. Humans have referred to the trinification of the government and to the switch between the executives and the legislators. It's good as far as it goes. Nevertheless, it is always the lawgiver who shapes the framework that the tool needs to work within. It is the lawgiver who determines the rules of the game, that is, the lawgiver who determines the establishment structure to be carried out in the future. I believe that part of that institutional arrangement is a process of counseling, and the existence of scheme because we have a general arrangement that holds out the entirety of its activities by law. It takes a law to set up projects for government administration. Government agencies need laws, government agencies will not exist in any way that would improve. I believe this applies to the Ministry as different institutions. I think we, rather than reducing the arrival of the Generals to this arrangement, as I have heard very quickly in the talks of some speakers today, should increase the survival of the Generals in these matters. Then we are talking about the organization, the organization, and the arrangements for the execution of the Agency. Of course, it is not necessarily so that the Council should have the fingers of the company's individual initiatives beyond what is legal, but it must always be the council that sets the legal framework for action within, and this is part of my mind. The arrangement of these matters is varied in the countries around us and has been in many ways here on earth. I think there's a reason to remember that the schemer's motive was to be established by government legislation from 1970 that it had been considerably loosed during the years and decades before. Some government agencies improved as long as others were not there, and at that time, almost 50 years ago, the understanding of the main scholars in the field of government and government was that it was needed to get things into a more fixed form and to establish in a clearer way how this arrangement was, because they considered the experience that had developed in some decades, not good. This may have been too rigid or heavy, but this did not prevent changes in the values of the 1970 constitutions, or changes, in the number of recruitments or other measures. The law then established a new Ministry and others, so even though it was legal in a very strict way, it did not prevent changes. In any case, I wanted to recall that the changes that took place in 2011 were debates and debates at the council. In this regard, they were attracted to the same viewpoints that have been expressed during the council today. Of course, there were other issues involved, but with this point, the question was, Should it be the decision of the European Commission and the decision of the prime minister primarily on how these matters should be handled, or should the council have a place in it? The result was compromise, and there is a possibility that a person can track himself through discussions and committee opinions and other adjustments in these topics. The adjustment that was eventually submitted to the 3rd Environment. And it came to pass, that, as for this matter, it was agreed, the advisers, that the prime minister would have to make a decree to the council and receive the support of the council to make changes in those matters. This included a compromise between the different viewpoints in these matters, but the result was, in my opinion, acceptable to what it involved and ensured at least certain minimality of the council in these matters. I must be of the opinion that in the change that occurred at that time, the adjustment that was eventually adopted after a considerable delay and political conflict at the council, which, unlike the 1st smaller part of the management and monitoring committees, is included in the Committee's committee, requiring material attention on the part of the council, i.e. it was not merely a request that the council express its opinion on whether the change made was in accordance with existing law. Not only were they asking for someone, what should I say, a formal opinion on whether the change was legal or not, but it was being demanded or expected by the council that it take a material position on the matter. Therefore, I feel that a smaller portion of the management and monitoring committees is slightly overlooked by taking a materialistic position on whether or not to be switched to the Ministry of Health for Health and Social Affairs. I would have liked it better to hear the views of the senators, since it is of course important that we have a material situation. I think it's obvious that there are no circumstances in which the prime minister's case is pronounced, submitted to the council, just to find out whether the case is legal, or not, or if the proposal is legal. There are other members of the society that are designed to decide whether the law is respected or not. I feel that this aspect of the committee body and the talks they have been given will be slightly overlooked by the majority of people who feel that it is less than I think it is possible for them to do so. I'm not going, top dog. President, keep this speech longer. I then appreciate it, based on the conclusion of a greater proportion of administration and monitoring committees which include support to the case and the position expressed in the conclusions of my section of administration and monitoring committee, which does not comment but does not take a material position, if I understand that correctly, I think the matter will get started at the council. However, I may share in common with some of the people who have spoken that I believe that material is for the sake of the law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland to take some thought and discussion. We're not doing it in a formal way here, but I think there's a grounds for that. But I'm not sure that all of us agree on the conclusions in these matters, as the discussion has shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u81	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech was excellent in many places. As the synoptic proposal is developed, according to the words, the Council concluded to support the proposed change. If they were to be looking for a material opinion, they would be closer to the proposal, i.e. Does a planned change go along? Second, if we adhere to it, would it not be right for the council to take a more objective position, that the proposal for Congress be much more thorough? It's actually saying very little, though there are a number of factors involved, but that's not what the Council is supporting or accepting. Would it not, then, be correct for the development and fortification of the whole thing to depend on, so that the General could actually change the legal environment and appoint the Commission for it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u82	V.E.G. President. It is true that the suggestion could have been made in another way. I don't think it's time to blame, but it certainly could have been said differently. In the same way, there could have been a clear word of law, I can quite agree that it could have been done. I believe, however, that if people read the law and the opinion of the committee and the talks given at the hearing of the case at the time 2011, no one needs to question the purpose of presenting the proposal for the council is to submit the decision on the matter. It is then true that in less recent parts of the committee, the law does not contain any principle on the form of the synonym should be, or proposed, in other respects. [[The president calls.]] It points out exactly what is being said.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u83	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for the answer. Let us assume that a change of motion would be made, saying: ▪ A council concludes not to support them. What material consequences would that have? Does this mean that a prime minister has his hands tied and cannot make these adjustments? Does the Council have a denial? A direct result of a talk each time. A senator would like to ask, because I felt that he was even thinking that the General should take more control: When he feels that he may be. Would it just be true that the General would take these matters to heart? There's only a U.S. Council law on the order of recruitment, that's what it is, and if you want to change it is that the initiative of the Generalis is that of otherwise being carried out in these institutions, to these councils, to these offices, as the Council has decided they are at any given time? [[The president calls.]] Is that the answer the senator may have in mind?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u84	V.E.G. President. I would now believe that if a prime minister proposes to the Council for certain changes in the nation's recruitment ship and the General rejects the change, the prime minister would not be permitted to proceed with the matter in any way. Now, this has never been tested, but I would say that it was a much more advanced legal explanation that led to the freeness of the prime minister's clear conclusion in these matters than bound, especially when considering that the arrangement as it sounds is made directly in order to obtain the presence of the Generals to the decision under discussion. It is evident from the discussions and the reviews and adjustments made in this case that the survival of the Generalis was expected and that it would be most illogical if there were no consequences if the General Assembly rejected the proposal of the prime minister in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u85	A respectable president. These are interesting speculations, and it's good that we're here for a minute to say something about long discussions that took place seven years ago. I think this is an interesting viewpoint, and one Mass is worth discussing as much as it is. A senator has come with us. Then I want to pray. A senator explaining, because I feel that during the discussion, it has always been decided that Prime Minister's will is just the will of a greater part of the council, i.e. This is always consistent, but it is not always the case: What if there is a minority government or if there is a position that some government officials do not support the government in all matters? Does this mean, then, that it has become a denial of the decision to divide or not? Can the legislature of the European Court's work in a minority government allow the legislature to dictate matters in a way that it chooses? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u86	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I think that's the way it has to be interpreted. If there is an arrangement that allows the council to have any access to the affairs of these matters, this includes that any decision taken must be made by the majority of the council, regardless of whether the government is a minority government or a majority of the government. But the very point is clear. A senator that, of course, does not necessarily mean that the country is a majority government. Minor governments always need to seek their support. Although they are minor governments, they still need more than part of the council, big business, and small details. Of course, it may also be that the prime minister or according to national events in general is out of harmony with members of the council. [[The president calls.]] Thus, it may well be that in certain matters, a prime minister or government will not act because of individual opposition to the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u87	President. Maybe we'll find out why. A senator is only on the nature of these matters. Hv. A senator talks about big issues. I understand that when you're talking about money or something bigger. I don't see it as a particularly big matter how the company decides to organize its work. I agree more with my sister's class. A senator who is now in charge of Britain, where there is a minority government, was appointed minister of loneliness without any particular discussion during the council because of the Supreme Court. The prime minister there wanted to emphasize this matter. I think that's normal. I don't think it's normal when there's a situation that maybe there's a minority government. However, the government is the executive authority. Of course, it takes the majority of support for big matters and getting all their affairs through the council, but it's in the hands of one of the government's arms how it organizes its activities, I don't think it's normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u88	V.E.G. President. In our arrangement, there is an increasing gap between the executive authority and the legislator of the nation's administration or national or administrative order of various other countries, yet it is still that we believe that the legal order in the country is independent. Still, we set a law that foretells the order of the courts. By law, we say which courts should be in place and active in the land. We view it as necessary to have law binding on how that order is being implemented. Similarly, we have felt that the European Commission would have to work under a frame, a law frame, decided by the legislature. However, the point of view in this matter is, and of that we may not agree, whether or not the proposed scheme, the establishment of new schemes, their dislocation, is such a decision that it should be under the council or not. [[The president calls.]] But hopefully we'll have the opportunity to discuss it later if we discuss this topic with a legal bill rather than a discussion of a Senate decree that limits what we can talk about and what we can't do about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u89	The president insists that you discuss it later and respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u90	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's excellent technical review of this matter. I missed it, as was the case in a case. A senator, that there were more material discussions about the power of reason in the process of making such a change. There are various proposals on the increase in state funds of up to 300 million. K., we can call, connect this exchange. When we look at the overall cost of the recruitment as 9 billion or about that, I consider this to be a considerable amount of money and reflect a certain lack of respect for the treatment of taxes, since there is not a particularly strong support for this exchange, neither in the majority of the groups here on the second discussion nor in the case when it is specifically proposed. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: What does he think of putting up with 300 billion? K. costs for management unless there is a clear target line on what to submit to?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u91	V.E.G. President. I suppose, now, when we consider figures in this matter, that it is not just a matter of talking about the costs in the numbers he mentions related to the replacement of the scheme but, rather, of adding money to a group of cases on the way. That's what I've understood in this discussion. Of course, it is always possible to wonder how much money is spent in a single group of languages. However, I believe that the cost of making the decision to understand that this different part of the Ministry of Health is not a major factor in the overall context of the shares, especially in the case of lawsuits that are in themselves the most exorbitant legalities in the state in this respect. I've felt that too much ministry with too many lawsuits is not appropriate. I think it's more convenient for ministers to have the opportunity to focus more on certain areas, but not too much under. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think that's clear and sound evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u92	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. He sees this increase of 300 million not much money. This is 70 million due to the new head of the office at the Ministry of Presidency, 170 million to offset the costs of replacement of the Council of New Ministers and the office services of the Ministry of Health itself, and there are 40 million in an underestimation at the State Department's expense at their own time. I think that's a lot of money. I think it's important that the European Commission make a good statement when it comes to such a cost increase, what it does. What matters most, and I agree with it. A senator is the Ministry of Health, which holds at nearly half of the government fees. It has been said repeatedly, both within the administration and outside, that there are significant opportunities for great financial support, with increased cooperation between these classes of languages. [[The president calls.]] This is exactly the other way around. This is an extremely poor treatment for my tax dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u93	V.E.G. President. I don't think it's a bad use of public funds to divide these schemes. In spite of the importance of cooperation and the synergy of new relationships between the social sector and then the health sector, there is no rule against the intervention of the Ministry. However, I think, when we're talking about huge, varied, and important issues, it's important that there's a ministry that focuses on the core products that are in each area. I don't think that in any way, since there is some cooperation and efficiency, it would prevent it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u94	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking them. Councilmen who have spoken about this matter. I agree that it is important for the council to arrive at such decisions, get a voice, get a point of view. I agree with what. Birgir The Ármannsson of an annual son is that this is a reasonable procedure. It enables advisers to follow closely, to be more objective, to follow through. These are vast categories of issues and importance and of importance, equality, health, welfare, and housing, showing the priorities of the government, that they want to perform these tasks, and that they have the opportunity to work on their progress. If there is something wrong with such a situation, then it is probably more likely that the council will do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u95	V.E.G. President. Of course, I can't help but agree with the point of view. A senator in these matters. Of course, when making decisions on the matter of change, division of lawsuits, separation of counsel, and so on, it is based on some idea or plan of perfunctory issues and other such factors. I'm not going down because I think it's better to take care of one of the health issues and the other, as diverse as they are, in two separate problems and think that it will really be an improvement for both parties to get this clear special office to care for these matters. After the discussion that took place earlier, I think the cost will come back to you in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u96	A respectable president. I was just going to agree with Ármannsson, the yearly man's son, that this change is concerned with strengthening the success of the European Commission to policy-making and policy measures. in the reasonable use of public funds. These issues are of that nature. It is the division of the Ministry as a matter of course. A senator mentioned the welfare and social matters. There is an enormous amount of money and an enormous challenge that the government has determined to work on and deal with, and it has already raised its budget considerably. Similarly, she has made wise basic work on how the funds work best. Perhaps that's what's been criticized so far, that we've been spending 10 bucks. when we could have spent a dollar in the early stages of the situation, saving people either future difficulties or money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u97	V.E.G. President. You cannot help but agree with these words. paritaprevir Alex B. Stefánsson. When we reflect on some established organization, work modalization, or government workforce, it is not necessarily that everything is black or white in that material and that it can be found or calculated as the only correct solution. However, my opinion has been that the Ministry of Health, after the 2011 conversion, was too large, too many and different cases under the same Ministry, and that it is desirable to divide it in the manner proposed to promote administrative and policy policies in both areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u98	V.E.G. President. The person here decided not to offer a special opinion on this matter but to appear and explain his opinion on the matter in a few words. In itself, we do not have much to do with an already determined object because here we are merely confirming the mind of a prime minister who will be placed before the President of Iceland, such as the 15th century B.C.E. The constitution, the number of ministers and their assignments. In this case, what the left government did in 2009 -2013 - is somehow winding down. At that time, four groups of languages were united in two departments. The Ministry of Justice took transportation into the State Department, and this was almost completed by the Ministry of Justice. Happily, the people withdrew. Then, in 2011, the Ministry of Health was created at about the same time, and this cost a huge amount of money. If I recall correctly, this work cost 600 million dollars at its time for monotonous expenses. This was shown in the answer to a question asked by the person mentioned above. Secretary of finance, probably in 2014 or 2015, showed that the four advisers combined had little, no economic success of the procedure, i.e. The economic advantages that were certainly achieved during those years were due to the economic demand that appeared after the crash and had nothing to do with this match that was not to cost at all and cost 600 million at its time, it was to save 300 million a year without anyone being exposed to it. It was a natural saying that didn't work out, and they knew it would never work out. Walls and radios were going in three houses in Reykjavík, a month's notice, to get all of this together. In itself, I understand that even if it costs some money, they are now winding down this nonsense. However, I agree equally with what my name, Víglundsson, w. A senator, said earlier, is a perfect opportunity to adjust his plans. In fact, there is one thing I have to admit that when this was done in 2011, I knew that when 17 office managers were suddenly at home in the Department of Employment, without an office - in one ministry. It claimed to itself that there was an advantage that was very possible and carried out. If we similarly take the total office manager at the Ministry of Health as it is today, I expect they will even decrease as the Ministry shrinks, they'll have two Ministry Directors, etc. That's what I wanted to point out. Then there is another aspect of this matter, indicating that these structures now do not appear to have much direction, firm, or even Polish. What are they doing here? The equal cases are presented to the prime minister. You have a feeling that a social and equal minister should be replaced by some other matter. They pick humanitarian languages, rip them out of the Environmental Ministry, and post them to the Ministry of Children's Affairs. I have to admit, Supreme. Mr President, I don't completely understand that this procedure is due to a statement or that it has been strongly claimed that in itself the Ministry of Social Affairs is not necessarily prepared to take over this category, there is not enough knowledge, etc. However, there is another question that I wondered about in this regard. At a meeting of the Commission and monitoring committees, representatives of the largest stakeholders arrived in the mobilization program, including the U.S. Industrial, engineering, and the Union of Icelandic rural society. They all told the same story. First of all, the overdose is gone. Why are not all the issues, organizational matters, man - made operations and the Committee on Resources? Why are these matters not all taken and transferred to the Department of Transport and Division? Why on earth? No, then men will take the workers' business and throw them down in the Children's Department. I'm sorry, this isn't much of a professional thing. I don't like professionalism. I don't like to listen to the words we've been given on the Committee from the professionals and stakeholders who said, "This isn't gonna make things simple, as people say, " That's the big end point of this project. ' Buildings, organizations, and other activities will still be in three problems, and this may not be very efficient, tops of course. President. Each time someone changes his policies, they are to be with individual governments, they change the names of recruitments that in themselves cost quite a bit of money. This requires changing the entire page of the scheme, i.e. literature, envelopes, etc. These things need to be changed every time. As long as I remember, the Ministry of Social Affairs has been called, very close back in time, the Department of Social Affairs and Social Services, and now it's the Department of Social Affairs and Child Services. What would happen if we got a environmental minister who had a special interest in waste? Did we get them the Department of Environmental and Waste? I think it's a free word. We don't need this. The Ministry of Social Affairs can only be called Social Services on its own, and it doesn't have to be embellished with some special emphasis or interests for the government of any particular time. It is the government itself to show interest and power in their actions, not by some anonymous title. I can see by itself, that men are winding down the crap being made in the days of the left government, the one who cost a load of money and saved little, if anything, and I expect this change to bring about some visible gain, if not financially, professionally. As I say again, I don't know what it's like to put the workers' business on to the Children's Ministry without bringing anything else in. It's what they say because of social housing, this is what they're doing. Yes, it's a social minister, but as I say again, the Aggressors say, the planning has to follow this, i.e. Organization, and the decision-making committee to make it efficient and simple. If this is to become effective and simple for those who work by these laws and under these institutions and need them to do this. But they either didn't have the courage to do it or not the time to do it or something, and this is now blown out. I'd say so, and I put it on the Committee at its time, that it would have been even better to store this project only for a little while, and then to take a full transfer of all the workers to the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, where it would have become a more effective partnership and a better service to those who need to be used. But, no, no, they just take the equal cases off the Department of Social Affairs and pass him an Enforcement Institute instead of a domino effect. It's not a good board of directors, chief. President. This is no particular policy, and this ain't no politics. There's no evidence that humans really want to make reforms. On page 18. 2 of the leading aluminium of the greater part is natural style for a greater proportion of things that do not want to strategize the Ministers. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The more part feels that it might be viewed as how the system is in other parts of the North countries. That's exactly what the professionals pointed at. They pointed out how this was in Denmark and Sweden, organizational matters, and housing matters with the same minister, synergistic, and interaction. But, no, they decide to do this. I'll say again, chief. President, this is not professional. There's no direction on this. There's no politics in this. It is not new with this government, which is made up of two opposing poles, with one aid bed with them. No wonder such a arrangement is made! However, I wondered, " Can we expect this to happen in the next few years that governments that are formed, hopefully about some ideal, but I fear that it will be like this, that they will be formed for a number of cabinets, and then we'll get some administrative bastard? ' Then, until the necessary number of ministers has arrived, they divide the plans. It has nothing to do with professional or political or anything other than just a number of the Ministers' chairs. This is not a good development. I find it challenging to avoid taking advice and arguments from those most in need of the service and really need to think that in one place there will be a professional administrative unity that will be kept out of this important legal order to which organizational, humanitarian, and housing are involved, that this will be a minister. Where else should this be in itself, but for transport and rural government ministers where the rural communities have the planning? Farming is basically a major factor in organizing new buildings and new areas of construction. Why not take such good advice to heart rather than to do the same? That's for this reason, the highest. The president here decided not to offer a special opinion. As I say, we are faced with a decision made. It does not in itself matter whether more things and smaller things have special opinions on this matter. It goes through like this, unfortunately, since the more part of an administration and monitoring committee did not have the effect, the power or the courage that was necessary to change the case in the management of the Committee. It would have appeared on the greater part, not the smaller part, but the minority and the opinion expressed in the present - day talk of the individual. Of course, more of that would have appeared. The committee was to make the needed adjustments in the matter so that it would be better and for some good fortune. I'll say again, I understand the antagonist itself. I can see that men want to get off the path of the soul - souled left government, with that in 2009 -2013, in fact, out of moneylessness, and then the natural intention of throwing these advisers together with great cost and no savings, was decided to do the job. They thought they were doing something good, but they weren't. In this respect, I understand that the Ministry of Health is being replaced. I'm reiterate, though, chief. Mr President, this is not done on professional grounds. This is not done on grounds of proper government care. This is not done on terms of policy or politics at all. This is random for experimentation, and I predict that within one to two years, we will receive a new synonym in which we will be asked to confirm some other order of the Ministers' office, not later than the next election when men have to start playing with their people on the park. But it has nothing to do with politics, it has nothing to do with professionalness, and it has nothing to do with financial organization. That's very sorry, chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u99	Mr. President. I'm not going to ask much of my opinion on this, but looking to the executive planning, it's going to be a very high priority for efficiency. What matters is the high cost of the management board, how much money goes into the recruitment business itself. This case seems to me to reflect a lack of respect for expenses. There is no greater effort in committee partying to argue on the benefits to be derived from the intervention of the Ministry of Health. This is contrary to what was so much discussed in conjunction with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health at its time, the main purpose of the cohesion was the stronger, more powerful office that would be better equipped to deal with the enormous and complex tasks that are falling below the Ministry, but even more so as to use them as a means of cooperation and cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry's well - being. It's clear, and you can hear it everywhere, where you come, and when you talk to a professional in this area that there's our biggest opportunities. Today we spend about 50% of the government funds to these two problems, at least 450 billion. It is quite clear that with the nation's aging, increased health demand, increased well - being requirements, these costs will just increase for us. It requires politicians that we show some perspective on how these matters can be better adjusted, how to add more fully to what might be called an investment in the welfare system, that we are spending such a thing. The area of social activity, with increased emphasis on recycling, is a variety of social support that we know can save substantial expenses in the medical field. Of course, the same is true of the opposite, that there is proper priorities within the medical system so temporary health problems, e.g. not for permanent disability, etc. They're watching this in a conglomerate. This is not the smallest attempt to support this decision, and that is simply because it is, of course, only political. Counsellors are more comfortable with the entirely separate department than with two Ministers within one Ministry. All I can expect is that we can expect soon from this government to have a conquistador of the Department of Employment Regression. Well, that's gotta lie in the very nature of it. As a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, we're only here in the budget, spending 300 million on the cost of the administration because of these changes and insurmountable changes due to the intervention of the State Department. I think this money is quite better spent in other groups of languages. At the same time, there was a planned increase in the cost of older citizens and disability to zero. This shows a lack of respect for the financial expenses of the state's budget. This is a group of governments that do not treat public funds well, have no clear or powerful priorities for that capital, have no sense of government management. The key of this must be to keep the financial cost of the state funds down to make sure that we have the most money between our hands to the lawsuits, to support people, to action in the health system, to support the clients in the welfare system, and so on. This emphasis is not to be found here. It is disappointing. What really makes me more disappointed is that I feel that these groups have no perspective on the welfare issues. There is no comprehensive view of the interaction between social and health care. It's just a political bitch in the narrowest sense on the comforts of ministers who want to work in separate recruitments, not on what harmony can be achieved by increased cooperation within the Ministry. It even came. ... in the review of the Icelandic Union's Association of Societys in its time together with its advisers, as the organization rests on this issue today, that there was an enormous opportunity, but it never followed a collective policy of welfare and what went on. There was never any cooperation within the Ministry. Of course, this does not happen on its own; it takes political leadership to achieve such cooperation. Much work is needed within the council, and most people should know who have come to such unity, whatever organizational unity, that it takes time and effort to reach the goal. It doesn't happen by itself. But worse, this roundness of the Board of Management Board means, of course, that it will never be accomplished. When we are constantly raising the Ministry for political needs of each more part, that means that there will never be a career peace within these same schemes to get clear focus on their subjects. It has been well - known in Icelandic administration that our Ministry has been regarded as very small in all contexts, very weak in many respects. At the same time, we are laying on very high standards for public financial matters. There, an enormous task is that the Ministry has a clear view of its problems, especially their expense factors. We have seen within the financial committee that the Ministry is often in dire need of simply the kind needed to attack the necessary diagnostics. Therefore, I believe that the policy set here in 2011 by means of the advisers was reasonable, reasonable to increase the units and better equip them for these important tasks. Here, in fact, it is being carried off without it, so I say again and again, that there is no evidence of what shall be of such a change. But at least we know the cost side, which is about that. 300 million additional costs each year. I think it's sad. As I say, there is no respect for taxes, and worse, I think it reflects a lack of perspective in the incredibly important categories of welfare. Finally, I want to say something. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson of Sæmund, on the premises. It does not take long to establish the key to finding a solution in housing, especially in the forwarding of housing for all social groups, of course, to the community. There's no point in uniting the members of the Council if our communities aren't there. Since this was the step of uniting the housing cases under one roof, which I think is very sensible, they should have ended up in the local government department department department department department department department department. It is simply where, at any given time, the greatest key to housing problems lies, which is, of course, the organizational affairs of the rural community and the involvement of the government and the local government level at any given time. I know, as if by my own personal experience, that the Department of Social Affairs was very minor in the housing, where two of the most important factors were involved, the one involved in the construction principle and the CREEP Institute, and the rest of the planning and the local Ministry, were outside the Ministry. That's why, as soon as I'm glad that there's a step towards uniting these things under one roof, I think it would have been better to see that the task had been fully completed and the seminars were placed at the local Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u100	Your Honorable President I recommend two Congress resolutions on telecommunications programmes. One involves communication, network security, mail, and the management of Iceland's National Publications Index for 2019-22033, and the other includes a strategy for 2019◯2023 which is part of and within the framework of the 15-year policy. The preparation of policy began at the beginning of 2018 and was set up by a project committee holding on to policy activities. A formal consultation with performance, teamwork and stakeholders began in June. The Project Committee then concluded that the two parties' odors recommended here have been taken into consideration by the comments received through the consultations of the conferences in October. The proposals presented here are in accordance with government policy, the emphasis of the minister, the other public plans, and the results of open consultation. A communication plan is now submitted for the third time. The first communication program was adopted in 2005 and the next in 2012. It is my conviction that these two telecommunications programs have led to the successful development of communication, which put us in first place in communication and information technology in 2017, according to the Internationalexchange Union. Thus, experience shows that ambitious plans and follow-up can be very effective both for our employment and for the more important things, for the people of the country, as well as for urban areas. It is therefore my pleasure to submit a third form of communication program that I intend to run us even further so that we maintain our position as one of the world's leaders in the interior of communication. A communication plan is now submitted with only a change in format from previous schedules with the aim of making its resources shorter and more specific. It covers considerable and predictable technological development, review of available policy and cohesion policies on communications, network security, mail, and the affairs of Iceland's National Publications Index. The integration of all policies and programmes under the Ministry's topic areas is also taken into account. Surely, there is good reason to revise policy in the issues presented here. The world's countries face a real challenge when it comes to the fourth industrial revolution, where communication, information technology, Internet security, and artificial intelligence play a key role. Illustrating the changes we already face is also happening. progress in technology, increased self-activity, rapidly developing digital relationships, rapidly changing market business models and rapid changes in EU regulations. It can also be noted that the world's state is now facing increasing national threats and needs Icelanders to deal with them seriously. For the mail service, it is a real challenge to deal with the rapid reduction in the number of messages and growth in the network trades using the related packages within the country and between countries. In this regard, I would like to mention that one of the most important databases in the country, the Constitution, needs renewal to meet requirements that may include: It's made by the General and the public. A respectable president. I believe it is proper to point out that in the program there are three major issues that are subject to the requirements for special funds. First, there is an introduction to a so-called MNI directive, which provides the basis for a fundamental improvement in the national network security. Second, it is funding at the government's potential cost in securing minimum post service. Third, special fiber optics, such as the third telecommunication to Europe, ring - linking of optic cables on Eastern Europe, and reliefs in ensuring the safety of important communications infrastructure. It should be noted that the national campaign of Iceland has already been funded with light, but this project was actually under the fiscal resolution of the European Environment Agency at the beginning of the period, but it has proved to be a very effective project to get high - speed connections out into the scattered regions. Except for this, there are a number of preparatory projects ahead of us that are related to the technological development that is under way. It refers to the fourth industrial revolution, the fifth generation of laptops, 5G, the sectionnet, etc. and are linked to these activities in transport. The schedule presented here involves an important future and a goal to the next 15 years. A key element of the focus and action of the programme is trust and security, for without security, trust in the rapidly disappearing services of either financial, transport, or new technology such as the Internet can be found. The Internet offers many opportunities to improve our ministry and to enrich our lives. Already, there is an integral part of most services being rendered. However, this widely integrated use also poses a risk of serious breakdowns in the security and, as a result, reduces the competitiveness of society's society from a similar level of security to that of our neighboring countries. The policy, therefore, highlights the widespread use of public and community security. Good communication is one of the reasons why we live here today's independent nation. Access to intense and stable communications has a major impact on the development of economics in Iceland, where they open up opportunities for every form of electronic service, network shop, telecommunications, and recreation, regardless of place to name a number of things. The national competitiveness of international markets has high levels of communication services, high - speed accession and the use of information technology and electronic services in general, both within the country or between Iceland and other countries. It should be noted that the law's policy on communication and the related management plan will be reviewed at least every three years. This is important, since there is a series of developments within which a communication program can and will undoubtedly make rapid changes. Therefore, regular and rapid review is required. Annual reports will be made on the progress of the communication programme targets and projects. At the same time, regular updates are being made on the Ministry's Communication Programme. A respectable president. I have now explained the general point of the proposal, and I suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environmental and transport committees and other sources
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u101	Mr. President. I'd like to begin by celebrating this council-sounding proposal for a telecommunications program at the highest level. We're introduced and submitted to the council by the secretary of the transport and the government. There are a lot of good suggestions, for example, for the first time in communication to 15 years, in line with the 2018 integration and harmonization laws. It is good and good, and it is a good work ethic that will benefit all of us if we begin to work more closely in that way. There are at least two questions I would like to ask the highest. Minister to respond and connect with the cause of molding a new communication program. As noted in the synopsis of the synopsis proposal, there are a number of refinements in the seminary's policy and four factors, including The greatest challenges facing the nations are the fourth industrial revolution in which communication, information technology, Internet security, and artificial intelligence play a key role. Then, of course, there are the growing threats on the Internet that we, like all other countries, face and face, and face a real deal. I'd like to hear a little more about the dangers on the Internet, both how it fits into the Senate resolutions and the implementations and what ideas it's having. Ministers are about how we can deal with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter for a good question. It's true that as we're building up these electronic data services then suddenly a new threat, a new species of crime, which, unfortunately, we are constantly reminded, and I think very many companies in Iceland will be exposed every day. That is why it is very important that we have a strong security system and all the equipment we can perform. In larger lands, even more than hundreds of people are organized to do so. What we're going to do is an introduction to a so-called MNI directive, which is a bill that has already been distributed at the Council and I hope I can measure up in the next few days, next week, last week. These factors are handled in a mighty way by promoting security forces, CERT-IS, and all equipment. When we complete our discussion at the council and at the council committees, it takes effect, which in fact, will not be until 2020, if I remember correctly, we will gradually bring in more defenses, more effort to stay on watch and prepare for the worst and prepare as possible. A key element in this, in fact, is cooperation and cooperation with other countries. We have considerable cooperation with the northern countries, but we are also as one nation of NATO naturally in significant contact with the parties, for of course they view this new threat as a new instrument for war. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u103	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It's true what he came on, that increasing online threats are reaching into security and defence and coming in. we have a history when renovating our national security policy. It's good to hear the emphasis. Minister of that subject. Another thing I would like to hear about is part of a goal that we can find in the Parliament's resolution and the environmental communication process. As the Parliamentary resolution proposals aim to reduce the global, regional, and local environmental impact of communications, mail services, and the services of Iceland's National Publications Index. I'd like to hear how to do it. A minister sees this as a reality, hopefully, and, of course, guided by the interests of all and the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u104	A respectable president. That's a very important question. A senator, in fact, referred to the government's climate targets in this communication program. In fact, communication in itself is environmentally friendly because in most cases it saves trips, it saves transport. For example, the number of letters in the mail service has decreased over a few years from 80 million a year to 20 million in the current year, and the number has fallen even faster. This is because e - mails are already being sent, and communication has begun. This means, of course, that there is less reason to deliver mail every day, as we have reduced the number of mail days on the whole country to two per week, which is a state of state. So this supports one another if we can improve communication so that all Icelanders can sit at the same table. That is why Iceland's project is so light - related, since we can give all the homes of the country the opportunity to sit at the same table when it comes to the important service of getting an education and shopping and working over the Internet, not having to go into the workplace. In itself, telecommunication, increased communication, improved communication, security communication, is the most environmentally friendly thing we can do. This may lead to a loss of meeting together, but I hope that people get the excuse to take a walk or drive occasionally each week to visit their relatives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u105	Mr. President. We're here discussing a very important and important document that is the focus of the country's communications. The course is set for 15 years, followed by a five-year plan. As shown in the case of the highest. Minister, it may be mentioned here, has been very successful in communications in the country in recent years. It does not exist by itself, and it probably has been shaped in the force of policy factors in previous programmes. So how successful we have been, what has been the global success, should be given because we are at the top of this list of international telecommunications. There are some factors listed in the Action Programme, e.g. A fiber - optic cable on Soy took us to the North Fjord, Nesmore, through Snowgrounds. I think it's a lot of safety element to create a circle connection in that area and promote it. We've only been there one way, so people have been exposed to distractions. The communications are greatly enhanced in the region by creating this circuit connection. Our efforts, Iceland, have been very successful in light - related efforts, and we are determined to complete it in the countryside, far and wide throughout the country, in 2021. There's gonna be an end to this. I'm asking if the highest. A minister had something to consider with smaller villages all around the country, perhaps a village with less than 500 people - similar campaigns as Iceland's light - bound in the countryside in recent years. I'm asking if some people at the Ministry have checked it out and the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer some very interesting questions, Trausti's Njáll, Friðbertsson. It is true that, as I mentioned in my introduction, the fact that we have reached the world's highest level in these matters is remarkable. We won South Korea and Denmark, which are second and third. We have been on top of this list, but we have achieved our first position, and it is an ambitious task to say that we are going to remain among the best nations of the world. Without a doubt, Iceland's project has had a light - related effect, as we have simply said, " We're going to get fiber optics into each rural home. ' It has been our priority, and we have it financed in financial programmes and programmes presented in the five-year Action Programme. So hopefully, in 2020, at the latest 2021 - and there is money. There are other factors that make us take first place. We have even. very powerful commercial telecommunications companies, and we've been looking for them to put their hands around urban areas. You have been able to have a light net that may be as close to it as possible without the connection directly into your home. But it is not surprising that this demand will arise, as we see here in the capital area. There, in fact, two, three, or more cables have been placed in each house - perhaps overinvented there. Nevertheless, this market is competitive, and market companies are struggling to be able to serve and sell their products. I hope and trust that they are ready to participate. This, however, is one of the things that we in the Ministry have wondered about, how to deal with if what I actually don't believe is that the companies don't deal with this themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u107	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I worked in association with the NATO Council as chairman of NATO Iceland, where much discussion has taken place throughout the year and in recent years on the Internet security issues and such factors. We have the artificial intelligence and are entering the fourth industrial revolution and an enormous technological development. It has become generally believed that this is the only major threat in the world, that there are the Internet security and systems, whether by telecommunications or by electrical systems, such as distribution and so forth, as we are learning about here in our country and the Landsnets have had. The current policy document has several points associated with these issues. What I may primarily want to ask about is this foreign work, a partnership on the Internet security. This was shown in the case of the highest. Ministers just before, in previous speeches, we're cooperating with the North countries and NATO and other things. I think it's extremely important that we get to be part of a bigger unit in these matters. The Nazis have set up a center. The British set up their Internet security center last year, a great institution, and people are so concerned about this. Personally, I am very interested that we may be able to get closer to those issues. Long - term competitiveness is fundamental to ensuring Internet security, communication, and other factors related to this. I ask if he could only deepen the discussions involved in this foreign partnership that would be linked to foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u108	A respectable president. That's right. That's right. A senator, this threat is indeed there. It is foreign to many. This will include the following: As to strengthening our awareness, people can see the threats to this new world - I say, even though we've had it for quite a few years, there's always some way they're opening up for people who want to use it for different purposes. Key points, like whatnot. A senator entered, cooperating with other nations. We have a huge cooperation with the North countries. Our assignment also helps us in this regard, but we need to do more. That's why at the time of Oxford, if I recall correctly, we got to make an assessment comparable to what they do in other countries. They've made reports and have come to the country and interviewed a number of people to identify the situation. It was the basis for understanding where we were in and what we needed to add and then is the basis for one of our NNIS series on security, which path we need to go, and has helped us too, and will help us in various side decisions and setting up projects that we need to do. One other factor is that we simply need more knowledge into the country, and that's why humans have cooperated with Norwegian university. This is where experts from Oxford have taught. They're a full course. The person has been interested in coming to the country, where both university students, university experts, and experts in the community have the potential to gain this knowledge. Students who may open their eyes to the fact that there is an exciting area in which we need to learn more about foreign schools and to maintain this point of communication, for that is the key to this, as it were many other aspects of cooperation, cooperation, cooperation, cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u109	A respectable president. We'll discuss two Parliamentary decrees together, one on the other, about telecommunication policies for the period 201952033 and one about a five - year communication program. Thank you very much. A minister for this donation and, in fact, have to admit that I have not completely read the policy. I'd like to start in particular by mentioning it and thanking the Department of Transport and Development for very well-worked jobs when it comes to the coordination and integration of the programmes under the Ministry. I've had a small presentation of the work that has taken place within the Ministry, and I think it's really important, because in many ways we've done well in setting up all kinds of policies. Of course, it is extremely important that they also be united and integrated, so I rejoice in the very things being done in the Ministry in that area. In fact, there were two or three things I wanted to express especially in this discussion, one about the last speakers. paritaprevir The name of Njáll the Trausti of Friðbertsson and the highest. A minister gave a fine answer, regarding the online security issues that I agree to are extremely important. The minister answered it to--I think the Oxford University went over it, has a model like this, and evaluated the status of the local Internet security system. You see, what is very important to me is what is set down in the programme to promote education, a wide range of online security education, to help a person reach, e.g. During competition and conferences and other challenges. I think it's more important than we might realize. Then I'd like to do this online for a little electronic management. We have often been proud to be so long when things happen, maybe especially because there are so many people here with Internet connections and computers that we should have a very good access to creating a very good electronic government. Sadly, though, when we are being measured and compared with other nations, we are very relaxed. We have a lot of work to do. And then perhaps there's something to integrate planning and integration across the Ministry and on the contrary to the agencies how we work on these issues. We certainly have all the resources, and we should do so much better when it comes to developing electronic government. Of course, at the same time, it is very important that your Internet safety is working properly. Now it wasn't completely clear to me before I stepped into the pont on whether the Constitution fell to the Department of Transport and Division. - I'm glad I'm at the highest. Minister nods; for I see that there is a considerable mention of a record. At point 12, under the target number 3, on the practicality and efficiency of communications, it is said that the national database will be revised systematically in initiatives to meet changes in legislation and to improve the self-activating reports in a national file, and to eliminate reformal fraud and meet increasing Community requirements for information on individual rights and status. Then I can't let it pass, I don't know if it's the database or the computer system exactly or what it is, I'm gonna let myself use the words: back in the ancient age. I'm going to take an example of another subject that we've discussed. Parents share custody, and a child actually lives in two homes. It seems that it is somehow very difficult to get messages out to someone who needs to think that there are two parents who really have custody of the child. I'll take an example: A mother took her son to a bank and planned to start a bank account, which may mean that the son has a registered home with the father. They said: "No, no, we can't start a bank account here, he must come with his father, where he has a registered legal home, or you need to have confirmation from a national file that you really have custody of your child. - It's totally ridiculous. I realize that schools have somehow solved this with their internal systems, such as Mentor and others, where they have opened the door to everyone. But when it comes to so little things, such as making the example I know, that's not good. And I also know examples when parents are buying home insurance, so it seems that it is very difficult to convince the person in some way that more people live in the home than there are actually a registered legal home. I know we have a bill here, and we've been over this. I know you're ancient. The State Department Minister Ólöf Nordal had a report on how we could deal with children with two homes, but there's only one small factor that should be so much easier if the database and the system were in order. I'd like to get the top of it. Minister to speed up this process as far as possible, for I think that in many ways the legal environment is in good condition when it comes to these matters. But it is often as if the computer says no when it comes to the project. Maybe that's the thing I'd like to mention. But then we've also entered the mail case in our policy. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Control will take on the tremendous changes currently being made to the postal services, which include a huge reduction in the number of messages and the number of packages being delivered. The private right of Iceland's e-mail service will be removed by law and the price of a postmarket competition will be opened. There will continue to be continuous access to minimum mail service across the country, i.e. services Now I know the highest. A minister has recommended a bill on the environment and transport board in this regard. And we've got a little bit of an emergency loan to Iceland's mail on the budget. So I want us to consider how that service should be done in the long term, for it is perfectly clear that we have actually run into a ditch with it today, and the request for this crisis shows that it really is. It may be on the bill. I don't feel that it totally takes care of these materials. But I think, in spite of all the fine trust we have in the government of Iceland and the government that the politicians also have to make a decision on how these matters should be handled for a long time. But I don't have it any further and thank you for this contribution, and I'm urging us on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u110	A respectable president. As the president said, this is a recommendation for a resolution of a strategy for 2019-022 on action against violence and its consequences. The rationalization proposal presented here, in spite of a Senate document, remains that there is only a social and social justice minister, a body of social and equality, justice, health, as well as educational and cultural issues. It has a long history, or since 2014, when they Harðardóttir Harderdóttir, then social and housing minister, Ólöf Nordal, then Minister of Ministers of the Interior, and Illugi Gunnarsson, then minister of education and culture, signed a declaration of cooperation against violence and its consequences. By the declaration the Ministers confirmed their desire to work together against violence in Icelandic society and its destructive influence as well as its desire to expand education and prevention work, improve cooperation, and cooperation in reducing violence, as well as in promoting cooperation with violent research. As a result, a commission group led by the Ministry of Health, appointed by two representatives from each of the three advisers. His role was to oversee the cooperation and to work out a plan for action against violence and its consequences. During the operating group's working time, significant changes have occurred. Especially is this government - oriented change. During the period of work, however, there have been two cases of government change, the Ministers of the Councils involved in this decree and have been accepted after the formation of a new government, all of them agree that this important project was to be carried out. Second, significant social changes have occurred that show us more than ever that violence is a serious social ill, especially sexual violence that has been exposed to the everyday reports of individuals who have gone under the mark #methoo. The Declaration also stated that both national and regional consultations should be made, between social services, child welfare, educational and health systems, police and the prosecution. Attention should especially be given to children's violence, close contacts, sexual, physical, and physical violence, and to disabled people and other vulnerable groups. The key was to improve the process of prevention and investigation of violence. The country was invited to meet in the region, but the country was divided into nine areas, the Southland, the Northern Pacific, the Northland West, the East, the West, the Westland, the Southnes, the Western Islands, and the capital region. The objective was to bring together key members of each region, including social services, expert services, rural areas, child - welfare authorities, police, health services, and school leaders, and others with the objective of laying the groundwork for regional cooperation on anti-violence and its consequences. The meeting with the country's settlement has been established, but the conversation was different between areas. There was great interest and willingness among the locals in promoting cooperation in this field. These include: provide evidence of regional cooperation in this field for new projects in the north and east of the country. Following the meeting of the group, representatives of the project have built bridges, broken walls have gone to the same area, and efforts have been made to address defenses and responses to violence in close relationships. In the preparation of the Parliamentary arrangement, a high priority has been given to extensive consultations, including in a large work meeting conducted in the mud at the beginning of 2016. There were numerous members, such as representatives of the institutions, rurals, university, free partnerships, and others who work and identify themselves in this area. In addition to the success of the work meeting, the steering team has had many meetings with experts in their field. The strategy focuses on the UN's global objectives for sustainable development, including the United Nations. it says that peaceful, sustainable communities for all humans should be promoted, always providing access to justice systems, and building up efficient and responsible institutions for all humans in all areas. Then the plan of action will take into account the European Parliament's Convention on Prevention and Combining Violence against Women and Home Violence, UN Convention on Discrimination of Women, the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People, the European Council's Convention on Human Use, the European Council's Convention on Sexual Misuse and Sexual Misuse, and the United Nations Convention Against Social Crime, and the Protocol to prevent, fight, and punish the lives of people, especially women and children. The primary objective of the procedure is to promote prevention and education issues, improve the work programme and treatment within the justice system, and promote the support of tolerance. Special emphasis is given to the following elements: First, violence in Icelandic society will not be tolerated. Second, there will be progressive training and prevention of any kind of violence, especially in the school system, in the sports and youth field, in the workplace and in the digital world. Third, to contribute to the overall improvement in the treatment of violence within the justice system, resulting in increased efficiency, better communication between institutions and enlightened work environment. Fourth, there is immediate access to information and services provided by victims of violence. Fifth, that cooperation and co-ordination will be greatly enhanced in the services of victims of violence, including ... betweenthe heads of state and rural society and the free partners. The operation is divided into three parts. First, it includes prevention and education, affecting healthy communication, counseling, and early reactions. Second, reacting to violence, with emphasis on improving the procedure and handling within the justice system. Third, authority with emphasis on coordination and cross-cutting cooperation in the services of victims of violence. Many of the acts take place in the rights and protection of children from violence. They are particularly careful about prevention and training and fall under Part A but they also have several steps in Part B to protect children and improve their treatment of matters, section C of authority, cooperation and coordination, on the other hand, the main issue of management, support and consultation in adult tolerance issues of violence, but there is no suggestion for child abuse procedures. The rights of child care, advice, and other measures for child abuse depend on the rights of child protection. In all, the 28 operations are complete, and here I am going to give examples of some of them. First, I would like to mention that the educational material for child - care programs, together with staff, is provided with guidelines for its use and reaction, following education, including the provision of child protection, but there are generally fewer reports for child protection from high school than among high school students. The procedure is part of helping staff of preschools to detect as soon as possible if a child is violent and is reported to the Child Services Committee. Another action involves appointing a group to identify existing sources of institutions and partnerships working with children in order to obtain information from a criminal list and to assess the need for potential improvements. The purpose of the procedure is to ensure that subjects with a perp will not be hired for treatment of children. An example of yet another procedure is supported by a service center for victims of violence in the north. This is similar to the resources of the capital. It will provide the same service as advice for violent adults, including sexual abuse, close relationships violence, or cathartic tolerance and/or prostitution. It is then suggested that a more broad range of measures be taken to prevent repeated acts of violence. A group of people I have appointed now work to map and define the need for adult victims for violence. The control team involved in this arrangement has also discussed a number of issues not included in this program, but it is considered appropriate to conduct. These include assistance to victims of harassment at work, where there is a great need to improve access to expert advice and upbuilding treatment. Then there is a need for a global awareness of the need for violence, whether at work, in social work, or in home, but it could be done by a large community contract. The need for further studies in the field of violence has also been discussed. that manifestations of violence, its scope, its prevention, the access of the justice system, and the status of tolerance. Such research is essential to government policy in this area. This arrangement highlights the fact that such assessments are achieved by independent health professionals in the field of social and health sciences, but three major research is currently being carried out. One is the health - related cost, another to obtain detailed information on the extent and nature of violence in Iceland, and the third to the impact on women's health. At the end, I would like to mention specifically the Department of Justice's documents on the treatment of sexual abuse within the legal defense system and the proposal for the actions of 2018 and 22022 already approved by the government. It is, in fact, there. To find a procedure that the helms of this synonym spoke specifically and pointed to the justice system and vulnerable groups, such as the introduction to the testing of disabled patients in cases where there is suspicion of violence toward slow - hearted people. This is a very important point, and I am aware that the cooperation between the justice system and the justice department is taking place. The premise that the Council arrangement will succeed is that the Ministry, which will be four in the next year, was working together on this proposal, though there were four ministers. Then each act builds on the basis of a designated partner's helping hand in hand. Together, we are able to succeed and are expected to have the Ministry involved in the Parliamentary arrangement formally agree on the follow-up of these measures. The Ministry is also expected to prepare and offer annual meetings for the National Conference, where representatives of the Council, localities, local communities, free partnerships, research institutions, and others who allow themselves to make these issues an opportunity to compare their books, introduce new research results, and promote reforms with the aim of reducing and preventing violence. The situation of action in this synonym would include the following: introduced to the annual meetings. With this resolution, a valuable opportunity and a common stage would arise to extract new tasks that contribute to improved and secure society. Therefore, it is our desire that we always experience ourselves safely wherever we are and that we can be confident that justice and appropriate treatment will always be there when violence and its consequences are met. As I told you at the outset, this is a synoptic proposal made by four halls of counsel and a huge deal of importance to bring her in to the council. I hope she has a good and professional discussion, and I have requested that after this discussion she will be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u111	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. No one gets in the mind that this is a serious subject and is urgent. I'm not going to do much materially at this point, but I just want to pray to the highest level. Minister to explain something to me. As he mentioned, there are four agencies involved in this synopsis proposal. It speaks of a future vision and a subject. It speaks of prevention and instruction, improvement in response and justice in the justice system. It is repeated that violence refers to sexual, and especially sexual violence, digital imaging, and the viewing of reports and discussions that appear in the community under # I too am and #metoo. I took it this way from my vision and the subjects. I then have in front of me a press release from the Ministry of Presidency on Work Programme and System Control on Total Improvements on the subject of sexual violence presented in the government. If I also read it, follow the implementation of a sex crime control program within the justice system. The Court's rights of violations and, in the context of digital sexual abuse policies, should reexamine new policies on pre-and educational matters in terms of sexual violence and harassment. The task group includes making suggestions on how to react to the #methoo revolution, both within the board of directors and also in the general community. I have to say, chief. Minister, to me these goals and subjects are so similar that I cannot quite figure out who this transition is and why it would require a special interest in the Ministry of Presidency if it didn't fit into this. I would love to pray to the highest. Minister to explain this to me only.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Yes, it may be true that what is presented in this Senate resolution, which includes a large number of actions and measures and measures on one 203/430 pages, is somehow similar to the emphasis laid on the Ministry of Presidency, and perhaps least after the much discussion that took place here during the last winter after the #methoo Revolution. There may be some overlap between them. But I don't think there should be any harm to the conduct of this case. Because in the case we are working here, we have a very well - defined plan to take action, which is of the nature of the responsibility of the individual advisers or institutions. I don't think it's ever going to hurt, although the Ministry of Presidency is also working on issues related to the #methoo revolution, as I came in earlier, for it is a very good partnership between council members when it comes to these matters and is even. includes regular meeting and being directed by the Ministry of Presidency, as with the Ministers' Committees. It's where all the Ministers have ministers who set up this schedule. Yes, there is a certain overlap there. Nevertheless, I still think the extensive plan we have here that has been developed for quite a while between individual recruitments and institutions is just a positive matter. It's a good thing that she's in here, and it's important that she get a gang in the council, despite working on similar matters in the rest of the board, which is just positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u113	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It is true that it is very good if, as most people, are thinking about these matters and trying to achieve them. However, I worry that even tasks will overlap, even that humans will have a different view of the subjects. There may be a conflict between those conducting a project under this Senate resolution and the Ministry of Presidency, on the other hand, in the company of directors. I'd let myself worry about it and I'd have thought it would be wise for me to do the best I could. Governments and its advisers - they're more and less all, I think, in this case, four members of the council's counsel, and a prime minister has come along with his company - to bring it together better. It is true that things overlap, and I think there may be problems and may even hinder the progress of the necessary issues. We know what it's like when men have tasks that are similar to those that each of us wants to push his own toes and try to achieve his own way. I'm afraid because all these matters are so urgent that I would have held to the highest. Ministers and all the ministers who come here should sit down and ask themselves: " Wouldn't it be right to click on one worthy assignment?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u114	A respectable president. Yeah, it's a point of view. A senator tore. I'd like to think, though, that I don't think it will harm this council concluded proposal and the strategy that has been in operation for a very long time that it will be here. I think that's a very positive thing. If the Council continues to work on the welfare committee, which I now expect to follow this discussion, I expect people to see the importance of getting General too. This ensures that, in a legal case of immense importance, there are four advisers and then the legislature of what steps to take in these matters. If we are going to succeed, how important it is that men work together across the Ministry, and this case has been in preparation for quite a while! Therefore, it is important that we also receive the assembly's arrival because it has taken longer to get these things together, as I did in my background. We also see evidence of resources that have developed through cooperation between individual advisers, such as. The project of Björk crisis, which is expected in this synonym, i.e. that comparable measures have begun in Akureyri, where all the parties are involved. Where there are judicial cases, social issues, health issues, and other measures that relate us to different categories of issues. When we're following this course in the European Commission, working on more than one government, which has been in preparation for a long time in this program, I think that it is simply very positive to bring it in here to the council, to be discussed on that. Then, too, we have a vision of different categories. It is now that the European Commission is eventually represented by the legislature and, of course, if the People's Council finds that it is reasonable in the form of what it is, we will work on it. So I think it's just a positive thing, and I hope there's a good process and payment at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u115	Speaker of the House. V.E.G. Minister. Here's a proposal for a synopsis on a strategy for 2019◯022 on action against violence and its consequences, and thank you very much. Secretary of the story. Chapter I has a vision and subject, saying by permission of the president: ▪ Children's rights and their protection against violence take particular care of prevention and education, as well as measures that may result in an improvement in the treatment of such cases. Then, in chapter II, for the objective and emphasis of section 2, the president's permission states: ▪ That there will be a targeted education and prevention of any kind of violence, especially in the school system, in the sports and youth field, at work places, and in the digital world. I'm not going to waste my time to list the activities of the strategy which will probably be useful to many of them, but I'd especially like to mention the A.6 procedure, which will promote the teaching of sex practices and sexual behavior in basic and high schools. That procedure is very important. It has been observed that in this country, the birth of young mothers is more than around the North countries and certainly a cause for concern. When I first arrived at the council in 2005, I made a pact proposal, where I encouraged the then health - care minister to start a team to counteract the unnatural and premature sex of young people and, of course, we need to work on it. That's what happened to you. The above - mentioned senator appears to have a specific error in this body of interpretation. It was reported to be won by four conferences. It also became true that the Ministry of Presidency has its focus, and you ask yourself, " Why is that so? ' What I do comment on and wonder at the suggestion is that there is no basic operation, which is the basis for all the action that is being carried out. In fact, there is an operation that is already accepted because it is in a public health policy established by the Ministry of Health and has its origin in a Minister's Committee on Public Health as well. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson set in motion. Nationalism was made up of people and specialists on the committee. These are measures to help parents raise their children, and the foundation we hear is that parents call for increased training on child responsibilities, and we know how important it is in the pace and pace of their children and in the social situation that parents receive increased education on how to deal with their children's behavior and behavior. Of course, parents have the responsibility to teach their children much in dealing with other people, both violent and other matters. Training children is the hardest part of our life. Therefore, I regret that public healthism is not regarded, which had very good actions. It may often be that the good tasks that are not viewed as different from those of any group or those at the administration of one another are not viewed as good works. The Central Party will submit a new proposal for this council concluded by the Committee and I encourage a minister to study the good public health policy, which gives a great and good report on a course I would like to share with you. Thus, for a long time, a development and behavioral station has conducted out - of - date training courses that are called Legion that works. It has been attributed to very many juvenile and baby protections around the country, and it is addressed to parents who are taking their first step in training. The study is very important, and people are very happy about it. It is important that governments take the step of assisting parents in this vital role, and I further encourage the minister in it. As I said, the Central Party will make a change in this council decree.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u116	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Social and equal minister for this synonym that turns to Iceland being in the lead at the time of anti-violence measures in the community and how it is handled with its consequences. In order to become a leader, we need to consider prevention and instruction. We need to consider how to handle the trial system and work on the authority of those who endure, as the above words say. Violence can be both physical and spiritual, as well as sexual violence, harassment, hatred, and imaging of digital media that promote violence. It is suggested that children's rights and their protection against violence take special precautions and instruction, as well as measures that may result in an improvement in court treatments in such cases. It is vital that the Council conclude that violence is a serious social ill. You need to wake up, work must be improved, and work that violence in Icelandic society will not be tolerated. These are major goals and may take time to implement them, and many stones are on their way to the noble goal that Iceland can be said to be on the road to these things. An operation plan may include strengthening the cooperation between police and prosecution to improve the level of sexual abuses and support their legal rights. Current governments already have an effort to strengthen such a case by implementing a plan of action. Last year, most police agencies in the country were added to their status values to strengthen the effectiveness of the police on these issues, and we now find proposals in the budget of the state that goes to the northern part of the West, which closes the ring. The police are most often the first to be consulted by insurgents. It is vital that they accept and know those they meet there professionally and can be trusted that the situation will be subject to a powerful and quick investigation. Expert knowledge of these matters is necessary in those who first receive fracture tolerance because the initial reaction is of vital importance for the outcome of the fracture tolerance. We can come up with some procedures here that I think are very important, and I would like to mention, for example. Support to regional consultations on action against violence, as follows, by the President's permission: ▪ A regional agreement on action against violence. Annual funding will be provided for collections of budgets, for social projects, for the support of regional cooperation, or for specific projects supporting measures against violence. The aim is to promote regional consultations against violence and its consequences. This is of utmost importance and has already begun in many parts of the country and for example. The police have cooperated with rural society because of domestic violence, to eliminate it, and to provide ways to try to resist it. The aim of cooperation is to increase knowledge sharing and to improve the process of dealing with domestic violence, provide tolerance, and create better services for victims of domestic violence. These are all important matters, and what may be a red thread through this council arrangement is instruction. There are many ways to teach, and I think that's why. paritaprevir Una María Óskarsdóttir mentioned here about public health matters and belongs in this suggestion. Although it is not necessarily listed here, it is a work that has been done in public health tools that could be used here and I don't think it's being overlooked in this proposal, no, not at all. We've been through the years having some very good, powerful tools that we have new things that I think will be of great use here, and I think the public health project is exactly a job that would be very good to bring in here. It refers to a women's shelter in the country. The city of Reykjavík is a resource for women and children to stay on when violence is unbearable. We have had no resources in the country, and I think it is important, as presented here, to establish a team or group of people who will be assigned to map and assess this need, which is certainly there. It's a long way for women who get involved in domestic violence and children to search south, sometimes hard enough to get out of their home door, let alone go between parts of the country to find safety. Therefore, I think this is a very important stage for ensuring violent people access to specialized support measures regardless of their population. Here is a annual meeting of national conventions for action against violence and its consequences. I think this is a very good scene for many members, police, school, government, rural society. These are all people and a lot more involved in these matters, and it's important that this conversation take place. There are other factors in this suggestion that are important, such as the social awareness of hatred. In the last few days, I feel that it is important that society has taken up and made room, since hatred is found in many areas, not just in the last days, but also in social and human populations. I think it is of utmost importance to control the victims of such violence, since it is violence, and it is accepted and given room and protection. You sometimes feel that this violence is so trivial, as if it didn't matter. Words have hurt and hurt feelings, causing both sore and permanent stress disorders in people who have suffered it. It is not enough to put a patch on the wound. The bullet needs to be removed. It points to a report of hatred speech, and here is an overview of current laws and regulations and provides numerous indications of action to stem hatred from local hatreds. It is often said that hatred speech is the first step toward physical violence. We know this from social media that may be young people, and this happens only to one who is involved and to the one who uses it. I also wanted to mention, as this showed that it would not be enough for this four Ministry to have this case, that I think it's just the issue of all advisers and all of us to move on, be aware of this. That way we can have Iceland on the tip of violence. I just want to say in the end that I'm going to follow this on into the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u117	Speaker of the House. I want to thank you. A senator who stepped in front of me for bringing up a public health policy and saying that such education can be a good tool into this council-sense proposal. Of course, I couldn't agree with that. I want to emphasize, because I know that it is very important for parents to be helped to play their important role, for there are so many factors that affect our children. It's their friends, they can be a lot of things, it's social media, and that's why. A senator mentioned a hatred speech, and you are deeply concerned about what has become the hatred of social media. As noted by both of us. A senator and a person with a sense of understanding might want to say it, then there are words of responsibility. It is true, and you feel bad about how people often allow themselves to use a variety of terms about other people. In the face of harassment, a person who is harassed also feels badly about others, even though caregivers not only try to influence and help those who are harassed but also those who are harassed. It's just that way. We need to consider both groups, and this is a major concern. You hope, therefore, that many of the action carried out in the synonym will have a good effect and will succeed. How important it is that good things be done!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u118	A respectable president. Hv. A senator may not have a direct question, but I believe she was agreeing with what was presented. I think we have a lot of tools we can use. It's just a ◯common sense, e.g. The methods we both know and have used, and I think education is number one, two and three. If we take the initiative to form queer people, transtudes, it is of utmost importance that such instruction be brought into the children's presence. It happens primarily through training and home, then in school, where I know it is good education. However, it is important to be awakened and respected, whether through training or through school or in our dealings with one another. Then I think humility is important and that we respect one another, any tool we use in it, regardless of its name. I don't think it's beinglittled here at all, though that may not have been said.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u119	For good reason, the matter of Congress is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u120	Speaker of the House. I'd like to emphasize that there is a lack of a pact proposal for parental education to promote parents in the role of parenting. That procedure is even puts in a public health policy that I mentioned earlier and has roots in the Ministry Committee on Public Health, as it were. paritaprevir When King Gunnlaugsson was prime minister, he set up the son of Gunnla. That's what I want to emphasize, that this important operation is missing. I think it's the basis for all the action, to help parents in the role of parenting, because it's where we're getting results. There's been a lot of talk about pushing responsibility over the school system, and I can totally agree with that. Not only are teachers teaching subjects but they are raising our children as well. True, they have to do so in a certain way, but parents should care for their children. It's a difficult role, so I think government needs to put it in order to make it easier for parents to get involved in the most important part of our life, I want to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u121	A respectable president. I just want to say the word. Senator. I think there are a number of factors involved and that, in most cases, it involves children and parents as well. We can talk about it in the near future. Hv. paritaprevir Una María Óskarsdóttir says why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I have to say, I hope he's going to read it well and take it to himself because I don't think he's going to make it. All of us do well to read this often and to make personal application of many of the tools available to prevent violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u122	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal to conclude a plan for the 2019◯2022 on how to take action against violence and its consequences, from the social and equality minister. I thank the Minister for his review of the case. My business here is celebrating the synonym and actually talking about what had come into the past that it had to do with many ministers, and I don't think that it would be possible, since it's a broad case and it really affects us wherever we are. As shown during the operations, it is from high school to the elderly, who I am delighted to see there too, for discussion is, for example, a discussion. that older ones can be violent in their homes and even in institutions that are our responsibility, our country, and our community. I think that's one of the things we're not in very often. It's, as we've seen, a case that always affects at least two individuals, one who uses violence and one who is able to endure in the simplest form. Of course, there are about these two, and even more individuals, always family, workmates, and large society. There are things we need to deal with from a very wide foundation. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir entered the arrangement that is present today, which I think is a very good arrangement set up in 2015, where the rural communities came together with the police and had to integrate their work. There was a charge brought to the police, so it was not the individual who had to be charged with the matter to continue. It was a very big step, and I think we've been doing a lot of things over the past few years, so we're on a really good way of making this up. The interpretation proposal is yet to take up a discussion on a welfare committee and may make some changes. Without a doubt, many points will enter it as a firm suggestion. The above - mentioned senators pointed to a number of factors. Of course, the export of the operations is not entirely down to what task to use, such as. The instruction of the health - care provider and school to parents, as well as the practicality of the program. But I think the education and the foundation are good, and we make it clear to children and people, from the age of school to the age of school, that violence is not a normal situation, even though in some cases people have grown up under such circumstances and would thus be able to cope with physical activity and so forth as they are acting in ways that are not at all meant to be tolerated. There are also discussions about restraining order, siege, harassment, and other matters that need to be brought into this discussion. This includes studies of violence and violence, manifestations of violence, and other forms of violence. I think it's also an assignment that we need to improve and improve. I'm very pleased with this document, and I realize it isn't perfect as it's put forward and things that can be improved and improved. It is likely to be discussed by a welfare committee, and I do not doubt that any who participate in that work will contribute something to the job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u123	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for promoting these measures against violence and its consequences. Perhaps in view of what has happened in our day, especially, and all the revolutions we have been involved in them, I think it is an incentive to do even better than has been done in many places in the community, as we have mentioned, especially in the school system, within the justice system, and elsewhere. I just wanted to clock this case right here, but what I think is important, because I think it's extremely important that the people who work with children in an environment where harassment is a lot, and that's all kinds of, get the education that's needed at any given time. Of course, we also need to improve our teaching and follow along with the counsel we have regarding these matters when it comes to violence. Here we will discuss a plan of quality requirements and proof of exemplary activities in youth and sports. There, too, we have heard bad stories that have been filled with violence of many kinds. V.E.G. The Ministry of Education and Culture even contributed to the work of the Director of Education and Culture. Here in the days, a suggestion for an associate of sports and youth society to be in charge of that work, and along with what is referred to here is one of the things that can help in my opinion when it comes to handling such matters. There is a great need for children, and especially for young people, when it comes to violence, especially in the light of all the media available and the whole amount of pornography and other available things, which they still seem to be in such a way that especially young boys make a much too high test there. Then it is important that we at all the battle stations that we can meet because we are instructed. Of course, the way she is conducted is something that needs to be implemented. Now we are on our way to putting up mental health care teams on the health care unit. There, this uniform health protection of schoolchildren should be able to help, including to respond but also with preventive measures. Of course, that is what we need to do. To prevent such problems, we need to strengthen prevention so that we will have to deal with the issues that all of us have to deal with. I'm glad that this matter has come out, and I really hope that there's a careful discussion on the welfare committee. I also think there's a reason we're trying to get this tool started, so we can start working on it. Although many things are done well and were doing many of these things, it is better to keep them organized and properly organized. A respectable president. I encourage a representative of the welfare committee here to make sure that the matter is being handled carefully but also quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-04-41.u124	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the Cape Town Treaty on international insurance rights for mobile equipment and the provision of air equipment on decks. 556. The bill suggests that the legal value of a so-called Cape Town agreement, as well as a book to the agreement on air equipment, be taken into account in terms of the statements made by the individual articles of the contract and the accounting. The Cape Town Treaty itself contains general rules and has its terms valid for financing of three types of equipment, i.e. Aeroplanes, railroads, space equipment. However, the book on the use of aeroplanes applies only to aerospaces. According to Article 6. The contract should be read together as if it were a single product. In addition, the contract and the Protocol assume that there will be a declaration of the values of the agreement and the accounting. The contract, the book, and the declarations are part of this bill. The Convention and Protocol were made in Cape Town on November 16, 2001, with the initiative of UNIDROIT, one of the United Nations Legal Department, which made up the treaty also the International Air Force, ICAO. The Convention deals with international insurance rights for mobile equipment, and the book is all about air transport equipment, as it has been previously seen. The treaty and the Protocol went into effect on March 1, 2006, the countries that had then validated it and the booking. Today, 73 countries have signed and validated the Convention and the Protocol, including Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. The main objective of the Cape Town Convention is to facilitate the financing of trade between countries by means of mobile equipment. In order to encourage funding companies to contribute to their trade, it was necessary to reduce the risks associated with different and sometimes inadequacy rules regarding the resources of creditors. The contract therefore calls for measures to be taken when it comes to gambling by air. At the same time, the contract sets up an international electronic registry where demands can be written by demands of air insurance rights, thus ensuring the priority of their demand. The contract is an incentive for financing companies to provide commercial funds with a funeral plan, to reduce the risk of loans that come with different loans and, in some cases, to provide insufficient regulations for the financial resources of the creditors. In this way, financing companies are more likely to achieve wealth and thus feel that they can pay their customers a better loan. Icelandic pilots have stressed that the contract and book will be valid by Iceland on the part of. The Regulation of the Cape Town Convention, which covers the Commission's decision, provisional measures of the demands have continued to take a stand on its claim and registration of bail rights to affect Icelandic legislation and, therefore, are proposed in the bill to change the law on bankruptcy, the legislation on air registration, air travel laws, and the Community law. The change is to ensure that a claimant may take advantage of the National Cities Convention's clause and ensure the priority of the contract and of the accounting over the laws that apply, such as the registered bail rights and the individual significance of them as well as the resources existing in the law on bankruptcy, etc. A respectable president. So I have explained the basic subject of the bill. As mentioned earlier, fliers have stressed that Iceland validates of the contract, considering the implementation of financing agreements on air travel as to whether countries are members and have validated the contract. I would also like to mention that this bill has been working quite long in the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the State Department and with the help and access of the Department of Transport as well. This is a very complex arrangement, so many aspects and lines of law have had to be viewed as being shared with Icelandic courts. So the bill is here and submitted to the council, and I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
