ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u1	President of the United States reports: I have decided, according to the proposal of the prime minister, that the Council should meet for an extended meeting on Monday, January 22, 2018, at the time. 3:00. To Reykjavík, January 16, 2018. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I'm offering the highest bidder. President of Congress and wοuldn't dο yοu knοw? Allied members welcome to serve again, looking forward to the cooperation ahead of the months to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u2	The president also invites why. Allied members welcome the work as well as the members of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u3	There's a letter from Birgir Þórarinsson and Thordildi Ævarsdóttir Asvarsdóttir that they can't attend next week. A letter has also been received by the chairman of the Party of the Left Motion of the Green Mission that Resa Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjork Bjornsdóttir is unable to attend congregation meetings in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly, whereby Elvar Eyvindsson, Olga Margrét Cilia, and Hildardóttir Heildóttir. Their letters have already been investigated and agreed, but they have not previously taken their place in the General Assembly and should therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u4	Elvar Eyvindsson, Olga Margrét Cilia and Una Hildardóttir have signed their commitment to the Constitution and are welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u5	Presidential Congress has received talks from the Central Party on Human Relations, so Birgir Þórarinsson takes up the Sigurður of Páll Jónsson as his deputy member of the Council of Europe and Sigurður Páll Jónsson takes his place in Þórarinsson, the son of Thorrin, as a relief officer of the European Parliament and Cooperation Organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u6	At a meeting of the European Parliament's Committee for Congress on EFTA and EEA, January 16, 2000. Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir was elected vice president of the Committee. At a meeting of the Italian Parliamentary Committee on North Pole on January 16th. Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir was elected vice president of the Committee. At this meeting of the NATO Council earlier today, the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was elected vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u7	The President wants to announce that by letter dated January 18, 2018, the president has requested to the Commission and the Commission that it deals with the following reports: Management Board of Travels, Re-education of Iceland's Management Board, Nurses: Design, Education and Work Programme, Iceland's Medical Association, Viste buys and green government agency, Administrative and Communications Systems, and finally: National Research Report for 2016. At the same time, the president has requested a budget board with a letter dated January 18 January that it covers the following reports: Review of the 2016 budget and conducts the budget of January to June 2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u8	The president wants to inform you that a letter has been received from a social and equal minister asking for an invitation to give a written answer to a covering query. 58, of the pocket money removal system in nursing homes, from Óli Björn Kárason. Borist has two letters from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to provide written answers to the requested application. 75, on tax deduction to innovation companies, from Jondi Valdimarsson, and on the Steindór of the icicle. 41, of the country's property and income in 2016, of Logi Einarsson. Finally, three letters have been received from a marine economist and agri-gri-gricultural minister asking for some written answers to the questions written by Þorsteinn Víglundsson on deck. 76, on farm contracts, on deck. 87, over competitive milk industry and its support. 79, the competition with agricultural products.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u9	A meeting arrangement is set up that allows for the presidents of all political parties, or spokesmen, to speak up for ten minutes each. Any objection, however, will be granted to more than four members of the United States who want to give clear rules, so that all governmental groups will be able to counter the government's speeches and will, of course, be speaking time only one minute in both circles. The order of the classes will be as follows: Left moving a green supply, the Conspiracy, the Central Party, the Independence Party, the Piratars, the Propulsion Party, the Group of the People, and the Expansion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u10	Mr. President. Let me start by saying that this morning's historic news turned out that the political parties in Iceland held a meeting for the #methoo revolution. The meeting pointed out that the political parties in Iceland were likely united in this way, groups that are generally competitive for various political issues, but in such a way were united to set up this matter. I was delighted to share in that event, as the representatives of all classes did this morning. Let us hope that this event will result in the efforts of the political parties to consider them within their ranks, and we will produce lasting changes in culture that we have seen in reports so many women, not just in politics, but in all the sectors of society. There, the political parties can certainly do their part. I'd like to say in the beginning about the political situation and the prospect ahead, as I recall to be the cover of the discussion, that we meet in December under unusual circumstances. This is a record 2nd year, which is not to be followed in the future, and the first issues on the agenda of this council will actually be related to the state-of-the-art policy, which will be expected to be on the agenda in the week on which long-term vision and policy agendas are involved. Then, of course, there is a huge issue ahead of the council, which is a financial plan until the next five years. I would like to say that the budget reflects in many respects a good economic situation. They're approved at less than 33 billion times. leftovers, or 1.2% of land production, but includes an increase of 19 billion dollars. from the last budget bill submitted, but a considerably higher increase, or more than 50 billion, from the last budget. If we look at what we were discussing for elections, it means that there's a substantial increase in a great deal of what the Party wanted in the extra expenses, that is, this bill. These are for example 40% of what my team suggested would be an expansion in the terms of the term all, so it is important that we make the priorities of the funds that we place in an important assignment in a clear way. The major part of the increase was health care. I think a huge project is ahead of us, i.e. to establish a longer - term health policy. V.E.G. A health minister has announced that it will be arranged on the program for the coming fall. I hope that there will be a great deal of consultation on the policy in which we put our priorities on health care, what we want to stress, but I think it is important when we look to the health - care providers especially without beinglittled by other important factors. I was impressed to read in the media that the minister of loneliness has now been put on the Internet, and many people thought it was funny and cool, but social isolation has become a real problem to create an increased stress on the mental health system. I think it is very important that we take advantage of the opportunities we have to be ahead of us and to take precautions clearly and to heed the warning signals we see flashing, to increase the anxiety of young people. Despite a tremendous increase in expenses, however, we are in a position that is the greatest in Europe. The state-of-the-art situation is good. The policy must be dropped, the expenditures are increased, the interest costs are reduced, and it is important that we increase our infrastructure responsibly. I noticed in the review of the financial conference that will be discussed tomorrow, that it specifically speaks of the need for the public to set up regulations to measure interest investments. I think that most of us have talked about, but it is important that we take it up a discussion at the council's scene how we want to contribute the money we put to the public. To form my belief, and in various studies that have been conducted elsewhere in Europe, my increased investment in education, research, and science is providing increased prosperity, but not the following day, but, for a long time, an increased investment in education, research, and science is certainly making more money. When we discuss money investments, it is important that we discuss not only the tangible investments but also the intangibles. In the past, I had a meeting with the chairman of the council to see if we could agree on some process to continue working on the overall review of the Constitution. I'll put the second part on the website the memo I introduced to the leaders of the classes, which describes the process I have suggested, and I have requested to the officers that they participate in that expedition, although of course we give no consideration to the conclusions of that matter. It suggests that we plan this terms and the next to complete a complete review, let's start with what may have been the longest. In particular, I would like to mention the issues that were under the national law on specific points, as well as the proposals of the Council of Government 2012, but also other issues that we set on. I will place this on the homepage of the Ministry of Presidency during this election period, hoping that we can get together on the basis of sitting down at this level so that we can achieve some initiatives in the Constitutional change during this election period, introduce them in a regular way at the Senate field, and ensure that we will increase the greatest attention to the public during the process, both using the methods we know to promote direct democracy such as argument and other, but also more traditional methods of opening up a meeting and opening information through the network. I'd like to mention, too, that I've also taken the time to study the issues of a so - called future committee, but as noted, such a committee is proposed in a government contract. It is based on what Pirates suggested during their first term, but more groups have declared support and debated such ideas and have been here, the committees of the future. The famous future is the Steingrímur son of Hermannsson. All of us can benefit from reading that report and thinking about what became reality in what was discussed. That work was good and helped to put down certain long - term thoughts. That's what we look at. I've suggested, and I'm going to introduce it to the presidents, and we'll discuss it in our discussion, that we look to Finland, where such a committee has been active since the '90s, and is a regular committee in the Finnish Parliament, working with the Ministry of Presidency, and has considerable opportunity to establish matters. There are many urgent issues on the program for long - term politics, and I have to mention in the context of the fourth industrial revolution and the advances of technology that we discussed before elections, but it is important that we take a course of action at the council. Finally, I'd like to mention a few matters that I believe will be a major success at the council scene. First of all, there is a bill to law on personal protection, which is the introduction to a new Regulation on Personal Protection as the highest degree. Minister of Justice will measure. This is a radical change in the environment of the protection environment that we're going to be implementing from European rights and in reality does not result from the changes that have occurred in our environment in recent years when it comes to personal protection. I'd also like to mention the revision that is planned on the current travel laws. I'd like to mention a proposal for an action plan on violence based on a four-month declaration of cooperation in the previous government, i.e. Social, education, health and justice ministers, who are important for our discussion at the council. Most important, I'd like to mention a case that is expected to come in here during the spring months for changes in the tax system and the payment of green taxes or tax appeals in accordance with government policy on climate issues, which we discussed in connection with the payment of income policy laws. As we know, and I mentioned at the outset, the time the council had very short to discuss it thoroughly so that it will be good that the council will have some time to review some of these comprehensive views on the issues of green taxes and the tax appeals. I would like to use my last seconds to discuss it and inform the council that in the last few weeks the government has had informal conversations with the local society and a collective employment agency on long-term vision in the Icelandic labour markets and how we can get closer together on how to organise a domestic labour market. This is one of the points that we have talked about at the World Assembly in recent years, how we can make further peace with others. Already two groups have been put down there. In the next few weeks, I may have the opportunity to have a special discussion with why. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson on the subject of the Council of Cathedral. A group has been put on that issue, but this week a team will also be assigned to pay maths, how it is carried out, because these cases have been controversial. We look at how we can remove some of the barriers that have been put out of the way that we have been able to create an increased agreement on the arrangement of a domestic labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u11	Mr. President. Power comes with responsibility. Being responsible also means taking the consequences of your actions or of those under you. At the beginning of the year, the people received reports that the prime minister had appointed a team to promote trust in politics and government. You could use it, because in the past decade, there has been a great lack of confidence in politics in Iceland. A responsible minister is two kinds: legal and political. In the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, the Minister of Justice, who last month received two court decisions in the Supreme Court because of his office. It's a long time from our daily bread. It was simply sentenced to cross a five - man panel of specialists who sought the job of judges in the National Court. To appoint a team for the advancement of trust is a fine reward. But I ask the prime minister: What is she going to do, not just say, in order to strengthen the political trust of the people of the land? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u12	Mr. President. The group I have appointed is appointed specialists in different fields, both those who know well about the government and others. The group is scheduled to review in the first place the rules of the European Commission, i.e. Government and administrative, reviewing protocols on interest registration, but as it is known, it is not until after the collapse of the General Assembly and Government. In a sense, we have been far behind other countries when it is time to do so. I believe there is good reason to review these rules, how they've been and what we can do better. It is also the responsibility of this group to carry out these rules in other lands, where we compare ourselves, to make sure that we are in some way in harmony with the rules used there. I really think it's really time. Besides this, I have requested to this working group that he would also look at other improvements that may be needed in the administrative legal environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u13	Mr. President. It's good to appoint groups, but we face a problem. We were at a meeting this morning, #meto. It was spoken of, what if we have laws, laws, regulations, or anything but are not applied? What should be done? That's what they asked this morning. The answer was, in effect, clear: The person responsible, employer, president of a group, prime minister, or other, must enter and say: "Here has become a complete confidence, without trust, here has been over a set limit, there is no trust, there must be an issue. In Icelandic jurists, the term "ethnicists " or" other mothers " is not simply a problem that can be set aside. In some way, it must be shown to the public that the law is to be respected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u14	Mr. President. Hv. This is where a member refers to a meeting held this morning, and it was just about the need for discussion, that we are not setting rules that are not really valid because they are only signed without thought, but that we take rules and criteria to be real in our case. Hv. A senator here speaks of groups of work as though they were of little importance. I'd like to say that it is very important to prepare such discussions, whether you look at ethics, interest registration, or other, carefully so that we can ensure that the discussion will be returned to us who should abide by the rules. Hv. A senator refers to the minister of Justice, and I have no idea that this is the case. A senator who is leading a board of administration and monitoring, if they are subject to further consideration. I support this committee to complete her review of that matter or to determine exactly how it should be performed. Because it is only natural for us to take this matter for discussion in that area, as already determined. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u15	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has nearly answered the first thing I wanted to know, i.e. Whether she felt that all information was raised regarding the violation of the law of justice at the order of our judges. More information is now being presented in the media today that the Ministry's Department experts who have laws to inform the minister of the legal procedure - a minister's law to consult with them to see if he is going to law - informed the highest law. Minister of Justice, Sigríður Á. Andersen, that she was breaking the law. She was allowed to know that ten days before the order, something like that, at least long before the order, but she decided to bring a document to the council that broke the law according to all the experts who came before the committee. It is good to know that the prime minister wants to look into the situation, wants us to consider such a matter as necessary discussion, that a board of directors and supervisors is called for a review of this matter so that we have information about this discussion. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to mention this, that it was clear, that it was being handled, and maybe get a little answer from the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I understood his inquiry that I would not violate the application of a administrative and surveillance committee. A senator made a publicity - and it's absolutely right, that I don't violate it. For these data as a result. A senator points to them has a problem. The committee calls them up for evidence, but they will likely review them, so the matter is just there. On the other hand, since judgment has fallen on the case, this finding is due to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u17	Mr. President. Yes, the evidence is available, the court order has been violated by a minister of justice, but there are other data that are developing and at some point would be expected to reexamine their position as to whether a justice minister can proceed. I felt that there was no conflict in the case of a prime minister, and that is what happens after we receive this information, and there is talk about it. In another case, because this discussion is going into politics at the beginning of the year and the projects ahead, of course, is one of the major tasks of choice. Many agreements are available, and we are faced with a contract that may be at the end of February by a hundred bargains, a collective contract of 70%, of the majority of the employees. The Outfit shall be delivered on February 10th. Could be the top. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, reviews the situation better? I don't think the project is very well defined, I don't hear it. They've been trying to work on these issues and achieve a complete score for years. The last and last government, however, tried, and we are now facing this very short time. [[The president calls.]] How does the prime minister really see that the work can run out at this time? I don't think it's likely, but I hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u18	Mr. President. I want to say it first because of what. A senator says that I call for a board of administration and monitoring committee to consider, that, of course, I'm just part of the Executive Director, and this, of course, is entirely entirely in the hands of the council and the management committee, as it were. Hv. A senator refers to the position in a workforce. Of course, only part of the agreements can be negotiated. A senator witnesses, i.e. the agreements on the public market. What is our goal and what is going on in the standard way through the government Convention Committee, the process we are looking at is whether we can achieve, as I said earlier, an increased cooperation with the workforce and a long-term vision of a workforce. Part of it and because of it. Of course, a senator brings up a group on the affairs of the Council of Elders to review the arrangement that was changed over a year ago but has not yet had the effect of changing the arrangement over time, in view of the decision made by a panel of older requests, and the task of the group who has been assigned to review the statistics behind the decision of the panel Council of Elders on the other hand, and the payaturation of public markets. Since then, other groups have been appointed to review pay statistics. We expect these groups to work fast, but we're going to do it with the labour market. We call them the table for a more meaningful discussion of this future arrangement. I believe, therefore, that the definition is quite clear and, of course, I hope the work is done at the right time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u19	V.E.G. President. I was going to come up and talk to the top. The prime minister of hospital or hospital matters, but I intend to continue with the matters discussed above, i.e. the fact that the Supreme Court has twice judged the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice and now I ask again -- I don't care what it is, one is probable enough --the highest. However, the prime minister is completely out of the question, pointing now to the administrative and monitoring committee. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, first of all, are the Ministers rejecting the law? The Ministers don't have to comply with the laws of the country? Second, if a ministerial servant is judged, should he accept responsibility in some way? If not, why not? If it is such that the minister is to shoulder responsibility, how should he shoulder responsibility? Does it matter? Does It Matter Who Is Involved? Or how can the highest. Ministers standing before the United States and the entire nation, and in effect acting as if it did not matter that the Minister of Justice in its government was judged by the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, but I've already answered it here at the Senate scene before, so I don't think I've been too embarrassed to answer. However, other factors were asked. You're absolutely right that we've seen Ministers get court decisions, chief. Minister of Justice now. We've seen a minister pass judgment on violations of equality, planning laws, and so on. Hv. A senator asks: Are ministers above law? Of course not! The judge speaks for himself, as I said before. The right to be the end of all debates: we ought to take it seriously. We must review this process, we must also review the legal environment we have created and review the rules that may need to be established. But how do ministers shoulder responsibilities? Well, the examples I mentioned earlier did not lead to the resignation of a minister, and I neither have I myself as a government member nor as a minister of the government called for the resignations of these contributions. On the other hand, I call such judgments taken seriously and that we review them at the council and the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u21	A respectable president. Now it was the highest. One of the senators who decided to bring the former prime minister to the land. This led to the ultimate outcome. The prime minister would not have held enough meetings, if I correctly met the decision of the land. Now I'm asking the highest. A minister who decided that her predecessor should be brought before the national court whether it is not a reason why ministers sentenced to the Supreme Court are just looking inside and wondering if they are sweet. Or is that not what the prime minister is worried about? Does the minister have no idea when ministers should accept responsibility? Since the minister back then supported her predecessor's trial, I ask: The prime minister does not think of the supreme. Will a minister of justice resign, or will he continue? Then I ask, "When, at the highest rate, is it possible? " Prime Minister, should ministers resign when they receive judgment?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u22	Mr. President. Hv. A senator here points to a conclusion that the General Assembly found after the General's study report, which was agreed on by every category and signed by vote. This decision, to suggest that a certain minister's case be referred to a national court, was made because of their magnitude. But I have said it myself that I find it a reason to revise the laws on the rights and rights of the land following that case. I believe that they are in many respects a child of their time, although, of course, we need to discuss it in this field exactly what should be replaced. I don't know why. A senator agrees with this, a series of events suggested by a greater part of the Senate Committee that worked out the results of the General's study report and that sentence. The minister asks when the Ministers should go to the court. I think there is good reason to reconsider that arrangement. But when is counsellors sweet? I reiterate what I said before: I do not necessarily believe that law sentence against law will lead to the resignation of a minister. That's exactly what I said back here in my first answer like a dog. Senator heard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u23	A respectable president. I'm going, like others have done here, to give special reference to the service group as the highest. During the days, the prime minister ordered the advancement and trust in politics and government. That's good and good, and I'm happy for it. There are other aspects of government trust that matter. One of the things I would like to enter here is a case that has been widely handled in the field of Icelandic society over the last few years and decades, which is about a natural and reasonable amount of money paid to the Icelandic nation for the use of national resources. Now it is not only one of the largest industry but two people who live their livelihood and work on using the Icelandic resource, the country's partner, without our good fortunes to define exactly how the Icelandic nation should enjoy it. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister, if he cannot agree with me in that he or she is lax about this matter, is it any less relevant to the public's trust in politics and their ability to work for the interests of the Icelandic nation without ever losing it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I made earlier a subject of the urgent need I believe we will complete some steps in the review of the Constitution during this terms. And because of what? A senator refers not only to fishing fees in the fishing road but also to travel services and to other sectors that depend on our natural resources, I'd like to say, it's been observed, according to the representative of the left green in the former commission. A marine and agricultural minister ordered a reexamination of marine fishing fees, how important it is that we receive resource regulations in the constitution. So I'd like to start by saying that I think maybe that's the biggest case in the long term, i.e. that we can agree on such a law. Then, of course, we need to examine the fishing arrangements but also the provision for travel services. We've been offering some kind of coming or leaving fee that we're going to discuss with parties in travel services. The basis needs to be clear, and there I think the Constitution is the most important stage, so to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u25	Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. I agree that in the long term it matters. But I also agree that we're in the middle of this crisis that two or four terms, or whatever time you plan to complete your constitution check, are simply too long. We can finish this case a lot faster. However, in view of the government covenant and the receipts of financial laws, it is not entirely clear which way the government will take in these terms during this terms. V.E.G. A minister noted that there is a prior inspection of the coming charges, that is good and blessed. Hunting costs, the messages that have so far come from the government are in the process of lowering them. You can ask me: " Isn't this for sure - I want to get to the top? ' A minister assures me of this - so serious and important that it is urgent to make peace? Is that not accepted?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u26	Mr. President. I'd like to say that I hope it doesn't take many terms to complete a resource directive. I hope, in the poster I set out for the heads of the clans, it will be during this term, and it might just be a little bit of a good stage if we get it. Then I'd like to say, because of what. A senator says it's planned to lower the price of hunting, that we're watching a decomposition. This, of course, can lead to both reductions and increases. One of the things that were even for a discussion on the committee I quoted earlier, of course, there were different places of the modeling companies to the fishing fee, depending on their magnitude, which greatly differs from the scope of smaller and larger fishing projects. The point can be revised much earlier as well as the coming and departures, as I mentioned earlier, so, of course, these matters can be addressed during the election period with certain changes, which hopefully take place together. But I think, in the long run, it would be extremely important to obtain a constitution that would depend on these issues for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u27	Mr. President. Mankind lives in dramatic times, and Iceland is responsible for the development of the earth. With modern technology and communication, mankind has never been closer to being like one family in which all of us have a responsibility for one another. Political reality on the other side of the globe is our concern, as is the case with the people there. For more than 70 years, we have been living under threat and under the shadow of the atom bomb, and vast amounts of energy have been working to maintain a balance of terror. At the end of the Cold War, we breathed light for a few years, but we are again in the air. At that time, we have gone so far on earth's quality that we are heading for something, and we may only have a few years to reverse the trend. How ironic and sad it would be if this superior species of living things were to cause the earth to be uninhabitable instead of making it flourishing! Ideas that have been driven by power struggles, suspicions, and greed have supported indiscriminate use, relentless competition, and many very unhealthy attitudes. As a result, individual parts of the world have come under attack, countries have lost their balance, large groups of members of society have been prepared to defend themselves, and half of mankind, women, have done more systematically indiscriminately. But wars, climate threats, women's oppression, and social isolation, such as the highest level. The prime minister mentioned earlier, however, is a disease, not a disease himself. His name is a misunderstanding and it has to be attacked. There is no point in constantly fighting against the manifestation if nothing is done to attack the cause. It is as effective as scratching the doctor of varicella. Of course, Iceland will not be decisive in this struggle, but we can and should set a good example. We are to take our stand on peaceful solutions whenever possible, with the need to be more effective in developing and respecting a 2011 Parliamentary arrangement. We need to take on more responsibility in the affairs of refugees, and we're supposed to go ahead by example in climate and equality. But the most successful and economic effort on a home earth is winning large victories, attacking the disease itself. We do this by increasing the equation and eliminating poverty. Mankind is faced with a tremendous technological revolution that will completely change society. Within a few years and decades, man's participation in society will be quite different from ours so far. A new technology gives you an opportunity to get back on track. The production can be greatly increased, as well as the potential for ecological production, which is essential to the climate crisis. Most important, it could be used to reduce the gap between the rich and the poor. That wave, however, also poses threats if the cards are not properly held. It does not take much imagination to realize that even worse weapons can be produced. In the future, power and wealth may move on even fewer hands, inequities increase, promoting war again. That is why I hail an interpolitic committee on that matter according to the contribution of the Parliamentary decrees of the United States and other classes. There, however, it must be ensured that the profits of technology do not fall in the hands of those who own an enterprise but, rather, to the public. True, in many ways the people of Iceland are well off in comparison with the rest of the nations. Equality is great, there is peace, we have resources that could enable us to build environmental society, and poverty is less than that. That, though, is no excuse for stopping. In fact, we should be on a greater scale. Iceland is a rich country, and in a unique economy we should be able to do much better now. Hence, when it comes to the weakest groups of society, the priorities of the government are very disappointing. During a discussion about the decision of the prime minister, the highest. Health Ministers that for a government to form with the class that the left green has the most critical of all would require clear political vision, strength, and courage. They had the guts to take the initiative and take the opportunity. And she said, by permission of the President: We are saving the health, education, and transportation system from the long-term neglect and greed of the money forces in the country. The economy has been straightened out after the collapse. As soon as the Conspiracy celebrates every cent put in the funding of public service, we feel that there is far too little work to be done. We are willing to fight along with the government with more ambition in that area if that is done wisely. We, however, criticize the danger of financing such expenses by pinching the interests of a government fund and not earning money. This can easily lead to higher growth and increased inflation. Under these concerns, both financial and financial policies are taking place at the National Bank of Iceland. We specifically regret that the tax system and other subsidies are not used to improve the position of the most vulnerable groups, the elderly, the desperate, the young, and the low income. Then, after 21 billion tax returns from the last government budget, which would have been useful in this struggle. Finally, it will be interesting to observe what the government is going to do. Is it going to reduce the price of our public to common resources and reduce the price of hunting? In fact, the ASI government has concluded that the current government policy will lead to more discrimination. It's hardly a good thing to do in the future bridal conversation. Is this really the clear political will of the left green now that the economy is right, like the highest. The health minister put it that way? Mr. President. In order to have real opportunities for growth and ability, people need an acceptable means of life. They can't be 6 of you. children who live in want, young people who are wandering around in a dissociative apartment market, elderly couples who have only money from social security, and who get about 250 of them. Whether by taxes or by a single person who gets 243. After taxation or the invalid that gets even less than that. These people cannot take advantage of the many available societys today as self - righteous human rights. Although they may have enough food for food and drink, they enjoy social poverty, and a growing group cannot even afford to seek medical treatment. In fact, the government has indicated that it is going to discuss social reforms in terms of collective agreements. But essential systems should never be split into collective agreements. The left category should have more ambition than that. We are simply not required to resort to food, clothing, shelter, or security. As important as it is to achieve a wide variety of viewpoints, such as the highest. Prime Ministers have described the administrative work, a socialistic group can hardly accept that compromise will lead to the developing process to an increase in misunderstandings. In the Treaty, the government published ambitious suggestions on climate matters, but the lack of funding leads to disappointment. There is concern, however, that no mention of the role of the rest of the environment in that struggle may be the most important. There the density will be built, and the city line of the capital area plays an immense role. In view of the motion of four of the five candidates at the Head of the Independence Party in Reykjavík, it is vital that we hear from members of the Independence Party about his policy and the government regarding those factors. Mr. President. Government spokesmen saw it over the years as its role was to strengthen trust and increase political stability. Trust is a key factor in the ability of the General Assembly and the government to carry out their duties. Trust, though, cannot be bought or demanded. People have to earn it. As important as it is that the prime minister of a Governing Body that provides road reference is the most visible way for governments and elected representatives to act in a way that builds up. In fact, a new constitution would be an excellent step in that direction. But if someone thinks trust is increased by a minister of justice who has been sentenced to the Supreme Court for the intervention of the court or a group that has not reached its last three terms in the government, the same goes wrong. Mr. President. The government has been living its short - term meal day. The union is willing to cooperate, but then the government groups have to come seriously with us in order to extend their birth rate, reduce payment, build more rented camps, and generally do much better in the fight against inequities and poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u28	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for his input here today, especially on climate issues and the environment as a whole. I think it's clear that climate is a subject that all of us must achieve a good solidarity, both in the council and in the community. I'm glad that the Conspiracy is willing to cooperate in these matters, and I look forward to discussing them with her members in the months and years to come. To mention two or three in this context, I would like to start with what the prime minister mentioned earlier and are being involved in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is an assessment of green taxes, including the carbon pay that was being discussed before Christmas. There you need to set the lines so that you can finance the actions you will take in the next few years. In this context, I have previously mentioned in this hearing that the operation program is in operation at the Environment and Resource Ministry, which runs across every department, so to speak. There's a lot of people coming. We can give examples such as the electricalisation of transportation, which is thought to produce a great deal of results in meeting our goal of extending more and more greenhouse gas emissions, in line with the Paris Convention. I want to give special attention to technology and research. Increased research is needed in order to attack changes in the workplace, such as fishing and agriculture. In the end, I want to mention that these organizational matters are very important when it comes to these factors, the climate issues, and I will put them to work through a national policy to deal with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for his input. Now, the current government has raised the cost of automobiles only about half of what the preceding green government wanted to do and thus lost from a government fund of more than 2 billion who had been successful in these operations. Instead, it remains in the budget bill, reminds me, 20 million. K., which is hardly much. It's a good price for us to contribute to the electricalization of the fleet and the transportation, and that's what we've all agreed on. But that's just one bear taken because the car's character, the private car, is a disaster if used too much. It's not just the energy source that's bad, it's this quality of the car to have this tremendous mobility, that you can live 100 miles from work, play soccer another 50 miles, and then shop 30 miles away and go back to your house on the same day. It in itself moves us to expand the inhabited earth and to work a land that is not needed. That's what needs to be handled. You see, there is a big misunderstanding that what is good organization and what is bad. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson will surely agree that it can reach a more comprehensive conclusion based not only on beauty but also on reason and environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u30	Mr. President. I take to heart what was mentioned here as to organizational matters, and as I mentioned earlier, I believe that one way to deal with it is to cope with it. A senator described it as a national organization policy. However, it also requires that the rural communities in the country, who operate their local, main, and shared systems, work on these issues and may be guided by national policy. The most obvious example, of course. A member of the body also mentioned in his talk, perhaps being a means of transportation, such as the city line mentioned here. There is something that the government will, of course, look with the city when it comes to it. Then I'm glad we're having a conversation about these matters at the council and trying to help us make this party even bigger and more money to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u31	Mr. President. Yes, I'm quite convinced that we can have excellent cooperation. I expect quite a bit of the highest. Environment Minister. What a fine reward land organization is! But it has to be in a way that requires that rural society act specifically. You should not be able to handle a limited resource at the same time. As far as the city line goes, I'm glad to take it. There is more to be done. I'm worried, because each candidate after the rest of the city's Independence Party is expressing himself on the lines of the city, so I'm worried about it. The members of the Independence Party must gather here and explain it. It's not just a matter of time. paritaprevir His Bryndís Haraldsdóttir wrote a fine piece of paper. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason has to come back, too, and he's gonna have to say that he's gonna have to go back to the city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u32	Mr. President. We'll talk about the city line later. But I'd like to ask what. A senator and chairman of the United Nations alone about his basic ideas when it comes to the Union's tax policy. This time I'm going to ask him a little question about hunting costs. I don't recall why. A senator came into a public assembly and discussed the government's income - income system, not the way he preached a higher tax system, no matter what is discussed. Let's just leave it alone. I'm going to ask him about his policy in general when it comes to hunting costs. Does the senator believe that the price for hunting should be exceeded? Moreover, it is necessary to eliminate laws on the maximum size of the marine industry, their share in the total resources. Which, in turn, means that companies that have to stand constantly under higher fishing costs have to squeeze themselves together; companies will be fewer and fewer, bigger and bigger. Is that the vision of the Conspiracy and the night? A senator's use of hunting costs in a way that results in reduced water supply and a huge number of fish productions on Icelandic scale?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u33	Mr. President. First of all, the Conspiracy's basic ideas on taxes. They are similar to the ideas of the left green on tax issues that it would hardly be possible for the senator to cooperate with us at some point. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I'm not sure that we would give the same amount. With the fishing fees, we want the nation to be paid a higher price on their common resources, whether sea or energy, or so. Of course, such things can lead to much compression. But there are also other ways to stay inhabited in the country than to force people to stand in ways that may no longer carry on. Why don't we take out some of those dinners? Why don't we take the settlements and replace our money with this system that we have today, perhaps allowing them to build up on new employment roads, tourism, innovation, and so forth? Then it's amazing to listen to a representative of the liberal here, huh? paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson, when it comes to the fort. Is it to submit to all other laws? Anything other than engineering clinics or barbershops or massage parlors? Is it not all right, though, that some of the crops go under and we look for the most practical business so that they eventually get their fees? The important thing is not to shed blood. But if you do. A senator can assure me that in the present system the ground hasn't been bleeding, I'll just apologize.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u34	Mr. President. That was an amazing speech. I'll say it's going to come down primarily on the ground, including the rest of the world. In the ideal case of both. A senator, if his ideologies and his policy at the time of the hunting costs are to be carried out. It is not surprising that when the senator speaks in this way, his ideology is based on the fact that the state is giving up some money when taxes are not raised or dropped. One who speaks in such a way assumes that the State really has everything that a person earns, the paid man, because you can't give up anything you don't have. Ideas are based on the fact that the State really owns everything that an individual earns and the companies earn. That's what I'm trying to do. If that's what it means to be a liberal, I'm a liberal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u35	Mr. President. First of all, what. Senator, hunting costs aren't taxes. It's a price for use of a limited resource. If you've missed it, then you've missed it. In fact, a member of the council has spoken for a different kind of payment, perhaps in the form of an auction that may lead to the idea that humans will not offer more than they can afford to pay. In a good year, we earn a lot of money and earn less money so that the article can always carry it. That, of course, is the wisest thing to do. In this way, we do this in various other occupations. I hear what you're saying. A senator supports this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u36	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. It's always a good thing to have good allies at the council. He said he and the Conspiracy were going to show us allies here at the council. However, I must continue with the discussion we had before the New Year's Eve. I have had little regard for what happened around the budget, and last time I heard on the radio this weekend, the matter continued. In a speech or two. A senator said that he did not have enough work to do this year. I would like to ask if he wanted to cut down some of the projects that were started this year on the budget bill. As noted, this bed was 19 billion, which was added from the bill submitted in September. It has also been shown in the discussion that this is about Half the money the Conspiracy suggested would be during the season.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u37	It's...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u38	I'm just asking, "How does the senator feel about the normal spending of the first round of budgets for these lawsuits? Is that something he would have liked to have different? Is it health care? Health agencies in the country? We raised expenses for child reform, which I have felt was very down on by the United States. I have found the United States to belittle. Of course, there is always a better way to do so. We agree on that. We don't argue about that. But I have felt that the discussions on the side of the United States, which claims to be our ally in a number of good matters, were so demeaning what is being done. I ask, " What does the senator think it would have been reasonable to add from the financial bill since the fall of the budget that was now approved? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u39	Mr. President. If left green control was taken from the last term, and even from the campaign, they would be pretty consistent with what we've talked about. You see, we were quite a team at the campaign campaign for what needs to be done, and we needed to earn money to make an invasion. Here's what we're talking about. A senator that added 19 billion. That is correct, but 21 billion was also left behind by the Benedikt son of Jóhannesson. No, we haven't felt the need to cut back, and I was actually glad that the health, education system, and a tiny amount of transportation had been improved. But better, if it's enough. The key point is that both of these groups provided a credible solution to the election how to earn money so that we would not leave behind the elderly, the desperate, the young, and the poor children of the land. In fact, we thought that words would last much longer. That would be a lot more honest, then. A senator saying, "Serri, this is a compromise when two very different categories of people get involved together, but we couldn't do better. " Instead, it stands why. A senator here, defending ideas and implementation that are basically at odds with what she was talking about before elections, i.e. to earn money from those who are very efficient, to protect low-and-yielding people, and now finally go to the top of the economy to improve the worst interests of the groups instead of letting panic into the economy by skimming just some of the income products.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u40	Mr. President. Sadly, the way of income - in many respects, a corpse between the left green and the Controversy - was like a whale. A senator says, received about 29% of escorts. [[The deal was a compromise.]] Sadly, that was no greater support for the nation. I'd like to remind you, too. A senator, that there was hardly one course to take. That's why there are probably eight classes at the council, that's part of it. Hv. A member of the body here speaks as though members of the middle class, children, or children do not benefit from the action proposed here. My speech has nothing to do with what I said before the election. I'd like to ask the senator not to bring up on me that I said something else for the election, for the campaign, but what I've been doing here. The other is so different that we are taking our first steps, so we must not forget it. This is the first financial bill of this government and the government budget is ahead and we'll probably see where we're headed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u41	Mr. President. Talked right now. Don't you think it's a senator who's about to step over the tax system? [[Up front.]] Yeah. [[Up front.]] That's what you're telling me. Senator? [[The president calls.]] Talked right now. A senator on the wealth tax? That may be discussed at the highest level. Secretary of finance now? Hv. A senator earlier said that our recommendations were given only 29% votes and that this was why they had not come true. So, she made a compromise and she must live with her, but don't be surprised at that, yeah. A senator, that we who rejected being in this government, including Because we didn't think we could reach an acceptable conclusion to the Independence Party, talk after election, as we spoke before the election. It would be strange if we were to abandon our language because we did not trust ourselves to compromise. A senator did. And I guess I talked. A senator who works for an election is different than she does now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u42	Mr. President. I believe that there is a reason to start by thanking that this discussion should be developed here, which I consider very good and timely. Although this government has not been working long, there are certainly reasons, many reasons, to discuss its work, its state, and its prospects in politics ahead. This government introduced itself in a way that, more than any other government, was going to work on the expansion of the Generals. The government's treaty was not a political agreement; no, it was a covenant for cooperation between three categories and the procreation of Generalis. What, though, is the reality of just a few weeks later? Each minister has hired two political assistants. They've never been so many when all the Ministers have hired two of them; I'm not sure they've all finished it, but there are few left. At the same time, the government is greatly increasing the budget for other political projects. Of course, members of the government are being assigned to their people. The increase to the Ministry of Presidency, to political projects, is hundreds of millions. The overall increase to the Ministry of Presidency between years is more than 50%. Something would have gone to the highest level. The prime minister now, and her companions in the left movement, a green supply, if any prime minister in the former government had done anything like this. A large part of this increase is expected to use political means to recruit people to watch the politics of the government. Of course, there is something else. This government intends to establish a wide range of work groups and committees, within which people are hired to work on the political policy of the government. Then there are espionage agents, and, of course, the whole government system that works for the European Commission. But I'm sure the Council is going to hire one new employee at the same time. This is the expansion of the Generals, the concluded agreement to cooperate with these three groups and to promote the International Assembly. Never has there been so much effort in the process as to strengthen the political positions of the groups making up the government. Even so, they may not be able to get help to explain what this government work is doing or to try to paint a mental picture that they have a purpose. True, the government, or many of its forms, was honest that this would not be the control of big changes, not the control of big solutions, would be such a government to keep lost and spend money. She has done so and is proud of it, as it were. In his speech today, the prime minister did what he could do to increase the financial cost of the State. It seems to be an independent goal. The Senate situation has not been reinforced in any way. We saw it when it came to calling the committee. The government's situation did not obtain anything beyond what it had the right to do in the strength of many. When the time came for the handling of budgets, there was not one suggestion from a government official, even though there was a suggestion that was completely lost to what the government had proclaimed. Because they came from a government opponent at the council, came from my body, they were numbered by all the rulers. It is a precaution against the discipline of the management team and that men do not run beyond themselves, allowing the Senate to manipulate the Ministers' decisions. This is the government that introduced itself as a management director of a change in practices at the Council and the Propaganda of the Generals. Mr. President. This government seems to intend to stay gone, try as it proclaimed, rather than bring something new, to attack system changes. It seems that she's going to increase her expenses for various lawsuits, not fix the system. But what is the result of such a course? We already see that. We can already see this in various aspects of life. It doesn't lack the funding. Among other things, the government has proclaimed that it will use its own funds from the banks, two of them, the Lands Bank and Iceland Bank, on needed projects, on payment and infrastructure. However, she does not intend to do the same with Arion banks, for it is a lack of respect for the government, or she aims only to keep the sea, when she finds out that the state is losing an Arion's bank. It has become a U-invent of the policy being offered and introduced in 20136/2016, and as a result, it does not go to New York and London's building infrastructure, nor to improve health or education systems, but to be offered by hedges in New York and London. This is the result of the approach of this government to the government of the country. The same is true of the Land Hospital, where it is highest. The prime minister now insists that the council has specifically agreed that a new hospital should be built on the Ring Road. There's something else, Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister should recall what it was like when the proposal was at its height. The minister has been approved. Then the proposal was made - and it's a pleasure to see the height. I think it's good to receive this discussion - that a new U.S. Geological Hospital should be built on the Ring Road and be taken hostage by Congress to get men to accept that proposal. However, a group of senators failed to leave this issue, unable to agree to a proposal for a new Hospital Building on Ring Road. Thus, they were drawn back or changed so that they met that there was a reason to move on to the maintenance and necessary structure of the old house on the Ringway. Thus, either this government is storing funding into a corrupt system without trying to fix it or to promote a big mistake that would have been possible to intervene at this point, but not much later, to fix. The latest example is this city line, which is still one of the things that are thoughtless of, and to increase the problem that the solution is intended to reduce rather than the other. There, apparently under the government contract, the parties are going to add funding to very thoughtless suggestions that will greatly add to the road problem and to the financial problems of a local community in the capital area. These factors I've mentioned here, the approach to the financial system, the health care department, and then this infrastructure or this part of the city line, are very vivid to this government that has nothing to offer politically. She has no vision. It is not telling us some political advancement or positive change to the future, how to make things better in the community. No, all she can do is draw money into a corrupt system and continue to strengthen past mistakes instead of reacting, seeking solutions, thinking outside the box, and using opportunities and suppressing problems. This is not a government we need in Iceland. Actually, not a government we would need in a few situations. And this has been revealed in just a few weeks. Let us remember that. It's just been weeks since this government began. Yet, all of this has been revealed, in the direction of it. If this is what's going to happen for the next few years, if we're stuck here with a government that doesn't respect any WHO or does at least nothing to strengthen its position, and is merely to hold on to the Minister's chairs, leave the system to rule the country, but to hold on to the ministers' chairs and divide funds into a faulty system. There is no promising government pattern for the future, a policy pattern solely based on the exchange of options and the sharing of quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u43	A respectable president. I'll stop at that word. A member of the U.S. government is losing Anion's banks. I want to walk a little later. A senator explains what this means. I remember it so much we couldn't. A senator who was then prime minister has presented here an enormously massive operation that turned to the swelling of the old banks; that we have set up a stable tax on the worn - out house, which was then able to escape by undergoing very strict stability conditions. In the case of the company which is actually the predecessor of Arion's bank, the former bank had to do what the other bank did, under the very strict stability conditions that were involved in enforcing the budget, to issue bonds of over 80 billion and all the conditions that covered how to pay and should be included in the financial settlements of the state; the fictitation arrangement was then to clean up all sorts of uncertainty directly into the government account. All of this we presented ourselves. A senator, actually, and I at least I was somewhat pleased with the way it was done, but it can be held that much of the economic gain we see to this day, when we both consider the situation in real life, but also when we compare ourselves with other nations, we can be traced to a considerable degree by these actions. But I don't know how the Icelandic state is losing his bank because it doesn't have Arion's bank. Since 2009, we have had a special share in Arion's bank, and we have provided a substantial basis for our personal contributions. As far as I can tell, everything's going well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u44	Mr. President. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. A financial minister is absolutely accurate, although he does not draw the correct conclusion from his own description. I'll try to help the highest. Ministers to recall how things worked out, and it is the easiest thing to do in comparison between Iceland and Arion's banks. Iceland Bank was part of Glitnis's high-end stability project. Minister mentioned. In a sense, it was Anion Bank, too, as a payment from the Council of Buy. There was another way, like the ultimate. Minister may remember, that part of the government, part of the government minister, counted one too, as it was said, that the state had three banks in its arms at the same time. There was then a compromise within the government, which meant that instead of the state's taking Arion's bank directly, it was kept indirectly. A similar conclusion was to be made. The fundamental issue of this, Mr. President, was to come up with a comparable conclusion, so equal justice is being taken care of. So, and in the Council of Copenhagen, or whatever the name of Arion's bank was to be held on behalf of the Council of Copenhagen, to pay much of what would happen to Arion's bank. In other words, the state of mind basically owns Anion's bank indirectly. That is why it is totally unacceptable for these people to get away with the actual sale of the bank on their own in order to become abnormally low on the part of the State. But it is the government's right now. In fact, it was a celebration of the highest. Secretary of finance and then financier when this was announced at the beginning of the last year that the hedge fund was gaining a large share of Arion's bank in this way. The arrangement was thus designed to prevent this, one by not allowing governments to, and at worst, the use of premarital rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u45	A respectable president. Of course, it's a very big matter, and it's hard to take here during a brief counter-reception. It is simply wrong that the Icelandic State is in the position of either saying no or using the premarital rights when the terms of the premium are not present. It's just wrong. The fact is, there was a set floored to the price of doing business with the cash of the bank. If there is a man's right, there may be a problem. Today, a senator feels that it is a limited amount of time, which was written and defined for such a trade. So I firmly refuse that the government is sitting by with the government and is losing Arion's bank when the fact is that the Icelandic state is well on its way to obtaining good fruitage in the original budget and all that was agreed on in the stable conditions seems to be going on. That's the way it is, for example. The position of the bond that was published at the time for over 80 billion has reached 35 billion because this letter and other assets have been made available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u46	Mr. President. As I have traced before and others have done, the conditions of the marriage rights are certainly there. Now that's what I asked the highest. A cabinet minister recently asked that the state will yield prerogatives for the remainder of interest in the bank in the market. I asked the highest. Minister to whether he would give that right. He then said that he would not do so if there was a premarital right. We'll just have to hope that it'll work out, at least with that part of Arion bank, to the highest. Ministers respond to what he said at his time in opposition to me, that the state will use the prerogative, although it is not too late for me and others to intervene in this first business, which violates what was set up when those who held on the Arion bank were allowed to go a different route than those held at the Bank of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u47	Mr. President. Hv. In his speech, a senator said that the government has no political vision. One day, you would have thought that such statements no longer work, and they are said by men but rather by a critical political view, to some extent. The middle party's marked by a horse, a prisoner and a beautiful horse. It reminds me of the nature of the country and the environment, so I'd like to ask why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson: Is the Central Party in favour of goals for non-carbon Iceland in the year 2040? What are some of the priorities of the pack? Of course, I could argue that the Central Party had no environmental policies, no climate policies, but I don't. However, I would like an answer to that question. Second, can climate be handled without raising the State's donations and reaching out to them by some means? Actually, I'm asking if this relatively newly formed political party would like to help the rest of us draw the load.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u48	Mr. President. It is true that the government has a policy in a particular matter, or rather it is said, that certain categories of the government, especially in a series of cases. Senator, proceed to a certain course of action. But the government such as this has no special vision for the future. At least I haven't done that. You're right. A senator says that his company, as indicated by his name, lays a high priority on the environment and asks for my policy in that subject. I can say what. A senator now believes that it will already be discovered at this council that the Central Party is the highest environmental category in Iceland. We will, by modern environmental suggestions, demonstrate that if you really want to protect the environment, whether it is Iceland's natural nature or climate, the Central Party has the best suggestions for it. I hope they will be discussed at the council. In terms of taxes, these green taxes. I guess you can't talk about these taxes because it's green. If you talk about welfare taxes, isn't it taxes? I don't completely understand the government's endless experimentes and, in fact, other people's attempts to dissuade themselves somehow. These green fees and taxes are supposed to go up again. Last New Year's Increase, including by a 50% rise in carbon money. What does it really do? Will this cause people to drive less, even if the gas dropped a few cents because carbon bills rose? No, people continue to make their way. All this will do is increase the household expenses and raise the loans, raise the financial loans in Iceland. This is an example of an environmental policy that is not intended to end and that leads to a worse situation than it was expected to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u49	Mr. President. Well, I guess I'll assume that's what I'm going to do. In 2040, a member of the Parliament supports this high - sounding target of noncarbonizing Iceland. It would be nice if he gave us the embezzlement, even though only a slight embezzlement, of a course that is being developed that is so insurmountable that I hope to be true, because it must provide considerable suggestions on how to finance this vast project. It's not only about reducing carbon gas emissions, it's also about heavy projects in the country whether it's a urban line or some other solution that the Central Party might have. It's forestry, what's to be done in it? What to do in deforestation of wetlands, etc.? Actually, there was a why. The senator took very little note of these two questions I asked. Let's call it a day. He will then have the opportunity to deal with Iceland's noncarbon share of carbon 2040 below and explain how he makes his point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u50	Mr. President. Of course, I'm in favor of the goals of non-carbon Iceland. I went to Paris at the time to sign that policy on behalf of the country. As far as the methods of success are concerned, we may have some important differences. But I think it's important to achieve this particularly in two ways, in the first place with a much larger agriculture and secondly, the use of domestic energy. You see, it's so good with the domestic energy that they're environmentally friendly. They come from renewable energy because we've built activated forces to use the energy that exists in Iceland's environment. If we make as much energy as we do now but did so by burning coal as it is done in so many other places, we would have to import 26 tons of coal on every Iceland in order to produce the same amount of energy. If we can make it more effective in the areas where we are dependent on carbon fuels, then that's probably all we can do to achieve this goal by the healing I mentioned earlier. But criminal action against the public, to punish people for having a car, people who have no place but to go their way in the family car, is a very negative and false approach, and will not yield the desired results, as if plans for a city line will not produce the desired results but, in my opinion, the opposite. What I'm talking about is that there's been a squeeze in the capital area where people will be stuck all over the city, and traffic problems will be much worse than right now. At the same time, the buses in the districts must pick up passengers to drive them to the city line instead of today's bus crossing the entire city. In what way this city line is supposed to solve or improve the environmental problem, I can't see it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. There are some things I would like to ask him. I'm a special amateur for the Generals. I think it's important that the Council works well. I know we what we're doing. A senator has not always agreed on how to do so, and at times I had to pursue him here as a senator when he was himself a minister and was not very interested in being in the council or participating in the work of the Generals. It was quite a special challenge to call for him, then prime minister, to have a word with the Council or to respect it in the event of a switch. I want to ask you why. A senator who is now in a different position and who is likely to be slightly more impressed with the success of the Council than he thought: How does he feel it best to increase the way of the Generals and support the Council's legal work and the government's office? I think it's clear to everyone who's been involved in politics that it's become a reversal. That's what I'm talking about. Hv. A senator uses extensive expressions such as that he and his class have the best suggestions, and basically the only ones and others have no vision and if anyone, the stupid one. I don't think this type of vocabulary is exactly the one that is best qualified to find good conclusions in matters. However, I would like to ask him if he will not remember the location of a circuit hospital in 2015, when he himself was prime minister, and when the General of Congress passed a decree on the location and when this position was established under his seat when the General Assembly found out in the budget of that year, to prepare for the construction of a domestic hospital at that location.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u52	Mr. President. That's a lot of questions, but I'll try to cover history fast. I am very happy, though, at the very height of my life. A minister thinks it's a reason to compare the actions of the current government with what I've planned. I think that's gonna give us many opportunities to enjoy comparison. Although I was not particularly interested in listening to endless speeches, I was interested in the Council and its activities. Minister on the President's conference board in its own time. When I'm at the highest. The current minister was in a position of government opposition was hardly at peace with the council for endless events, including reports. in a series of hours of discussions about the President's conference board almost every day. For the Land Hospital it is true that a group of people had a very well - defined assessment based on very limited grounds at the time. It wasn't for me. There was no one who asked me if this assessment should be determined or asked how it would be done best. The assessment was completed to reach a certain conclusion. The premise was designed to do so. It's like the highest. A minister knows this way with the excel program that what comes out of it is entirely based on what is inserted into it. It was perfectly predictable what would come from the evaluation and what it was intended for - to reach this conclusion. As I traced this speech to the moment, it is simply wrong, and it contradicts that in 2014, I think it was a agreed proposal to build a new hospital on the Circle Road. On the contrary. Me and other council members who thought this delirium was not prepared to accept that proposal. And in order to reach the completion of Congress, they agreed to make a suggestion that was neither a bird nor a fish compared to what was suggested, where everyone agreed, and everyone agreed that they needed to act on the necessary maintenance and construction of the Ringway, not the construction of a new land hospital on the Ringway. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's review. So it is in his case a member of the health minister of his administration at the time that he now calls a group of people who made some conclusion that was not really there because they were just set up, and then there was just some proposal approved here, which meant something completely different to the mind of each other. A senator, but most members of the Parliament's Hall, is interesting to hear in this context. [[Up front.]] I realize what I'm doing. A senator does not like this discussion about improving the work of the Generals. He believes that when a minister is bored with listening to certain members of Congress, he is simply not required to fulfill his duties toward the General Assembly. Is this the senator's attitude unchanged? Does he think that we who now sit at the Ministerial class are the only ones to choose the times and the talks we would like to listen to? A senator, whether we are bored with what we hear. þm. Will Davíð, the son of Gunnuga, decide whether we will sit here under his speeches or not? [[The president calls.]] Or is this about the duties of the Commission in front of the legislature? That's where the power comes from.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u54	Mr. President. Ministers are now to participate in objective discussions at the council. It is different, however, when members of the council show disrespect for the ongoing discussion about President's conference board, which is not even about the President's conference government, but only about the use of power, taking the council hostage. [[Up front.]] I'll admit that I've been involved in what might be called a filibuster in my time but only in big cases, dangerous matters that the government of that time tried to push through, and we were better able to stop in many cases. It does not mean being in the intention of having the council for a permanent hostage, actually using it in a state of insanity, Mr. President, and at the same time planning to re-create as some sort of High Council Guard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u55	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the innovation involved in the discussion presented here. True, we often have a breakthrough in the matter of Congress, a general political debate, a number of recent events here and a relatively short time since the Prime Minister's decision was delivered, so I rejoice that we will set off the spring council in this way. In fact, in the formation of a new government, there has been a special emphasis on reaching out to increase the firmness of the government here in Iceland. One of these points is that we have had elections too often in recent years. Similarly, it is suggested that all of us feel the general feeling that regular affairs in the Senate or during the election season are not likely, or at least Not usually successful, making more progress in the Senate work. In effect, one of the emphasis displayed in the government covenants, with regard to the growth of the Adolescence and the increase in political consultation, is just the efforts of the governments to further contribute to these goals. Of course, how you can succeed is not limited to those of the government. All of this is needed in order to be successful in strengthening this conversation through a wide range of subjects. Here, the prime minister, at the beginning of his case, referred, including to the milestones held in this morning, where all classes meet simply to discuss a matter in general without trying to seek out the media between groups, as is so often when certain policy issues are involved. I think it's a progressive step that we've done as well with that meeting as we did. I'm not going to argue that there will be a complete turning point in the role of government parties and governments on the other hand. I believe, however, that we can work a little harder to improve the efforts of Congress. I can share it here with men that it's very rare that you've had the question over the years: How in the world can you stand in this hurry? How in the world do you feel about it when the discussion enters the perfunctory plan that you so often witness? I don't think I'm the only one who's been asked that question. The question is, could we, perhaps by having a little more respect for different viewpoints, and by the way people use the word from the platform, be able to make the discussion a little more interesting for the public? And back to this discussion here, we're a little breaking up at the Council in this way. That's pretty interesting. It is absolutely essential that we maintain such an interest during the conference and in the general political debate in the country. It is clear that in this narrow political context, we are here at the beginning of a number of milestones during the year. I am primarily going to mention the national sovereignty that we are going to celebrate during the year. I feel that we should stand together to do this most highly so that we will arouse national interest in the subject and bring back the historic milestones involved. Then there are other big ones. We're seeing the country election here within a few weeks. Of course, it's important that we arrange the Senate so that, as a matter of fact, the least interference will occur to the local government in connection with the elections. This has been set up a work programme that should make sure that we get back together after the end of the district election. Otherwise, for the sake of the district election, it may be a cause for joy to see that the economic improvement we are experiencing through the state's financial affairs is clearly also coming to the rural level. A major political issue this year is all labour - related issues. In the first few days, the government has made significant progress in dealing with the workforce under the lead prime minister, which has led many meetings with the labour market, where the entire site has participated. We have arranged a number of opinions that have long been quite difficult to deal with between the labour market and the government, but that does not mean looking away, and we need to keep on trying to deal with such projects, as is the case with each other. I'm going to say just as it is that I'm well optimistic about how we've managed to cut off certain knots that hopefully could make things more peaceful and more stable in a job market than we've seen in recent years, since I feel that we've been looking ahead too often. This year, if you only look beyond the rocks, the Bgret process continues. Iceland and I have considerable interest there. How appropriate, then, that the minister of foreign affairs should have brought together a special report on the main interests of our Icelanders in this regard. I think, in fact, when we look back on the scene, what is happening in the relationship between the European Union, such as Britain in this case and the European Union, and then look back here and see how we have to look at all the ways we have to adapt the yoke to the EU's individual policies, we might have every reason to have a general report on Iceland's relations in the European Economic Area with the European Union; how the contract has developed over the years, what key facts have been established, how it has been accepted here, how the solution has proved to us, what measures we have found to deal with the general agreement to resolve. Then I'm referring to the two relevant systems and to how the discussion on that subject has been elsewhere. This is a subject with enormous interest in Icelandic interests which may highlight our potential for dealing with the European Union in connection with the Bgret process that we need to be aware of. Now, in general about the economic situation, I have to say as it is, if we're just looking at practical national forecasts, it's pretty good right now. We see in a national financial statement accompanied by a budget bill that predicts that the private consumption of less than 8% last year will continue to grow in the coming year, showing the improved interest of the households. Although we do not want economic growth to be merely driven by increasing personal consumption, this is still a sign of improvement in the welfare of the people of the country. There will continue to be a fairly dynamic economy, more than 3%, according to predictions. A few business partners, though. Looking back, it's really amazing what we've been doing in the economy in a short time. We have a considerable increase in government spending to improve the various areas of society that we care about so much that there are few examples as large as we saw in the last two years. But it has been successfully done so that the total share of domestic production has been replaced or reduced. At the same time as expenses increase this much, there is considerable economic growth in the country, the private consumption is growing, like me here. Yet, in these circumstances, the late bank has the opportunity to reduce growth. Remuneration goes up, the pay sheet went up by about 7% last year. It is predicted that pay will continue to rise in the current year. Despite all of this, inflation has been at and below the limit of Iceland's State Bank. What an amazing situation! We need to make sure that the work ahead of us, including the work ahead of us. This spring council in connection with the government budget for the next year, we use this fine position to benefit the entire population. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'm going to thank you to the highest level. The president for setting up this recent discussion, this general discussion, when the council is reunited after a brief pause. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It seems to me that I'm getting along quite well with the big movie in politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u56	Mr. President. Recently, the independent financial council issued its opinion of the government's financial policy and is said to be floundering, impervious, and unsatisfactory. It is said to be conservative, not lacking, and may contribute to economic instability. The policy is said to be based on poor analysis and uniform forecasting models, and there is no emphasis on social stability, as the financial Council puts it. In my books, that's a fallrate. In this regard, there is a potential for a reduction in income taxation. When such a decline is thought to be a threat to stability. With a reduction of 1 percent, the state of up to 15 billion dollars, which would take the long way to finance the financial expenditures of the Union that it proposed by its new release laws. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: How will he respond to his low score and his policy? Will he fulfill his declarations from the campaign to lower his income tax? [[The president calls.]] If so, does he disagree with the economists that such a thing is inconsistencies during this period of filing? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u57	A respectable president. I didn't think this was a good analysis of the opinion of a financial body because of future financial policy. We may have an opportunity to discuss it further tomorrow. Admittedly, there is some evidence that there is a need for attention on the budget and on the interest of Kingdom spending. In these, there is a class of whales. The senator was more upset about the need for more government spending than the person being present. In terms of tax reductions, I have been very clear in that regard. I think it's fair to cut the income tax. I believe that an additional 35% of income taxes in addition to personal discount are a fair ratio of all normal wages and that the thresholds between the lower level and the upper level are just set today, they could raise something. But timing is everything here. [[The president calls.]] We have been very clear about this in both the Treaty and the discussion. [[The president calls.]] A financial body shows possible causes when it comes to the reduction of income tax, which is very clearly evident in the text. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u58	Mr. President. Two main steps can be taken to cope with expansion. We can build up our expenses, or we can improve our income. The government doesn't do either. So it is obvious that the problem is pushed into the home with a higher interest and/or worse service. A few weeks ago, no political party was going to assemble the government spending to respond to the expansion, including the highest class. Secretary of finance, who spoke directly of a hundred billion dollars. inject into the inside. It remains that we can respond to the expansion by increasing the income of the state. There is also the possibility that when we do, we will be able to finance the election. However, in the new releases of funds, and in the government covenant, this is not the case. In our discussion now, it is even called lowering the fishing fees. I think that debate is a good demonstration of the true and proper face of the government. It is obvious that in the mouth the highest. The minister of finance has become stable only when it comes to performing other tasks. It seems that there's the best interests of the big estate and the richest 5% at all times in the foregrounds. [[The president calls.]] Meanwhile, 95% of the people have to pay the bill. [[The president calls.]] That's very critical.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u59	A respectable president. The stability is seen even in the past. in the budget bill, covering the 2017/2020 national conventions and discussing consumer prices: 2017 1.8%, 2018 2.9%, 2019 2.9%, 2020 2.6%. Inflation is predicted to remain low, although it has been below the limit of the Federal Bank for four years. So I call for a further explanation of the challenge. A senator is talking about. If we talk about things that can be done when a member of a peer makes a splash, when inflation comes up, there's a lot to do. The Secular Bank is likely to change interest if governments do not use conservative government policies. The same is true of other labourmarks. When contracts are difficult to achieve because unions are asked for an improvement, can either increase the pay or lower the tax, right? That is what the government has said in its government contract; provided that the pay policy of the agreement is in harmony with such a policy, we will use that method. [[The president calls.]] It has proved good in the past; it is the fairness of the employee in the land, i.e. ... they'llredown taxpayer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u60	A respectable president. V.E.G. At the end of his previous reply, Minister Bjarni Benediktsson came in handy to see that when possible, taxation would fall into the country's home, employees. What I wanted to come in here today is that I was disappointed to hear the highest language. Minister on Deloitte's so-called tax day a week ago, since it was a accountant's business partner and company of employment. That left with me one simple question that doesn't require a long answer: The secretary of finance to a higher level of expansion or pressure will be due to the fact that money remains in a company or in a pocket of homes or individuals than if the same budget remains in the bank? Of course, what I'm calling is the view of further tax reductions for companies and insurance companies in particular. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u61	A respectable president. No, I do not believe that it is dangerous to leave room for employee, home, or professional life, and it is more likely to make greater benefits for a general person to take such money away to the State. I don't have that vision. However, I believe that this interaction was extremely important. It's this interaction I was talking about on the tax day as a matter of course. A senator pointed to the point, and then I was merely discussing that if people are talking about tax losses in order to increase the cost of money, I noticed that in the past two years there has not been a shortage of money gain gains. It's been enormous. It has been set up historically, and we have achieved the highest level of salary we have ever seen and so far more money gain than in neighboring countries or OECD countries. It's a lot more than that. This is displayed in a finely graphic way with the new budget bill. However, at the same time, I spoke for the fact that we should reduce taxes and emphasize that such measures should be timed and that they should be called on to work market conclusions and hopefully we could support such measures in a successful workforce. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u62	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. They reflected exactly what I was concerned about the fact that the government's tax status had come primarily to some technical expansion, there was no particular policy or vision in that subject. The fact is, Iceland has what is the highest tax law in the OECD states when it comes to how the pension fund is presented here. When there is a decrease in taxation, whether in homes or in companies, there is always some technical process in the individual collective agreements and there is a chance that the results of possible tax doctors will always be similar to what has occurred in terms of the reduction of insurance fees in the country over the past few years, which is natural, as if I've been over again in speeches, completely out of the context of the cost to which the insurance bill is due. [[The president calls.]] But I'm worried that you're looking at this as a technical export, and you're always going to have to work out all the dates on the dress contracts you're making. [[The president calls.]] There should be a line that needs to be reduced in homes and businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u63	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm a spokesman for lowering my insurance fee, and I've been pretty clear on what I think is a fair income tax. We, together with this government, have emphasized that such actions called on what was negotiated in a labour market. In fact, I think it's just very responsible and completely clear, reasonable goals in itself. We are then waiting for a national budget to be set up for the next year, where these issues must be discussed in more detail, both of these two. [[The president calls.]] I think when it's up, there'll be trouble. A senator is reasonably satisfied with the direction of a reduction. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u64	A respectable president. This may be a short time for a meaningful discussion, but I still want to experiment. I agree with what you're saying. A member of the Conspiracy, about the points of decline that the government's financial policy is getting under the direction of a financial council, but I think we're getting a better one to discuss. I'm more concerned about the economic policy of this government, and maybe there's no economic policy in this government, there's nothing to be found. It speaks of the importance of increasing the access of technology and knowledge companies and increasing their focus on education, but there is no way to find out how to create these enterprises. There is no way to establish a stable environment, how to create them with low growth environments. In fact, the government has a special payment on the sector that may depend on the lowest level of knowledge and the least educational need for tourism. [[The president calls.]] And now I don't want to measure the value of tourism for the growth and maintenance of our economy, but it's just that we have to look to other factors when we're going to grow to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u65	A respectable president. When faced with economic discussions, it is difficult to do so, such as why. A senator says here, in two minutes. But the review of money policy is ongoing, and hopefully we will see the results of that work within a few weeks. That's a discussion. We'll have to step into the council when it's time to do it. The government here gives a considerable amount of money, and in accordance with financial policies that, as we look to the public as a whole, yields considerable effort, in reality, a position far better than most of us would like to compare with. It is a totally independent economic policy to put forth effort to meet the expectations and demands of the work market - we have already had many meetings with the workforce - and create conditions for stability, lower interest. [[The president calls.]] It's a financial policy in itself, and it could continue for a long time. Other than that, I must refer only to what has been said in the government covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u66	Mr. President. It's right next to the highest. Secretary of the budget, time is dropping, but we keep trying. The fact is, the budget adopted before the year - and it was seen in most comments - poses a danger for a higher level of growth and greater success. This was made very clear in the comments of most experts. It further undermines the competitive status of the exports, such as technical and wands, which I referred to here before. The fact is, at the same time we've seen a large and vigorous growth in tourism, there is no intention to find any export growth in technology and wand companies, whether in the service team or in the export. That is a shocking fact that we have seen in the past four years, and it seems that we should contribute to the same thing. In the past government, this was a measure of concern and attention, e.g. to simplify the value tax system and transport process up to the top level as economic action rather than tax action, i.e. that all the public could benefit from less valuable taxation while the competitive attitude of tourism would be balanced in view of its apparent urgency to other exports that have not grown at the same time. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm wondering about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u67	A respectable president. The change that the government has proclaimed regarding these forms of wine has largely been seen to increase in part and largely as a result of tourism. Second, the companies have recently taken on a considerable increase in pension, and the pay has been increasing in recent years, so there is reason to be quite concerned about the competitiveness of this article. Then, of course, it is a bit tricky in general to want to follow the path of choice in a variety of occupations that you think are desirable. I agree with what. When it comes to production, a senator - of course, it is by far the most likely that here is an article that produces excellent production and thus can pay higher wages. However, my basic view of the gangs is that we should have a floating gang and when we had it. A senator calls for a weaker crown when he brings in all increasing inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u68	A respectable president. A little consideration. An election too often, and how do you feel about doing this? A minister might consider whether there is a good reason for the argument, since not everyone who does. A small responsibility for frequent elections could be accepted. Then there are the questions. I'm gonna start with one. As a result of the official financial legislation that has a baseline transparency, can a minister agree that financial matters are generally indiscriminate in regard to basic government management? The budget debate is mainly about improvements, funding, and taxes, but to a very small extent the maintenance of a previous year's frame on which the budget is built, which is the largest part of the budget. So I would like to ask: Can a minister agree that the budget is inexplicable in terms of the basic affairs of the state? And then: Could a minister agree that this problem could be corrected by publishing some basic financial laws each year, e.g. In the spring? Fundamental laws would include information on the basic costs needed to cover government management, such as pay paid expenses, and so on. It would thus be possible to discuss the basis for maintaining an influence and to give those who do not have access to the opportunity to build up their own budgets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u69	A respectable president. I have so much faith in democracy that the best way to regain trust if something is lacking is to be elected. There is a way that I have spoken specifically, both last year and year before, so going to a voter's meeting is a way to settle matters. There's been no complaint for me to meet with the voters in the country. With regard to the concept of the law, I can't agree. Although it is a great deal of work to enter the government's budget of time and infrastructure, I cannot say that something is seriously lacking in regard to government policy. We give this discussion a considerable amount of time at the council, both the pay and the income side, more time than appropriate, e.g. correspondent in Denmark There, though, is a much larger Kingdom system within the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u70	A respectable president. Why, then, complain of an excessive election? I'm not sure that's gonna make up the language we're talking about here. In fact, financial advisers speak of the lack of the transparency that now dominates the law on public finance, which is very evident from its earlier opinions. My second question is business. During my last term, I asked a question that wasn't answered. The request was not extensive and did not have to get any specific information to answer that question. The time to answer that question was bed, much more than the three weeks a minister wants, for example. give to the humoral group. So I'd like to ask a minister who was responsible for answering that inquiry, because I'm worried about tactics: Who will determine whether the information that a minister is on public interest or not? What is a regular, organized way of providing information to the public and the media?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u71	A respectable president. In the administrative system, we have some somewhat shaped rules for information dealing with the media that can include. leading to a direct call to the decision-making committee on information matters saved in the Ministry of Presidency on this subject. That's what I think people should know about quite a recent example. Of course, ministers answer the queries directed to them in their language field. They may be less inclined to respond to popular opinion. It is, in fact, the Presidential decision that determines the issues involved in each minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u72	A respectable president. I'm not going to evaluate the new shape that we're testing, even though I think it's good for now. I'm gonna try to get a few issues. I must say, as it is, I really wanted to give a positive speech and talk a lot about the future and the opportunities there are, which are more than enough and better. But I believe it is my duty to speak only of a matter spoken daily, called the National Court case. Then start the boring. On May 16, last year, an expert at the State Department of Human and Human Resources sent mail to a lawyer at the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. That's what he says, by permission of a president: If a minister is going to make this changed for the council, a minister needs to review all the candidates independently based on the viewpoints it presents. This may include calling for information from all candidates, as well as informing them. It's written on May 16. On May 26, a letter comes to the Justice Minister himself from a lawyer at the Ministry of Justice, where the tip is repeated. May 28th, send back a letter to the Ministry of Economics and Human Resources Department to the Ministry of Directors and Attorney at the Ministry of Presidency, where it is repeated. On May 29, after this happens, the Minister of Justice gives a letter to the General Assembly of Justice, as well as to support in a guide to the selection of the new judgment, to the land's right, to the new important judgment level, all in this section agreeing that the time should be set and that it was important to have it. May 31, sending the same warning words to the National Council of Iceland's police. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Iceland's Law Association considers this official transfer to create a new court the trust and best necessary in a democracies society. May 31st, a book is published from what happened. The members of Jón Ólafsson Olafson and Birgitta Jónsdóttir, a board of directors and patrols where the warning words of the specialists who came before are repeated. And, yes, the Supreme Court had already spoken of an example in the case of No. 412/2010. On May 31, on the same day, a smaller part of the Board of Directors and Control Committee will send an opinion that says, with the permission of the President: ▪ With reference to the above, i.e. that it is not shown that a minister has performed his investigation under administrative law, that a minister has not respected the objection under administrative law, that it was not possible to obtain sufficient expertise in the case, that the council and the Committee were given excessive short time to consider the case, that the minister was not willing to postpone the case's payment to provide a minister with the opportunity to remedy the issue and ensure a careful trial treatment, that it is a matter for the order of the new court, which is entrusted to the next court order of the court order of justice, that it is necessary to reconcile a state of law order to the court and command to the court of the court of the court to be established above the question, the universal agreement that the matter should be dismissed and that the next session should be taken for the next session. It's like a program motion from what? .................. The council of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. June 1: The General votes and votes with 31 votes against 30. On that same day, a judicial minister's proposal is adopted by 31 votes against 22, eight sitting by. December 19th. The judgment of the Supreme Court falls, the final words of the case are that the warning words were correct. The warning words were correct that appeared first on May 16 which were addressed by specialists in the administration and monitoring committee, which were maintained here. I'm sorry to have to list some facts here. Fact No. 1 is that the Minister broke a administrative law on making his proposal for the Generals. It's undisputed. No. 2: It was the unanimous opinion of those who warned about this. They said it would undermine confidence in the land's rights, to our justice system. No. 3: The minister was warned in advance by the Ministry. No. 4: Committee experts warned about this before the council agreed. And No. 5: The senators warned of this and gave solutions, suggested an idea of more time. Then there was a month before a judge in the land had to be appointed. Hv. The members of the administrative and monitoring committee, as well as the Minister himself, would have had to work for another month and the highest. A minister could simply have developed logical support; she could simply have carried out the obligation that had been repeatedly pointed out to be part of it. Why did he do that? - You don't think it's a Minister? It was the highest. Minister of the same thing about confidence in the courts of the country? Or did she not rely on making such an argument that is in harmony with the law? A new court of the land was legally appointed to the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice in spite of warning warnings, with a body of Congress split down. It was accepted with less than half a vote at the General Assembly, although I must mention that there was a reason for it. Two senators a week from the hall because of ties. V.E.G. The minister of justice should show respect for the office to resign, of course, and not to be stumbled. We're talking about our judiciary system. Earlier today, however, it was noted that some time earlier ministers broke the law. Sure. But wouldn't it be nice if tradition were that they told off a ministers'office? Wouldn't that be nice? Would that be clear? Just an idea. Let's think about it later. Other than that, there may not be a complete comparison of some lawbreakers to undermine confidence in our judicial system, in a new level of judgment. It's not like that. Now I've spent the majority of my speaking lessons for this moment, but the rest of it is, and the case is not going anywhere, I utter it. But I'd like to go over a little lighter and discuss freedom of information and expression and privacy. Interest in these matters has increased again, which is good. A new theme of personal protection is coming to the council, which is very exciting and good. I'd like to remind them of the 2010 Parliamentary resolution proposed by that time. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, of the fact that Iceland created an extremely legal position for the protection of expression and information freedom. When the proposal was approved, she created us Icelanders with a great reputation in foreign lands. Unfortunately, the fine record is uncalled for today because abroad it was assumed that the approval of the proposal meant the completion of the project and that this was the best expression of freedom and freedom of information and privacy in the world. Not yet. We still have a chance. It's been a while since the proposal was accepted, but we still have a chance. Iceland is still ideal for future information equipment. Here is a high level of knowledge, an established knowledge industry, a highly progressive technological culture, cheap and largely environmental energy. I ask you, what if we had the best set of laws on top of all that? Because information technology is no longer just software and data plants, it has to deal with most of our most important rights. I like - and boring - to point to the smartphone, a two - edged sword. On the one hand, it makes it easier for men to break on others, to take pictures of people when they don't want to, even to record sounds when they don't want to, spy about people, it's easier than before with a smartphone. I'm sorry. But it's also easier to protect your rights, say to the police. If the police start to behave indecently, it is easier to monitor them and create evidence when people witness crime. Smartphones are a two - edged sword, and they deal with our rights in a very deep way. And we're supposed to have the best legislation around the world as far as information technology is concerned. Most important, I welcome the efforts of a new prime minister to continue the Constitution. It's been quite a while since we founded republics, such as by name and in other respects, but not in full my opinion. Then I'd like to make sure it's important that work is transparent. That was a mistake at the time of the time. The prime minister of Bjarni Benediktsson did not immediately explain his thoughts on how he had planned to work that case. But the highest. Happily, the current prime minister will have learned from this lesson and will be published later today. What a joy that is! It was a mistake not to have a meeting of the Commission open from 2013 to 2016. It's a huge mistake. We can't repeat them. But the biggest mistake is not using the existing thing, which, of course, is the bill of the Government Council. The only reason I can imagine finding closed is if any guests would like that. Of course, like other meetings, these meetings are to be open regularly. More about that later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u73	A respectable president. In this discussion, I intend to study the transport, the community, and the large opinions of the government under which it operates. The government's mission is to create a strong community and increase its competitiveness so that Iceland will become the land of opportunity for all the people of the country. Of course, we want our young people to go to Iceland because they're good to live and work. Therefore, society's infrastructure needs to be strong all over the country. A good society has to exist for everyone, but particularly the position of those whose feet are in a state where the government has a plan for it. Health, education options, and transportation are the vitals of every community that needs to be developed and improved. It is our politicians to create conditions, ensure opportunities, and equal access to services regardless of age or residence. We are facing a major national structure project. We showed the cards in the 2018 budget, where the council had to be reassigned for an unusual period of time. In a five - year financial program that is beginning to be prepared and started in March 1, we need to show how we will use this terms in order to live up to the words we have had. Transport is the basis for society's ability to exist naturally, both by road and by country, and by trade, culture, safety, and the development of society. Good transport makes work and is important for economic development, the basis for economic growth, and the prosperity of society. In the years that follow, the government is still going to add funding to the roads, and it is not going to provide for them and to deal with the cumulative problems around the country. In recent years, automobiles have multiplied with increasing numbers of tourists and material prosperity in the community. At the same time, we have not been able to maintain the road system that should be maintained, but lack of funding to do so has led to the breaking of pots. I'm afraid the situation is inexplicable. The transport system is essential to competitiveness, service, employment, and living quarters. Hence, there is a need for evolution to take into account the needs of people wherever they live, their professional life, their home, their service, and their security role. All evidence suggests that land's traffic continues to rise substantially over the years and years. Sadly, the increase has some undesirable effects. A tragic accident, a fatal accident, a terrible accident, is always unacceptable. A few years ago, there was a struggle to trust the safety of Icelandic ships, crews, and their passengers. We simply said that we did not accept what we have survived through the years, decades. With improved equipment, instruction, military regulations, and powerful rescue teams, the number of sea accidents was reduced, even in recent years, where no one has died at sea. After a serious plane crash a few years ago, we did the same thing in the flight; hardened rules and conducted procedures. And with good results. Similarly, despite the growth in traffic, we can reduce the number of road accidents, which are all too common a fact. In recent years, there have been constant efforts to reduce their number. Things have worked out. But better, if it's enough. There is always better to do, though, of course, we never stop all accidents. Increasing traffic requires that traffic safety be taken firmly, as everyone is responsible to reduce the number of traffic. Health and security need to be a priority in our society. We have the right to drive the roads and walk the streets without serious injury or death. Our children have a legitimate requirement to live in a safe environment. We should not accept that fatal accidents are a normal part of the transport system. Except for human tragedy caused by traffic accidents, their cost runs at tens of billions. Increasing traffic also requires water to use the road system as well as the number of tourists traveling around the country. These are users who come from a completely different type of traffic culture, but we may not know the driving conditions that are often in Icelandic winter. In a new transport plan, the priority will be for security and maintenance, where ambitious and efficient targets will be set for the safe and effective policy plans for transport in the land, in the sea and in the air. However, we will always be able to avoid making mistakes late. But the future goal must be to minimize the severity of traffic accidents. V.E.G. President. It is important for our peripheralized country that our basic construction, agriculture, fishing, and tourism, which are the basic national projects, or others, the creative branches, innovations, which we also need to promote around the country, yield valuables across the country. We build it up everywhere. Sadly, some areas are likely to be protected. Hence, new options must be sought to reverse the population's cycle of reduced and monotonous activities in small settlements. This is designed to enable the student loan system to promote residences in areas that include building up areas and looking to structural activities that are commonly used in our neighboring countries, where people may even use them. The student's loan system, or their payments, and a recession of the payments to promote the establishment of people with a lack of education in these areas, must also be most effective in using regional knowledge. A powerful national education system is thus a key factor in the continuing national prosperity. It is crucial to the fact that there is a powerful telecommunications and safe transfer that enables people to work anywhere, to make valuables, to do jobs, or to study where they want to live. Well, it's a pleasure that we have the Iceland project light-related around the country, which will be completed during this most excellent period, where we will be a fiber - optic cable, every home and business in the country. Or a train, 99.9%. A link to a built-in core that forms a strong work environment with efficient transport in which people always have access to acceptable health services, the opportunities to obtain education, employment opportunities, and living income are essential for the continuation of the entire country. It is an important part of the domestic flight and is to be part of a public transportation. We are going to look for ways to make the international flight more practical for the inhabitants of the country, thus shortening the distance between areas. In this context, we will see how a so - called Scottish route can be an incentive to increase the use of domestic flights in order to equalize national access to services. In general, air operations have been increasing in recent years, and much of it in GDP has increased to about tens of percent in flying - related functions. It can also be the basis for the construction of public and tourism across the country. That the tourists will be able to make it, especially during the winter. It is the foundation of tourism, and it is vital for employment, for the country, and for its employment. Thus, in relation to a transport plan, a team will be appointed in the near future to shape a policy recommendation for flight. Yes, there's a very large project and policy that affects the everyday lives of the public. During the next few weeks, financial plans will be made clear, with the emphasis on building strong structures that create strong and stable communities and at the same time ensuring the value of economic stability. I've heard it here, and I've listened to the discussion today that the government doesn't know what it's about to do. That's perfectly clear to me. We're going to build a strong, strong society on the basis of what we know and continue to develop it in the direction we want to pursue, that all the people of the country have the potential to seek service, equal service, of the State, and that they have the opportunity to take advantage of their home estate, whoever it is. To do so, there must be strong infrastructure. Along with the financial programme, my Ministry is working on transport policies, communication plans, and strategy. All these programs need to be realistic and timed plans in a rhythm with resources ready to accept. Increased investments and projects provide social value, equal distribution of projects, and time-to-time schedules with prescientity, minimising unnecessary rhythms that are consistent with abnormal economic growth. [[The president calls.]] It is something very valuable that we can be sure of by means of a transverse conversation at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u74	A respectable president. One minute here. A recent article in the hour explains that a member of the United States council in the left has a view that it is not the left - left personality of members of Congress to determine the selection of the ministers of other classes. So I'd like to ask the head of the advance party, at least. Transport and Regional Ministers, if it's the same with the senators of the Annexe Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u75	A respectable president. As we know, it is this way in conglomerate organizations that each class is responsible for its counsellers, that they are accepted as such. In Iceland, not a multiorganized government, but each minister is responsible for his own language, so it is very normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u76	A respectable president. I'm gonna allow me to protest this interpretation that members of Congress have nothing to say on the terms of other classes. Of course, the senators have a choice to say yes or no. Of these, the possibility of choice is much more important, for if members of the Parliament have nothing to say about the selection of other categories, it is said that members of Congress will never, under any circumstances, accept a lack of confidence. Of course, they have nothing to say about the Ministerial Choice. So I'm going to go to the top. A minister is not a word of mouth I would like to rephrase the first question: Can not the senators, under any circumstances, support a lack of confidence in a minister of another party? In other words: Can't the senators support a lack of trust and therefore influence the choice of second - rate ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u77	A respectable president. It is obvious that each of us can have a view of whether a minister's choice in cooperation should be so that class members may have a negative authority. That's not the way it is in the prax. That's why I reiterate my first answer. Of course, our selection in cooperative management is the choice of each party to set up a ministerial list. Usually, members of the Synod agree to the prefect's proposal to sit as ministers in such conglomerate governments. Regarding the theoretical question of whether at any time in some corporation government, the members of the Agency could not vote with distrust on some minister who had done something wrong, I'm just going to leave it alone because it's obvious that there's a need to take a stand on it in case of such a thing. And it's not on the table today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u78	Mr. President. I wanted to introduce to you the need for real regional policy for Iceland. The fact is, and I think we can all face it, that the previous strategy has been many who were exceptionally powerless. But I sure hope there will be a change. Sadly, all too often cases affecting the country do not pass through institutions and departments, simply because of the lack of the understanding of the staff of the situation outside the city of Reykjavík. You can, for example, do so. What are some strange decisions about surgical cuts in connection with the external Eyjafjordy and the Redfaring crew that look like, I think, especially in the excel paper, but not in the real world? So I'd like to ask you about the highest position. Minister. How does he feel about the creation of a complete community policy that would penetrate all the institutions of the State so that all of them would have to take into account the foundation effect of their decisions?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u79	A respectable president. I like the idea of a local minister very much, and I'd like to say that it's what we suggested in the campaign. In each chapter of the Kingdom covenant, we will discuss settlements. I mentioned in my introduction that it was necessary to make a picture of the lawsuits that hear under my ministry, i.e. The communications, transportation, and geographic matters are integrating them. It was adopted at a council several years ago that the law of the law should consult with a graffiti to explore their impact on the settlements of the country. I think it's part of it. In a time of government in 2013/2016, the Council's operating network, which worked in many ways well but may have been a lack of functionality, into the Ministry, ensuring that humans always have the right framed glasses for specific matters. I think we can do better, and that's the meaning of trying. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u80	Mr. President. I have to take advantage of this opportunity to mention my concern about the state of transportation in the country and to specifically mention the state of the internal flight as the highest. A minister certainly came into his speech earlier. In particular, I have news from last week's meeting with Istavia that we are actually confronted with shutting down airports for the next few hours if nothing changes. Similarly, it will be tragic if, as we have seen in the news of the last days, we see the opportunity to build a new portal into the land. It takes e.g. to strengthen the Akureyri airport by means of equipment such as aeroplane equipment and extending housing. I think those people who've been around when the Super Breaks are coming, they'll see pretty clearly. And then, naturally, it's maintained, enlargement of the air space, etc. So I ask the highest. Minister how he intends to respond to the pleas of local management, travel services, and Istavia reforms. Will he respond as he really is needed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u81	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator in the knowledge that there are better things to do in the domestic flight. I think it is almost possible to say that few people are happy with their service. At the same time, however, there is tremendous opportunity. It certainly takes a lot of money, and I trust that it will be the sound of the council when we offer such suggestions, including that. about the Scottish route that supports public transportation for the inhabitants of the country. But even more money is needed at these airports. We may not be talking about any astronomy numbers, but we are still talking about several hundred million a year to make this acceptable. I think there's a chance. We at the Ministry have been studying issues such as There will be an aeroplane airport, and I trust it will be as fast as possible to solve the problems that exist. [[The president calls.]] It would certainly have been better if it had been done before we had to deal with the problems he is today and try to do as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for good speech and extensive speech. Transporting is almost behind the country and under pressure from roads. I decided that a minister spoke of a new travel plan coming in the next few weeks. It'll be exciting to see it. I'd like to ask the Minister. Since 2003, we have been on the agenda for the forest of Chets and have done little or nothing. In the fall, the minister of the environment spoke of his failure to agree with the environmental evidence that a road would be laid. May we expect the minister to succeed? [[The president calls.]] Is he afraid of the impact on such projects that would add to the economic problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u83	A respectable president. Regarding the stimulus I've only heard in the media, I don't know if it stems from what the minister here said, that we had to look to the expanding effect when we were at the least. setting priorities in the next few years. In fact, it was said that it would be quite obvious that although there was a need for very expensive projects on the southwest corner, perhaps 100 to 200 billion, there were also projects around the country. I'm less concerned that projects that are farther away from the United States have an effect, so they say. For Chef Forest, that project, it is today at the company's, waiting for payment, changes to the main strategies, and then the possible implementation. But if my words were to be understood so that the transport program would be entering a council in the next few weeks, I would like to correct them. I don't expect a transport plan to be made until possible in the fall, but first, during the last few weeks of the council this spring, and I don't think that would give you time to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u84	V.E.G. President. Then I've been misheard by the next few weeks, but many weeks are for months, and then years. In terms of animal transportation, road chairs came to the fore during the last term, which I have heard the current minister of the transponder for the appointment. Could this be true, however, where there are other routes, as was the case in Halfjörður? It was a way around, and it was justified by the fine conduct of road users. Then I can think of a potential Daffy Way that's actually been on schedule for as long as the Forest. [[The president calls.]] There are now only 2/3 of the amount required for fuel tax and should go to road transport. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Where's 1/3 of the price that's really supposed to be...? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u85	A respectable president. It has been so long that much of the money taken into a money fund and unfortunately not all for building up. We know that from 2010 onward and perhaps until 2015, far too little of it went to build up the transport system. It has only improved in recent years, but more significant improvements are needed and will need considerable financial support. At the same time, we've also had indiscriminates about electric cars, tweezers, and other eco-friendly cars, which are the best, but at the same time we're digging a little bit away from the income system we've had to build up road transports. We need to think only about how we can make this possible for the future so that we can make sure that we earn money. One way it would be to pay a price, such as to pay a price. A senator mentioned, for projects where there is a choice. We know the Waffen Vault tunnel, maybe one of those. But it is true that the senator's words to the customs gate in Reykjavík were not written in the Constitution, and I do not work by doing so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u86	A respectable president. Iceland's national network is a twit. There are packed accident traps all over the country. But the worst parts are on the Rhine Way of Assland and south of Straumsvík. There is yet to double the road and as far away from Mosfellsville to the Halfground tunnel. Is that on schedule for the next few days? When? Why on earth has this not been done? This is not supposed to cost much, given the cost of doing things. This is about 2 billion on the Smokey Way in Hafnarfjörður. I don't know how much it would cost to fix the road on Kjalarnes. But what must be done in those places before it is done? There's tens of thousands of cars going around every day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u87	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentions two sections of the road, which are certainly very heavy, and unfortunately, accidents occur too often. In fact, I think the improvements in these chapters are now calling for a considerably higher money than the senator mentioned. There are some improvements in the current transport program. Some of them have been funded and implemented this year. But there should not be a completion of the Smokey Way or the Westland Road in Hölfland, much less take the Southland road, and a great number of road roads in Iceland, where traffic is long beyond the capacity of the road system in that area. We look ahead to a very big project. We need a substantial increase in funds from the Council to make it possible for us to set priorities and plan ahead of time as well as over time for us to complete it so that we do not have a chance to do so but, rather, total transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u88	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister also came into the ideal poorer and older citizens. I'd like to ask him if he was willing to accept that older civilians are on kids or teenagers, or that they're well below those who're thinking of kids and teenagers who don't need housing. They are so low that there is a serious disgrace to 70% of such a thing. Microscopic compensations are paid at a rate of less than 200,000 dollars. Then it is even more shameful that if these poor people get some kind of funding, purchases, or other purchases, they are considered to be making money to cut down other relief classes. By doing so, the Kingdom is caring for a billion - and - a - half - year Kingdom. K. of those who should be least. They can't even afford to pay it back, and they shouldn't. [[The president calls.]] This is very bad because people don't even know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u89	A respectable president. It is true that the government intends to evaluate the status of those less lenient in the community, those defined in relative poverty and to carry out simply less than I think a community like Iceland, as rich as it is now, can be content with. V.E.G. Social Affairs will lead them to work. Of course, the idea is to have a conversation with the representatives of the Corporate Community in order to find ways to prevent any problems we know from coming directly, against a dollar, as we know today. One way to do this is to appreciate the ability to work. However, such part - time work is fundamental. There, countries and communities must set a good example. And, of course, for that job, a normal and decent salary is to be paid, as I think we should. A senator agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u90	Mr. President. The Government Treaty of the current government has a good choice of conversation and consultation. That's fine. I did so in a case of the highest order. Minister that he mentioned that he wanted to make the plans for young people to choose Iceland. I think he said it quite correct. In his talk, he also said that we can succeed by cooperating in a parapolitic way. It's all right. So I wanted to attract the highest attention. Minister has a resolution issued by the Young Farmers Association today, and I don't know if it's the highest. A minister has seen, as they highly criticize the provision of the present marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gricultural minister to start a new session on the Review Committee and thereby reduce consultations and turn out the voices of young people. [[The president calls.]] Is that appropriate?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u91	A respectable president. Actually, you're right next door. A senator that I have not seen this conclusion and therefore do not know the basis for it. The government has placed much emphasis on the growth of the Generals, increasing consultation. A number of things have been mentioned in the discussion today, where we are working to do exactly the factors, to have the conversation within the council with all groups of targeted issues into the future. I always feel that there is improvement, no matter where you work, whether it is in agriculture or in other matters, that you have a conversation, and especially with the young. You're right. A senator quoted me from my speech that it is simply this way in the large world, which always becomes smaller and smaller, and with better and better education for young people - one of the great things we have in Iceland, that we can educate the young people well -- that people have increased the choice of where they want to be put down in the future. That's why we have to be careful about Iceland's competitiveness in all things, so young people choose to live in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u92	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. With the permission of the president, I would like to read from this conclusion briefly, which says: ▪ Instead, the number of members of the committee is now to be reduced by half, returning to ancient times, where few come to the table. Therefore, the minister disqualifys the policy of achieving the vast understanding of many sides of domestic agreements. It is not represented by the Environment Ministry, which, however, has many contact areas with the agriculture, nor by young farmers who have to live for the most advanced policy currently targeted. Is this acceptable, topv? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u93	A respectable president. I want to reiterate what I said about this earlier. I've neither studied the assumption nor the basis. Hv. A senator certainly read from the conclusion, and you can imagine where they are going. I believe it is important in each case to have as much consultation as possible, especially if people are considering that long-term policies such as market contracts are concerned, to ten years of age. A discussion with the young, as indicated in the conclusion, will need to be made with such an arrangement longer than most others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u94	A respectable president. I want to start by saying a happy new year with everyone, this is our first day together, and really, I'm very grateful for this discussion and the points here have already taken place and also the answers. I would like to be optimistic and smiling and positive, but I'm not going to be. I'm gonna talk about the people of the country. I'm going to talk about grief. I'm going to talk about the untimely death of young people. I'm going to talk about the fact that we're here and now we're in a situation of terror in the community today. The social addiction is growing, and what are we doing in it? I wrote an article that appeared on January 19, 2000. In the morning paper. It was a little fistula. I was moved to write to him after visiting the hospital Vóg on the other hand, and I went up to the Vikings, where our addicts'follow-up was carried out. In fact, it is more painful than tears to think that 32 Icelanders under 40 died because of addiction in 2017. Of these, 14 were under 30 years of age. Is there anything we can do about it? I say yes. It doesn't matter whether we are in a position of government or government. Surely we can agree that this is a major project that we need to step in and work on. We're talking about terrible deaths on the road. Some of these are directly attributed to the addiction and the effects of the drivers when they face these terrible accidents. I'm not counting these deaths into the 32nd. We are talking about 40 to 750 of the population of Iceland, who commit suicide each year. Many of them are addicts, and they are not included in this number, 32. We might be talking about 100 Icelanders a year. What is that in one term period? A minor estimate is that we are looking closely at over 300 Icelanders in the grave, untimely. And this is our treasure. What accounts for this situation? We must begin to learn to view the picture collectively. These committees are referred to as "messages. " We're talking about coming in on staff here. If ever we should put together a working group, it is now. We're talking about a so-called opioid, which is actually a very ugly word, it's morphine-related medication. I can name Contalgin, Oxycontin is another. These are the drugs that have come to the black market, and our young people use to inject themselves into a vein. It's a terrible situation, e.g. in the United States today as a result of these morphine related drugs. It is our sixty-three, who have been chosen here at the Allied Assembly of Iceland, to put our arms around this suit and do it so that we can be proud of it. It's for us to bring protection. It is for us to build for our children. It's our job to go to nursery, elementary school, help them, make them feel good about walking out into life, and there are no more than 30% of young boys who graduate practically from the 10th grade. This group of people I'd like to talk about and call after here, and now they're going to cover all the data, all the reports, bring the whole foundation of who's going to get caught up in this crisis, this miserable place. We know that social status does not seem to matter, but it does. It is much more common for those who suffer poverty, those who fail to follow along in society, those who are unable to go to higher school or shed it, find themselves uneasiness, they do not feel comfortable, and get involved in something they would surely have chosen not to do. But we're lucky. We have great professionals at the U.S.A. We have professionals, doctors, nurses, psychologists, psychiatrists, great people who could help our people in a much more powerful way than they can, and they have the resources to do today. There are over 350 people on the waiting list. There will be quite a few of them dead before it comes to them. There are 63 spaces that can be treated at once. It lacks funding. It is for us to set priorities and give financial support where it comes best. We're talking about the future. We're talking about our children. We're talking panic. It's us trying to do everything we can to wipe this out. We're supposed to cut a lot of armor against today's terrible drug problem. Nor should we punish her, so that we see nothing else, but we throw those in prison who are led off the path or otherwise punish them. We're supposed to put our arms around our people and help them. As the situation is now at the U.S.A., you know that, they are personally financing the walking department they have to put their arms around the people after they've been in Vogi for four weeks. They finance it themselves. They don't get a cent from the state to the walking department. Yet, they have psychological services for children of alcoholics and addicts, with psychiatric services and walking departments. We should be ashamed not to strengthen them more than we can see. I challenge us to come together because I know that it's hard to find a family in Iceland today that hasn't used to help the U.S.A. and to have some family member who's needed their help. - I'll have a drink of water, because now I'm so completely idealistic that I'm all drying up. But seriously. That's pretty sad, isn't it? We don't have to have it like this. We're an island north of the prom sea, and this drug that flows in here and so on; if there's any nation that should be able to stand for not filling the country with the stuff that comes from outside, at least That's it, that's it. We have a special situation, and we are expected to make greater use of it. We're supposed to take advantage of where we are on the map. The Tyrfingsson I'd say had the greatest vision, experience and knowledge of this problem I'm talking about, says it's just becoming a mutation today. We're looking at some kind of landscape. Only between 2016 and 2017, five more youths died from these terrible drugs. That's all I have to say. I think I've said everything I need to say. The future is ours. It doesn't matter which category we are, it's one of the matters we must be able to come together for as we did this morning when we met in the #metoo Revolution, as we're doing now when we're trying to work together to improve and change the constitution. It's exactly where we can come together and work for the good of our young people and the future in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. In many ways we share the view that it is important to view the problem as a whole. A senator goes over here. The drug problem is not merely a problem or a subject of some individual in it but a work and subject of the community. In view of the discussion, I would like to make it clear here that in the past few weeks and months, both the surgeon's office and the Institute have been mapping it. A senator here refers to the use of opioids and other medicines that can cause addiction. How important it is to realize how much it is! According to the surgeon general's office, office has greatly increased the burden of monitoring prescriptions for addictive medicinal products. The government is working on a number of things. First, the office has made contact both formally and informally with a number of doctors who have received letters by comment on the prescription. The Commission recently published instructions on the good practice of physicians for prescribing medicines including is being prepared for new national guidelines in the treatment of chronic pain. It's clear that Iceland has a problem with this case. We give too much of these drugs. It is part of the problem that rages. There's a senator here. A meeting has been made between the pharmacological office of the surgeon and the EMA. for strong pain killers. There are fixed measures to further escape from further prescriptions of strong pain killers. The surgeon general examines all deaths due to suspected drug poisoning. If you receive or have been prescribed unusual amounts of these medicines, you will react specifically. A respectable president. I wanted to do what. A member of the council is particularly aware of that angle. [[The president calls.]] But I agree with the senator that we need to act in a complete way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u96	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of health for the counter-reguage. I think more about solutions, not about what we can do now in looking at things and mapping things. I think about how many people die in the meantime. I want them treated right away. I want to get them to help right away. Much of the morphine-related drugs in the underworld are not prescribed by doctors in Iceland. They come from abroad. They're smuggled into the country. They are popular for consumption and use. Most of them may not expect to be buried soon thereafter, but that is the fact. I'm just saying, there's gotta be some improvements right away. There's nothing to wait for. That's two or three deaths every month in Iceland today. This is so serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u97	A respectable president. The question is correct. That this is often the struggle for life and death. It is equally important for us who have power and influence in this society to look to a complete solution, to base our decisions on a strong and safe foundation, to have data to support our decisions as soon as we have no time to lose. This does not rule out each other, i.e. to take action for those who are bent on their feet and, on the other hand, to consider more carefully the registrations being carried out here, what is behind them at any given time, and to keep their arms in good repair. As indicated by what. A senator is also talking about how we live in our children's lives, how we live in poverty and social difficulties, how we live to form the prisoners and their potential for reform, and how we return to our community, how we live our mental - health services in the widest sense, how accessible psychological services are to those who attend services into the clinics, not just here in the capital area, but throughout the country. It's all the same thing, i.e. looking at an emergency problem for individuals, while trying to reach out for the community as a whole. That's where I know what to do. A senator and I are on our journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u98	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of health, thank you again for the counter-regument. I can't figure out why we can't exactly say what we can do right now, right now. A healthy one, all right. The fact is, when a minister speaks of collecting data, getting complete information, and so on, 24,000 Icelanders are enrolled in the U.S. database. More than 30% of those who die each year are people already in the U.S. database, people they know about and people they've called after putting their arms around and helping right away, as long as they individuals want help. I say teamwork, teamwork, teamwork. It would change things, and of course it's about funding. The fact is, too, that the emergency cases that enter the Land hospital for addiction are going straight up to The Vig. It may also be a matter of trying to link together the subject of putting our nose around the drug problem and of trying to guide and help them into life again and on the other hand, Land Hospital of University Hospital. When we talk about doing something collective and based on something strong, let's at least say that it's a good idea. use what we already have, and see what we can do to make it better, improve, and do it right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u99	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir An Sæland Howl for a good talk, and even though it was dramatic, it dealt with real problems. I cut by the fact that she left, she and her party, visiting the hospital Vig. We are on our way there soon to get to know and review that activity. This is an enormous problem. The Senator introduced a poor verse of alcoholism and drug problems. Now alcohol or alcoholism is not partial, so it is not just the poor or the poor who suffer that grief; it is not partial. The same day, the house - to - house problem was on the news. Most of the campers and women suffer from alcoholism. I was just happy that there was a health minister in the hall because I published a written request for the hospital Vog, and the senator came in just at the Hospital Vog, that there were 350 on the waiting list. Hospital Vogg was a down payment for the 1995 government, which was cut off to treat matters. Since then, nothing has been added. [[The president calls.]] Time is much too quickly to pass. I'm so glad we're in the same place as what. A senator owns an ally in me. [[The president calls.]] I'll go through it better in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I've got to start now by saying that. A senator may have misunderstood me if he understood it so that I spoke of being just poor and poor people with addictions. I mentioned that this problem was not a question of rank or rank. But this does not change the fact that there is a greater tendency, when a person has nothing to do with anything disappearing and has no place in his head, that he is bored by the so - called right path. I hope you'll experience the same injection as we did when we went to Viking and Vig, but that doesn't change the fact that I know a lot about this operation and I know a lot of people who have been helped. I hope they'll be much, much more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u101	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I mentioned Vog. It is now that the Hospital Vogur is the only hospital acquitted alcoholic, i.e. Alcohol and drug addicts. There they send patients from the Land Hospital and the Blockhouse and other places they work for. It's the only hospital involved in detoxification of alcohol and drug addicts. But this is the wait list, for the sake of money. The Senator spoke of the need to be done immediately. What needs to be done immediately is that there must be more money in the hospital Vand so that they can receive and help more patients. The trouble of outdoor workers is not only housing. He is mainly an alcoholic. Then the senator came in on preventative measures. Prevention is far too little, and too little money is put in it. If more money were put on preventative measures, it would save for health care. It's been examined, it's totally konscret. I would say that this is something a health minister could consider much more. But I'm not gonna have this any further. Thank you so much for the discussion, and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u102	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Senator. Yeah, that's right, we don't have any money. They need funding right away. That is, in fact, a great willingness to act with those experts and those who work in this category. That's why I'm saying exactly this now: The government is working on a five-year budget. We get to look at it at the end of March. I'm sure to hope that there we will be able to see the will of the project so that we will really take our hands together and be ready, at any cost, to save our people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u103	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the President of the Generals for this interesting experiment. I've been here a while, secondest of all. President, and I think this is an interesting experiment that we are going to develop to promote the political debate. Then we can talk about how the classes order, how they respond, etc. I think it's a remarkable experiment that we should continue to develop, and I encourage both presidents and members of the House to do it, it will be done on a regular basis, and we'll be in a certain innovation here at the council. This morning I was at a meeting of the political parties of #meto. It was good to be at this meeting. This was also an important meeting for many reasons, since we and others, along with them, try to come together as members of the political parties. Despite being different from the highest. However, the prime minister correctly and from different categories said that we are trying to lead together in order to fight against the things that have gone too far in the shadow of power. I hope that it will be more than just meetings and words. The suggestions that may include Governments have offered everything they need. Then it is important that we give those who tolerate sexual abuses a security problem. They feel that they are not alone out there and that the time that has been way too long will be shorter, the response will be faster, the community will react, and that the doer himself will be exposed and will no longer be able to survive under the shadow. #meto reveals a little why we're in politics For whom are we involved in politics? That way we can promote politics. As tragic as this is, situations associated with #methoo, there is, in fact, a certain beauty in politics when we try to push things forward to change and make things more human and human in Icelandic society. I am older than two times, as I previously could, in politics, and have experienced many experiences. Experience is invaluable. We've all made mistakes. We're supposed to learn from them, especially the one here, and I've tried to do it. We've taken a fight. I've taken a fight, a lot of very serious ones, others completely unnecessary, get in conflict with the others and these things, sometimes sorry, sometimes not. Sometimes you had to take a certain fight. How, then, do we continue to do all of this? Can we say how we will change politics? Then I think it's important, and I'm still hoping - this is a nice day, because at noon, Prime Minister also announced a meeting on the constitution - and I hope that we will leave the holes in that matter. Do you have or do you mind changing the constitution? Are you in or out of the country? Are you a capital resident or not? Are you in or against a city line? I don't know exactly where the Independence Party is going, but are you with or against her? Can't we just take it further and try to build on information, conversations, and take further into consideration the issues that may vary. for the future? Then we are held at the council with the material of the different interest groups, all sorts of interests. How important it is that we listen to these interest groups, to their leaders, and to individuals who have strong opinions about the current issues! We are not meant to pretend to know or understand how the mechanism of action works, but we must also have the courage to discern when such interests are fighting for normal and righteous changes in behalf of the entire community, where public interests are taken in greater interest and when these interests have crossed the line and start rocking. Democracy community. Why do I pull this out? That's even. ... becauseof the way I had my last election, where you saw a high-priced person launching propaganda pages, very disturbing who financed them, and how it was tried systematically to change the outcome of an election. That's a problem and a subject that we have to face together, for I will present a report in order to review it. It will also be informative to observe which categories will support, which categories will support the fact that these studies are being conducted. There are local elections ahead, and people are back on their way with this opaque, filthy propaganda. There are challenges that await us. I am convinced that the way we handle things in restoration, liberality, internationalism, equality, competition, empathy, freedom will contribute to the greater benefit of public interests. That's how we're gonna push our selfish interests off the table, our secret thinking out of the table. That's how I look at our challenges in Upcoming and how we're going to keep the government involved. You see, it needs to be kept in touch. We will see how that matters. We all support the structure of infrastructures and important tasks, improving health systems, etc. But we can't shut down the change, and especially not already 25 years since we agreed to the EEA deal. It must continue to have the courage and courage to look into the future. That does not mean putting the pot on top and not discussing changes in money policy. I'm afraid that at the conclusion of the Committee, which will be published in the following weeks, the lowest common name is found, i.e. that there will still be dollars for a very little change. This means that large companies can continue to settle in euros and dollars while Icelandic homes will remain on the bus of the roller coaster with damage to Icelandic homes and the public. This is what we will continue to fight and keep the government on the subject. That's the agricultural business. V.E.G. Agricultural minister began by changing the review board. All right. No problem changing the review board, I did, but with the intention of expanding it, getting consumers, getting young farmers, not just the products and farm groups to the table, but getting more and more vision. But now it is to be squeezed. And it's not just me who's supposed to say this but young farmers who also criticize the highest. Agricultural minister systematically. I may not have been surprised if it had come from the forward party, but it's quite remarkable, and I've said before, when the Independence Party is in command of the forward party, it's like the Independence Party has to be the forward party too. [[Up front.]] Which, I'm sure, would be good, at the very best. The head of the advance party. It's one thing. Then there is another. First thing you see at the council at the highest. Agricultural minister is that he withdraws a bill as a decommissioning principle and encourages healthy competition. I say again, I wouldn't have been surprised if the Minister had been from the forward party or left green, but this comes from a category that teaches itself to be free, which teaches itself to compete. But it's to be subtracted. What's the biggest thing in the world. Aggressor to walk when it comes to promoting specific rules at the expense of healthy competition? We know exactly who's going to pay for it, who's going to show up for it. There are consumers and smaller producers who are trying to promote themselves within the milk production. Shall we start talking about the fishing business? I only got a minute and a half left. Let's just get into a special discussion about that, chief. President. It'll also be interesting to know what's going to happen there, and I'm afraid of it. Prime Minister, to work effectively when it comes to fishing. All classes except the Independence Party were willing to bring up the temporary agreements on the transpiritian committee at Christmas. One group was the Independence Party, the one who is now involved in the marine and agricultural services. It's starting to make you suspicious. These are the challenges we will face during the restoration process and will keep the government in place. There's no doubt about it. It gives me a lot of thought and anxiety to learn that it is really my opinion that the discussion I thank again for is waiting for a change. The feeling is that there should be a change in the constitution, the resource policy, which I hope all classes agree that we will enter the constitution next time. The nation's resources, especially in the sea, the sea around the land, are the share of the nation. If the agreement is to be held over the water until the constitution is approved, wait three more four years, that will not be satisfied. They've already given the tone that the fishing costs should be lowered. Fishing costs are due to access to a limited resource, the national resource. [[The president calls.]] It will not be left behind in that struggle, and we will keep the government on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It surprised me, I must say at the moment, that in a few words she went over that the candidates were likely to do something and something like that. A senator doesn't think it's wise. The forwarding policy is now a rational policy, so usually we take only the wisest course. Now it's a repercussive dissociation from the Independence Party, perhaps not strange at what. These include, the Chairman of the Cradle, using the opportunity and the bike a little bit in the Independence Party. Where it is. A senator began to mention things I've done about how reverends seem to be unable to learn what the facts are, and I'd like to ask them why. A member of the former marine road and agricultural minister: the economic measures being carried out on the basis of a domestic agreement, in case of need. One member of the Independence Party, sitting in this hall, voted, returned 3 billion a year according to the opinion of the Institute of Economics in a published report. Councilmen of the Revolution never seem to know or want to testify, last in explosion this weekend. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson then claimed that the agreement had not turned in, and it seems that they do not understand the agreement, the exception of competitive laws given to the Batsamals, and that they refuse to accept that this contract brought in 3 billion each year for economic management, with 2 billion going to consumers in this country and 1 billion to farmers. It was the deportation station that took care of this economy. Then when they come, then what? A senator as a agricultural minister in his day suggested that men disappear just like that - what would they do? [[The president calls.]] Were they going to give it back, take it back? 3 billion a year gave that contract, 2 billion to consumers, and 1 billion to farmers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u105	Mr. President. It's no surprise that the advance party will come up here in a pita and talk against competition in a milk market. That's what I was trying to draw out. This is not surprising, since the advance team has never spoken for competition, let alone the interests of consumers when it comes to agriculture. But I look at consumer interests and farmers as a common interest. I believe and trust, and that's what I'm saying, that the members of the Independence Party, and it's noteworthy that the Ministers of the Independence Party, perhaps not so much, should not be in the Senate because they may not want to take a very big part in changing the practice of a council, but it's surprising to me, and that's what I'm saying, the Independence Party is going against fighting for competition in a milk market. If we believe in competition, I believe it will lead to good, including the. for consumers and farmers in the land. We want to be sure that we will continue to support farmers in our country. There's no one, and I hope no one disagrees with me about it. We're supposed to trust the infrastructure. We're supposed to go into supporting farmers, including to increase and strengthen them on carbon equations. We're supposed to go to a regional strength, which may include... The local community did not necessarily agree with me at the time, we should go to a much more targeted regional scholarship, dare say where the sheep'flocks are better or should be more specific than anywhere else. We're supposed to go to support young farmers. We're supposed to be afraid to say, "We want to get a balance on the production. " We are also afraid to say that farmers cannot be treated in their own way. It may well be that the forwarding party supports its products, I don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u106	A respectable president. This was exactly what I suspected, so I went up here to answer. I asked for clear answers if the Crooks could accept that in a contract. A senator, who was then a member of the Independence Party, had made a domestic agreement that gave 3 billion a year's advantage, 2 billion each year went to consumers, and 1 billion to farmers, whether they could accept it here in a pontu so that it could be added only to the paper that the Reunion had understood that agreement. You see, at the present market contract, special contracts were made with young farmers. It was also a regional agreement. In the course of memory as a agricultural minister, it was also taken away, in contrast with what was presented in the discussion of an explosion during the weekend, that the little dairy ones could buy milk from the Velacts at price as a third party determined, exactly as humans are talking about. It's just been all done. They're just supposed to admit things the way they are. So the 2004 agricultural contract, which became too long because it was extended several times, yielded 3 billion a year, 2 to consumers, and 1 to farmers. And there has been regional support, supported by young farmers. This problem is being taken into account by a third person's estimate of the price of a person's sitting at the same table in order to increase competition in a reasonable way. Exactly. All done. Once it would be good for a person to accept things as they are, but stop standing here and go crazy that the forward party is some sort of back-up group against competition. That's wrong. That's exactly what we've been working on. And it would be a pleasure if the Cradle members wanted to understand that this was the case and accept the facts here from this General Assembly's symposium. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-22-14.u107	Mr. President. I think that's exactly what this case is for the head of the forward party and the highest. A secretary of transportation stressed that it is only simple to eliminate this special rule. Why maintain that rule? Why? Why are the special rules being maintained? There's no evidence that the economy was as good as it should have been. ... inTheHardroomnumbers. What is it we saw even. in the discussion when we reassigned the prices committee, why was it fragile? Could it be fragile because we're drawing out information, increasing transparency within the agricultural system? That's one of the things I'm missing when I think about the time I was in the Ministry, that transparency is all, far too small. Not just that the system itself or those involved do not understand it well enough, but that consumers and the public do not understand the structure of the prices. It's probably a lot better to get everything on the table. I believe that competition is an advantage for everyone, for consumers and farmers, for Icelandic society. This needs to be reasoned specifically. I haven't heard the argument from the highest. Transporter's reasons for maintaining a special policy. I just haven't heard the argument yet. I haven't heard them. That's exactly why and what they say. A secretary of transportation who was here in a month ago, which we on Resurrection will keep this government in touch with the subject. She will be kept in touch with the material. Special interest will never be made to the public any more. [[Up front.]] However, the forwarding party and word are the highest. The secretary of transportation and the head of the advance party are thus planning to continue, in fact, at 100 years of age, to maintain special interest in the advancement of the Party. [[Up front.]]
