ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u1	At a meeting yesterday, on June 5, 630, on the Board of Elders, referred to the Economic and Business Committee. The case is dismissed from the committee; however, it was not to be called. It was to be passed directly to the 2nd. and has been corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u2	Three letters have been received from the social and equal Justice Minister where they request an invitation to provide written answers to panels. 841, about the bioavailability of disabled people, from Vilhjálmur Árnason, on a threshing floor. 955, for the strength of projects and for the control of the minister's language, from Albertína Flanders, the daughter of Elíasdóttir, and the river. 918, of responsibilities and payment adjustments, from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u3	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, with a big report, a report entitled The Future of Icelandic Money Policy, was presented. Today, the person listed here has read all 247 pages, but this report gives evidence of how to visualize the changed financial policies of Iceland. By permission of the President, I would like to give special attention to the Commission's proposal No. 5 which says: The CAP budget should continue to be 2.5% but the price index target should not be considered due to the costs of its own housing. Thus, prices should be excluded from the prices of housing. I am so happy that this battle with our Middle Class has made our way into this report so memorable. And this report has included influenceed by the fact that even the head of the Annexe Party took an unexpected turn and said that the advance party had always supported this matter. That made me happy. The number of people who want to support this national arrangement is increasing in this room. You see, we have a unique opportunity now to fulfill what is said here because the council is now, in fact, still on a committee, the bill of our Central Classes for housing to go out of the index base. We can answer the call of this report right now and actually do what is presented here, that housing prices go out of the index base. I encourage the Congress to seize the opportunity and set this right. I'm the next to be sure that if it happens on these spring days it will, for example. pay for later this year's collective contract. It has, of course, been shown by several unions that it is their interest that this will be done. I encourage the Senate to answer that call, let's get it over with, and get it over with right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u4	Mr. President. Now that we are here in the last days of the council working to negotiate and agree on how we complete our Senate work and many matters under it, I believe that it is a recall that a good partnership can be achieved here as in a professional committee with a beach fishing bill. It was successful to achieve a wide degree of agreement about the bill presented by a professional station committee and became a law, and it is produced in coastal fishing. The first month has come out very well, and the distribution between parts of the country has been very good, and it has been going along as well as we, the presidents of this case, for the better part of the world. The problem is that boats in coastal fishing continue to decrease, as happened between 2016 and 2017, and there is concern. But I hope this new bill will cause more people to go to shore fishing and take advantage of the increase in the beach fishing pool. It was a 41 - year - old boat that covered more than 10 tons of coastal fishing in May, the country's distribution. The product of May was less than 19% of the change to shore fishing, so all of this is well on its way and proving that there are now safety reasons. There's no trouble with blood flow. I'm sure they'd be better in many places, but we don't hire any action or weather here, generals. Even if we want to control much, there is only one authority there. But I would like to express my joy that it was possible to achieve this matter in a large position here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u5	A respectable president. The government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, has been sitting for about six months. I have no doubt that many governments have started or done so many good things in such a short time. It took the government less than a month to raise expenses from the previous budget bill of 19 billion, with the largest of which health issues took place. I hope the government will first discuss the budget for the next five years. It contains very good news about the structure of the interiors of the country that has been ignored for far too long, with high expectations. In health matters, over the next five years, we will increase money to the business by 79 billion dollars, 101 billion on construction projects. In the environment, there is an unprecedented increase that all of us here must celebrate; an increase of 35% in actuality. Cumulatively, a wide range of interest notes is about 14.7 billion. It's a real amount of money I think everybody has. The entire council must celebrate. The government has registered NPA. We've reduced the payment of the elderly and the disability of dentists, raised the range of pensioners from $25,000. in 100,000, have major efforts in the development of nursing homes, increased home support for disability pensioners, increased maximum pay on maternity vacations. We have a well-finished climate - based strategy for reform in the treatment of sexual fractures. Less than 3 billion bucks. will be used to build infrastructures at tourist locations, with emphasis on land protection and peace-installed areas, etc. Despite what may be heard here at times, there have been good things and other very good things being done. We'd be better off if we accepted what's well done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u6	Mr. President. It must be said that, as it is, it is a little ironic that I come up after the last speaker because I was going to draw out exactly what is left of the six - month government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and it's a worsening medical system, twice the health system we're about to establish in Iceland. We saw Anna's open letter, a case that everyone knows. I want, with President's permission, to read up what Guðbjartsson Goddútsson, our chief expert at Land Hospital, says,Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: As a doctor at LSH, I can therefore try to see the lack of nerve doctors, e.g. when we need their advice after action. Also, I have witnessed the march of friends and family members who have tried to avoid a neuroscientist - a waiting waiting that often changes months. Something that is completely disturbing in a welfare community such as Iceland - and that in 2018. - The government's going to continue this. When doctors like Anna and Martin Ingi, who are among the best educated Icelandic doctors ever receive this welcome in Iceland, the danger is that they simply stopped moving to Iceland. Even so, they can choose full - time jobs worldwide. This decision - which is like a wet barrel in their face, but also in the face of us doctors here at home and the patients and their caregivers - is ridiculous and carry the prints of an incomprehensible brakraice. Health authorities don't pay much attention to a decision in Iceland. This is exactly the situation. Because of my opinion of Crevices, I'm not adding the patient's freedom of choice here. It is not about serving patients who are supposed to be the key to this, not how many Kingdom workers we can get a job. Rather, we should focus on the patient. Then we must seek all the ways, whether it is expert physicians or the land hospital we are to consult. We should look for it and build an environment in which the service to patients will become the best of them. As is true today of the Ministry of Health, there is no point in building a society that is for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u7	V.E.G. President. Despite the fact that much is going on here on the last days of the council, this morning we have a very important e - mail here from the Onbog children's organization. It is true that each child is precious. Hence, it was shocking to have this mail, which had the intention of having us here at the council to listen and handle matters. The treatment is not open yet to be opened. It was foretold to open within two weeks, but now we are informed that it should not be opened until September. The course of the participants has been during the recent years to close the urgent needs of treatment. It says that there are children who need help now, and it is important that we give it now. The reality is that we need to act now. I remind you of the highest word. Social and equal minister when he said, by permission of the president: It is important to lift up the discussion about children, since everything that has to do with children in the administration government is in perpetuation. This morning's e-mail is proof, so we need to act. We need to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u8	A respectable president. Yesterday, I asked the highest. Prime Minister to the financial secretary's reply to my inquiry about a tax report that came down into a drawer just before the 2016 elections. I asked if it was really true that Ministers don't have to follow ethical principles in the matters they take the initiative to do. The answer from the highest. The prime minister was very clear: No, that is not true. A direct quote to avoid putting some words into your mouth. By permission of the President: Of course, the code of ethics applies to all jobs at the highest level. Minister as well as any. Councilmen regardless of what they are supposed to be This should be known by everyone, the case involved. In April 2016, the government exploded because of the Panamas. These documents contained the name of the then - and - present minister of finance, who maintained his office despite everything. Despite his connection with the matter, the minister of finance took the matter into consideration of the council on his own and had a report on the scope of the property of the Icelanders in the tax industry. As interesting as the content of the report is, and as necessary as it is to continue the study that was started there, it is also very important to review the reporting process, how the minister of finance hid the report beyond elections because he did not want it in an election alliance, how the minister of finance failed his duties to the general public. A respectable president. Dear senators. The Minister's Accountability Act is clear. ▪ If the matter is grown, a minister may demand responsibility according to what is stated more closely in these laws for any work or neglect, when he is guilty of it, that he has either deliberately or is a great laxity in conflict with the republic's constitution, other national law, or otherwise established the interests of the State. I believe financial ministers have deliberately neglected their work and thereby violated the law. Reasons for this are available to all who want to know about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to talk about something that afflicts the government's greater part, that's called forgetfulness. My only bill at the council was to stop taxing and reduce drug strength, for microsurgents involved in the cost of care, drug costs, pay for hearing tools, rent rents that fall out of the rent, stay at home and in-houses, power costs for use of oxygen, paralysis or reduced mobility of walking cells caused by illness or disability, shortness of breath due to heart and lung disease, another comparable. It is permitted to pay sensibilities and disability pensioners for disability, monthly replacements for car - related costs. The need for a car to drive because of motor impairment is required and is shown to be unable to survive without supplementation. For older citizens, there is medicine and medical expenses, home care, home care, home - to - house stay, electrical use of oxygen, hearing equipment, rent that falls outside the rent. These payments are usually dependent on certain conditions, e.g. In terms of the income of a pensioner, a living in Iceland, a home situation, and a home environment. This government and previous governments will always forget micromanage. Men promise and promise before the election, but as soon as the election's over, they forget. They're totally forgetting. Desperate and older citizens will never be allowed to experience repetitive increases. Never. Never got back on time. Everyone else is getting back-ups. All employees and others experience increases according to the pay sheet. What do they do with disability? We're raised according to a consumer calculus. No respect. Then you will also miss a question to the highest level. Secretary of the budget, request a personal discount. Six weeks. No word. No excuse. Nothing. Don't ask for an extension. Six weeks. I think there's some serious forgetfulness going on with this government and it needs to take a class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u10	A respectable president. What a pleasure it is to enter a pita and give my first speech in the Council as the youngest member of Iceland! So I'm going to turn my talk to university education and give special consideration to the University of Akureyri. The fact is that attendance at the University of Akureyri has increased tremendously and is therefore thanks to a flexible study involving all the people of the country, making school easier and more efficient for those living in the country. A total of 2,074 students are studying HA, of which 69% are students for flexible study. What is even more important than the great news of a record-breaking application at the University of Akureyri is more information on the importance of industry and technical education, and hopefully most of us will agree that we need to increase the level of education at all levels. In particular, I think it will be most useful with better production of industrial and technical education at an earlier level of elementary school. This can especially help young children to increase their interest in such studies and to become more important in the community. While the university in Akureyri is going to contribute to this, it is scheduled to offer a technical study in the school policy file until 2020. It is noted that there should be a higher level of education available to a higher group of students, which takes into account the needs of businesses where there is a shortage of students in industrial and technical studies. Recently, numbers of those who complete their ministerial tests have decreased by 35% in the past few years. It is also worth pointing out that cooperation between the University of Akureyri and the Academy of Education in Akureyri will hopefully open up new opportunities for school cooperation if things go well and technology becomes a reality that all is about to turn out to be a reality. It makes industry and technology much more accessible to the public that the whole country needs in these times. Therefore, it is urgent that the State is behind the school with funds that enables it to fulfill its important role. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u11	A respectable president. This morning it was reported that the boat factory in Kópavogi had decided to shut down its work in the country, quit all employees, and move the production out of the country. This is the unacceptable gang of the crown and the unacceptable working conditions here at home. Recently, we have heard reports of the reports of tens of employees at Odda's office due to the domestic production of an inconsistency for import and are no longer able to resist the conversion due to the crown's position. There are countless examples of the challenges that foreign life now faces because of the crown's position. This is not limited to a fishing road. The discussion of the problems of tourism has also increased rapidly, and we see that it is slowing down as well as in most of the exports of this country. Yesterday a report on the future of the Icelandic money policy was introduced that suggested a fourth or fifth attempt to an independent money policy with a dollar. All the others have failed. I think it's very important that we in this room take our report carefully. In 2012, the Secret Bank returned over a 600 - page report on Iceland's options on money matters that the Parliament had little or no discussion with them and took no sides. This report cannot be covered too. It is a major problem that was not to be discussed with the other sort of and real choice for the recording of another coin. It was to be considered only on the basis of the Icelandic crown. However, the report is a difficult document and a fine review of the costs and flaws of the crown and the options we face. But I don't think we should deliver this report, like the Secret Bank's report of silence alone. [[The president calls.]] This time the Senate must take a stand on her and have the courage to discuss all our options for money, including other coins.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u12	A respectable president. There's good reason to wish a new one. A senator, Karl Liljendalur, son of Hólmgeirsson, congratulations on the virgin talk. She looked great, like that young and handsome man here. I'm also going to talk about school. A deaf boy in the city of Rhines, who got fresh in spring, will not be able to attend school next fall. He has studied Holta School from grade 1 with a small study course. In his early head, he was able to choose one new textbook. He doesn't know English. Now, there is no sign - language teacher available at school. The boy's mother has been meeting with a principal and a representative of the town of Smokenes, and their conclusion was that it was best to send the boy to a gang school in Reykjavík. When they contacted the Hostage School, it was found that the boy did not fit into their model, and it would be best for him to complete his schooling in a community where there is no teacher. The lack of energy had a contact with the Deaf's communication center and suggested that she handles a small school for deaf children, perhaps five to eight children between eight and nine years of age. There are professionals and skilled teachers. There are people who make up the study material and who are the best at heart. The idea was well accepted, but they are not in place, and of course they have to go through the Ministry of Education and the County Fund contributes money. But more is needed. The fact is that the school system and we here at the council have failed this group of children. They are unschooled, readable, and socially isolated in their schools. Many of them do not understand Icelandic and cannot read television or books. As it is today, a newly traveled boy in the city of Rhinestown will not begin school during the winter of 2018 - 202019. Schools either do not want or cannot accept them. Despite the good intentions of a minister of education in these matters, there are still deaf children who do not know their parents'native language in Iceland. It's the shame of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u13	Mr. President. An article published in the reactor yesterday revealed that the camp loan fund has lent over 18 billion dollars. to 25 persons who are either employed for profit or who are in a position to turn to such a form. However, this was done on the basis of a regulations that only allows loans to nonprofit persons. This misuse in such a system creates a state that corresponds to the national grants of an enterprise in a form forbidden by the EEA Convention. According to IV. The EFTA Guideline on the restoration of non-statutory benefits for state support shows that ESAs have ordered Member States to restore all non-authorities of government support that do not comply with the requirements of the EEA Convention. It will be curious to see what the Contestance Board intends to do in the area where home fields, which have been given nearly half of all these loans, now plan to take stock and plan on interest. It is also surprising that the matter of the Substitution Fund at the council is mainly under the opinion of the welfare committee rather than of the Economic and Business Committee, in view of the fact that the Substitution Fund is and has in fact always been a primary financial institution. A report by the General Assembly on Camp Credits Fund says about fund management, with permission of presidents: The financial well - being of an apartment loan fund extended over loans for housing, and under the premise of risk management, he was expelled as an investment bank, financed by the publication of state-trusted bonds. The fund invested in bond and mortgage collections and made loan agreements with other financial institutions. He did not have the same demands for his own money, money, or education, or government experience as for other financial institutions. He did not bow down as they did. This is another questionable dilation. These comments have not been handled sufficiently. The apartment loan fund has reached a very high level of ice, or it's getting really fooled. I suggest that there will be a special matter at the council in the fall to take a look at the fund's activities in order to ensure the interest of its citizens, the normal business of the fund, and the purpose of adequate housing for all to be met. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to call attention to the problems of nursing homes. As people in this room know, every day from Iceland's Medical Insurance suffers a nursing home, which is a daily budget that is hardly sufficient for the budget expected in a claim to these institutions from the state. It contains a variety of services that are well - versed and that enables homes to provide a quality service that is truly beneficial. However, the funds have not been increasing in accordance with the requirements for the operation. Today, for example, a nutrition engineer is required to operate in all nursing homes, but according to my data, there are not enough nutritionists in this country to cover these positions. The nursing home has many who had to apply for this special provision and has not been made to comment on it in health insurance. A more serious issue is that the surgeon general has set up a plan for nursing homes, but the payments the nursing homes receive are out of harmony with the surgeon general's criteria, since health insurance does not rely on paying daily expenses in the way that the governor feels the need for the management. As we know, elderly ones in nursing homes today are weaker than they were a few years ago. The metal party is gaining weight. The need for increased husbandship and the increased level of professional education is increasing, consistent with the requirements for the work. It is in the government covenant to improve the management of nursing homes. A new contract was made this week, the pay was updated. But these standards are not fully met, but I hope they do. I encourage health and financial ministers to keep those big words and to do it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u15	Mr. President. During the final days of the council, we are still talking about the ocean's resources, Iceland's resources, with deep emotion; a fundamental issue of enormous interest for the nation for a longer and shorter time. We're in a fight, even if that's true. There's a lot at stake, huge financial interests. As most often, it is the resources in the ocean, how we employ them, who may and may use them, this resource, and what the owner's terms of being modest, because it's the nation that owns this resource. It is only since then that during the first days of my non - many reign, I listened to a speaker from this chair telling me that the nation had nothing to do with it; the fishing work was to him; they would have full leave; it would be theirs. Voices like these are no longer loud, but they are not completely silent. That is why it is so urgent that we take seriously a discussion of a new constitution, some of which is the declared will of the present government, which, although it is not so bad, has worked well, but in some ways it can be addressed. That's not enough. We have a new constitution ready, the Constitution of the people. And there are also many who consider the fishing system, which has killed many urban areas, just fine, almost perfect. Mr. President, I'm afraid there's a domino effect on the General Assembly. We're dealing with the change of fish fees law. Ladies and gentlemen in the butts, men and women, would not rate us high, would it not be the same group at work at this task? There is no disagreement that we need to ensure a well - equipped, small and medium - sized platform for management. At that note began this journey, reducing further compression, building trust. Let's do it. But like the fairy tale, there seems to be a wolf in sheep's clothing. Nice senators. Let's get a move on and make the adventure a success.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u16	A respectable president. The Council is scheduled for 2nd. The so - called wave debate, which has happened somewhat in the community recently. The wave speech has certainly taken us and those here on a journey that I didn't expect, and it wouldn't have been possible a while ago. We have received assistance from the world's most skilled experts and experts who have the best knowledge of technology on a global scale. So I have to say that the current bill in that movie with the absurd changes makes me very sad. What's happening is something I can so good as to say we're going to chew on the backs of our hands for years to come. The other day, I spoke to an English cancer doctor in the front row. He is also a professor in the United States. He said, "Sara, I can't help but promise you that every smoker could be taken to a wave could be reduced the incidence of cancer so marvelous that we just wouldn't know where we were from. Praised, he said. This is a man who handles his words with caution. - I'm running out of time. I've got a lot under. I reasoned that this is a scientific community that makes decisions for the lives and health of a nation based on the latest scientific facts. I can't say that it is after observing this discussion. What about the children? In addition to the illogical and illogical nature of expressing their concerns in this way, the book of Retosia has been very prominent. [[The president calls.]] Any concern that has been dealt with this particular case is easily solved, as is the case with many other cases. What about the children? Yes, what about children who are less likely to lose their parents because of tobacco - related diseases, what about them? [[The president calls.]] Finally, I want to thank you for the number of e-mails that have come from people who object to what is going to happen today in the wave business. I urge people to come up to the Senate today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u17	Mr. President. There's good reason to thank you. paritaprevir That's the Signý of Kristjánsdóttir for yesterday's inquiry to the Transporter on the construction status of the Gufudal Corps. No answers were the highest. Such encouraging words were given by the secretary of transportation. In his case, he stated that this issue will continue to be checked out in the administrative department for the next time, so to speak. It is possible at some point in 2019, in the summer or in the fall, that roads could begin. This is pure contrast, a case that has been chosen by the administration for 20 years will continue to exist. I'm going to mention this here at the council's work because this council has been distributed to several members of the Northwestern Parliament. The members of the council, the son of Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, the Halla of Sigllar, the Signý of Kristjánsdóttir, the Guðjón of Zignon, the S. of Brjánsson, the son of Bergþór, the Ólason of Opa, and the conquerors Sigurður Páll the Jónsson of John. It is certainly disappointing, already possibly at the end of action these days, that the matter has not been discussed, has not been discussed, has not been discussed, and has not been discussed in this room. The global interests below which are enormous. They show that the management board has failed perfectly in this case for 20 years. It's a disappointment if the Council is going to follow in the same direction that the government has done. But I believe that this matter can be taken immediately during a new assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. There is no default in this world. The synopsis presented here was much smaller when it entered the council. However, there were all members of Congress who were also associated with those in this assembly. But it's not likely that this sort of thing will work all the way. This is a future, definitely, and I like the execution of the council. The Senate takes the step further than I assumed when I proposed the synonym. Thank you very much for the steps in the future. It's going to be really interesting to watch the projects that come from the carpenters and what they do for Iceland and the Icelandic economy. Icelandic society will be very exciting in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u19	Mr. President. I wanted to come up here and celebrate the solidarity achieved at the council on this proposal. As we came into our discussion yesterday, I think it is quite a turning point, even though there is little to it. It will be exciting to see what the future will be like with this suggestion. Just congratulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u20	President. When I suggested 12 years ago that we try to start the first such carpenter out in the Western Islands, I didn't expect it ever to go far. I would like to thank the council for making such a big welcome welcome for the future and actually extending this idea much longer than was proposed in the Senate arrangement originally proposed. This shows that we may be more ready, but we have often felt that we are dealing with something truly big. I appreciate everyone's payment on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u21	No matter the 4th mg. 10 g. Congress, for the duration of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Do they want a vote on the President's proposal? If not, she's approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u22	A respectable president. Child welfare issues in Iceland have been out of control for some time. For these reasons, the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities announced that a full reexamination of child protection and child protection services in Iceland is up to date. In an announcement from the Ministry of Health, February 23rd. published by Jehovah's Witnesses. It says, by permission of the President: The resulting follow-up of all the child - welfare work in the country will be reviewed and will be re-examined in the full reexamination of the child protection laws. There will then be a clear standard for government communication that plays a role in child protection. The objective is to promote and develop child protection in the country and strengthen the administration of the seminary. [...] Part of these projects will be given to a new quality and monitoring agency that will operate within the Ministry of Health in the next few weeks. It says that the bill for Children's Protection Programme is established, but now, over three months later, there is no sign of that bill. Likewise, I find it difficult to see that the above - mentioned quality and monitoring agency has begun work. This full reexamination of child - welfare laws is of utmost importance, but it is important that children's rights be handled, and it is important who is selected for the task. V.E.G. A minister decided that Bragi Guðbrandsson, director of the Children's Protection Agency, should lead the review. Since then, much water has flowed to the sea, and there have been a number of problems with the leading director of the Children's Protection Agency, which raises very serious questions as to whether he is the best candidate for this project. I refer to the conference's discussions and welfare committees on certain child protection matters that revealed that Bragi Guðbrandsson had been influenced by these child welfare issues and that a minister was directed to him on this matter. This was a particularly delicate subject, and it raises very serious questions if such a person is given such a responsible role. February 23rd. The government adopted the social and equal minister's proposal that Bragi Guðbrandsson be the candidate for Iceland's adoption to the United Nations Children's Committee. It should be noted that the supply has the support of the other northern countries. The United Nations Child Welfare Committee is the world's highest institution in the realm of child protection. All Member States of the Children's Convention submit a report every five years that explains the steps taken to fulfill the children's covenant and how it has been undertaken. The Child's Committee then gives an opinion on the work of the Member States, and it's to be published in public by local countries. It is clear, therefore, that the committee and all its members must be completely cast aside from any doubt of proper and undefiled careers. I would like to give special attention to the importance of child protection above any doubt. Children should always enjoy the doubt. The current review of child protection has to be done in a way that ensures that the result will be most effective for children who need to use the system. The system must be designed to make the most of the money. Today's an emergency call for backup. Today, only two long-term care measures are used for children with an emergency. This is because of lack of capitality, lack of man's means, lack of initiative. So, what happens after the big reexamination and suggestions are made? Great ideas, maybe, but we don't have money. How important is it to us as a community that our children are cared for? A respectable president. In view of what I have mentioned here, I would like to direct a few questions to a minister. 1st What is being done to ensure that the conclusion of the overall review will be the best for users of the service, children? 2. What is the safety profile of the Ministry of Health, Child Welfare and Child Welfare Committees in Iceland, and there are consistent protocols on the management of personal information in these institutions? Is there any independent surveillance on the treatment of personal information in this delicate group of subjects? 3. What will Iceland's main focus be within the United Nations Child rights Committee if Iceland's representative gets in there? Has there been a policy on the involvement of Iceland with the Committee, and if so, when will they introduce Congress and nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir's daughter, Thord, for a discussion that is truly important. Children's issues and child welfare are always extremely important. You can't take the matter very deep in a five - minute talk, but I'm going to try to introduce the three points. A senator specifically pointed to me for answers. First, what is involved in a review of child protection law. We've started a lot of hard work that aims to reexamine the child protection laws and children's affairs from all sides. Among other things, cooperation between three Ministers and the European Union is aimed at promoting increased cooperation that aims to break down walls and place children in foregrounds and create a real child-friendly community. We formally started this work with a large conference held on May 8, which was basically a work meeting where 3,350,400 people from the sector met and spent a day at work meetings and seminars to discuss the key elements that need to become a child - welfare worker in Iceland. The results of that work meeting are now being summed up and entered into the work ahead. Then, too, there is a review of critical cases in early intervention of children. Bragi Guðbrandsson has this project on his own, and it is scheduled for the next fall. The Children's Protection Programme has been set up until 2030. It's a mapping job that the company Expandectus does, along with the members of the Ministry of Health, the Children's Health Professional Services Department, the University of Iceland, the welfare field of Reykjavík, the Children's Health and the Union. It is expected that they will also be completed in the fall. Hv. A senator spoke of this review by a manager, but recently a formal project manager was appointed for the future work. Her name is Erna Kristín Blöndal and has been appointed project manager for one year to work out a full reexamination of child protection and children's issues. She has good experience in working across all classes because she worked with the committee in her day, who wrote the new law of foreigners. As a result, hopefully over the next few weeks, the plan is to request references to a transnational group, including all classes, in order to process all the items we are currently gathering, and to make room for child protection, from Apectus, from the conference, from the report of the new quality and observation agency. She has been assigned to review all the communication practices within the child - welfare clinics and child welfare committees and to assess how to create them and how to communicate. All that work will be done the next fall, and it will go into the work that lies ahead. My mind is that a transliterian group will accept this and work for the next winter to achieve a full - scale change in child protection, which may be able to see for the next spring if everything goes according to plan. That was the first question. Then there's the security of the Ministry of Health, Children's Health and Child Welfare Services. The SECS data security is such that the Council's Management Board's Management Board received two years ago a witness from the British Standards Institution that the Society had introduced a system of information security that meets all key conditions for storage data. It was a lot of work to be done in terms of information safety and major steps when the Society received the witness. The witness is for three years. The annual assessment of the business situation by BSI was recently performed, and the network passed without comment. Of course, the safety of personal information is a key factor in both the older and the new personal protection laws, so all of them will be intensified in the near future. For Children's Health Services and Child Welfare Committees, it is so with the Children's Protection Agency that data security and document management are being heard under the National Library of Iceland, or the 2014 Public Library Act so that it is not supported by the Management Board. For child protection committees it is established in the child protection code how to store data and information there. But I think this is clearly one thing that we need to consider in the processing of the child protection laws, not perhaps how the information is stored, but what information we want to share and share in matters that are relevant to child protection. There is something that we need to consider. The third question involves the emphasis of Iceland's child - rights committee within the United Nations Children's Committee. I'll have to come in later because I'm done with my time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u24	A respectable president. I appreciate the voter for starting this discussion. We love nothing more than our children and grandchildren and their well - being, that they flourish and enjoy fine conduct all the time. Sometimes, though, life takes a course that no one wishes for and nobody wants, experiences or circumstances that arise, where parents and families lose control of their own circumstances, circumstances that they rather want to get out of, and do not have a conscious choice, need help and support to identify the nature of problems and solutions. Part of the problem can be spiritual distress, sickness, and inadequacy that hinder a child's normal upbringing. It is vital, therefore, that our children have sound warnings, shelter, and sponsorship in the community at all levels, and we believe that this is true even if we do find that there is a lack. Basic child - welfare services are conducted by politically appointed Child Welfare Committees, which have a variety of additional support options based on events. The circumstances arise, unfortunately, that parents need to seek the attention of the businessman on difficult matters, e.g. to resolve differences in relationships with one's own children. Those who find themselves in such situations complain very much about the length of such cases. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is it not possible to shorten this period, and how does he foresee that it can be done? A respectable president. Children's protection is a particularly delicate and challenging class, and it is never simply a matter of being cautious and considerate in a public discussion. Illustrating work, trust, and professionalism are key factors and need unquestionably to be above all doubt. However, in small rural areas where personal matters are very close, objective treatments may be difficult. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister if he believes that there is a reason to examine child - welfare committees with enlargement and professional growth and cohesion, e.g. ... thefunningfun. [[The president calls.]] Could this lead to child protection?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and a chief. Minister for this coverage today. Of course, child - care issues are the most difficult things to do, which often make it harder for individuals to defend themselves and to understand situations in which the circumstances are often both difficult and not complicated. I am very happy with the leadership of the government and the emphasis of the government covenant, which puts special emphasis on strengthening the position of those who are in their feet, and especially on the status of children who live in poverty. Children must always be placed in the foregrounds when the whole system is checked and organized into a society where their rights are being upheld. We need to make sure that they are primarily equal to our opportunities, and since children are not affected, we especially need to meet them. At the same time, when personal, sensitive topics are discussed, they need to be fully protected from personal matters. We are to have even greater demands on the subject of children. The information safety witness is a satisfying step and an important end to the key element in protecting personal information. There is also special care in new personal protection laws, and because of this, there will be a whole set of procedures around these matters, such as other cases, especially in consultations or reviews. Hopefully next week, we'll be able to take care of the new personal protection laws that will further ensure the protection of sensitive personal information. Our social network must always have children in its top priority, and I am glad that it will be a universal review of the system to children whose goal is to put children in the lead in all approaches and to ensure good service. With this review, hopefully we can both make the money better for the children, make the system more uniform, for which there may be a little lack of overall vision. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to hearing from more speakers and ministers about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u26	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor and the highest. Minister, too. When discussing child protection, it is important to bear in mind that this is probably the legal case that we are to address here at the General Assembly. I spoke this morning in the council's e - mails received from the Onbog children's organization. I mention it again to shed light on how serious the situation is, as well as to remind that children's issues should be put in first place and that it is ours to make sure that so. I'm now happy to have at last a quality and surveillance agency holding hands on social services and child protection, but I'm going to allow myself to be somewhat concerned about whether it will be enough to put trust in someone I think is broken. It still lacks adequate resources and solutions, and there have been some communication problems. To that end, we have even. witness to the welfare committee. A report by the 2015 State Review Council pointed out that the need for a treatment offer has to be ensured, and the Ministry is making sure that it becomes a reality. Another indication that I find very important in the State Review report a few years ago was that the Ministry needed to respond to access to such services not only by children's quarters. Finally, I ask, what's the situation today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u27	A respectable president. I thank the advisor and the highest. Minister for bringing up the subject. As noted by other speakers, children's rights are the most delicate and confidential and nonviolent issues, perhaps one of the most important things in this regard, and I agree with the proponents on the matter of having it guaranteed. I'd like to mention two or three things that I think are important. A minister has said that work has already begun at the Ministry to review these lawsuits, and it's a good thing. In this regard, I'd like to say two things. I think it's very important that at work it's about to start, all persons involved will come to the case, including those who might at some point in their lives, have been what we would call the users of the child protection system, because the viewpoint of the individual must be important in this regard. I would like to strongly encourage the Minister to look to this. Then I also feel that the law code on the Children's Institute of Child Welfare, as it is now, has to be revised. I think it is, and I have said it before, the legal rights of the Children's Institutes, as they appear in the law today, more than there is a reason, and I believe that some part of the discussion that took place earlier in the winter on these matters. That is to do so, since things in general are being revised to them today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u28	A respectable president. I thank Thorhldur Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir for starting a discussion on these matters and the highest. Minister for reply. I want to talk about the matter on a different basis, by talking about the rights of disabled children. Clotheed children have the right to education and disabled persons to have access to a system of education that is without any separation and that offers learning through life. People who are trained have the right to support their individual needs, which ensures that they will achieve maximum results in education and social development. Teaching should only include persons with special expertise in disabled, unorthodox, communal, and other special teaching methods in order to meet the needs of disabled students. This is not being carried out today. We are always hearing of the fact that the rights of disabled people are being violated for study. It seems that no matter what is done, the laws and rules that should protect the children are not followed. This also applies to long-term children, severe developmental abnormalities, and behavioural problems. What is strange also in this context is that if we take examples of hyperactivity, attention deficit, and oppositional disorder, which can be very bad for the parent, it is grade five, which means zero. That means zero at Insurance. Those parents do not receive help. This tells us that we are still very back on these issues. I say if we can't get it right, there's something wrong with us because they're individuals and parents who need help, and these are people who can't protect themselves. We are under obligation to arrange for them to receive education and other appropriate services.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u29	President. Thank you for this important discussion and the highest. Minister for his answers. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to express special satisfaction with the emphasis the Minister has placed on this important matter party and reviewing its legal environment and the work that has already been started. I think it's very important and commendable by the Minister. It is extremely important to control this group, and it clearly shows itself in the conflicts that have existed between child - welfare committees and the Children's Institutes of Child Protection in recent years and the confidentialities involved. It is a very serious situation upstairs, and it is very important that all of it is paid, both by legal review and by providing surveillance for child protection in a clearer frame, and that my awareness of the role of the Children's Protection Agency, which is extremely important and of great expertise there, and then again the monitoring of child protection in general, including both the work of the Children's Health Committee and the Children's Health Organization. I think that has already laid the groundwork for a particular action and would be interesting to hear from a minister where that work is, i.e. Regarding the movement of the monitoring that has been repeatedly suggested that it was important to move from the Children's Institute to independent parties and to transfer to a special government monitoring agency that is expected to be implemented. Nevertheless, I have to describe a certain disappointment by saying that the issues raised during the winter that were referred to the Ministry were not better eliminated, including by publishing to the Child Protection Committees involved in the review of the Ministry, but I trust that the current minister - minister work and prime minister's assessment of this investigation will hopefully carry clothing on the weapons sharpened there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u30	President. Let's start with the right place. Our children are our future, our greatest value in society. Their physical and spiritual health is a common responsibility for all of us, and it is particularly responsible for a minister who has appointed the Commission and our members as members of the council with the responsibility to ensure the well - being of children. Children's physical and spiritual health should always be first of all, never to suffer the lack of financial resources. A minister does not have the right to ignore sick children, reasoning that there is no money. That's not an option. I have information that six or seven children are dealing with severe difficulties and desperately need help but are not receiving it. They could have been helped if resources such as Highholt were available or the clinic promised by the minister at the beginning of April to be opened in two weeks. The latest data suggest that there will be no alternative until autumn. This lack of ability makes it possible for children who have the most difficulty in saving their children in support of support and support of their children's wishes and activities among other children with whom they have no concordance. The staff are also under great pressure, and many are about to give up on the situation. An emergency situation exists in the media, and we should respond with solutions no later than we should. The solution is not to put children in storage until they are 18 and to stop being a minister's problem, which seems to be the policy now. Is the money being saved by just ignoring the problem and waiting for it to disappear? It's a shame, and I insist that the options be opened immediately today and the children placed in a safe place where they will begin to help them. A minister should be able to afford to solve this problem. Why has this not been done? Why can't a minister's words be trusted? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u31	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Thorhlund Sunna Ævarsdóttir, take the initiative in this discussion and at the highest level. Social and equal minister answers. In a report on review of administrative and social services monitoring and child protection since May 2016, the President's permission includes: It is important to understand completely that surveillance and counselling [of child care]. This creates suspicion and conflict when the same person offers advice on how to handle options, how to process and how to manage them. Last month, QA and SEC began their social services and child protection activities. The Agency is primarily responsible for tasks in the management and monitoring of community services provided by rural partners and public institutions or on the basis of agreements. Among other things, the Agency should oversee the treatment homes of children's clinics. This depends on the above - mentioned indications to play a role in child - welfare committees to this new surveillance agency, but the Children's Health Organization still has its role to guide it. This is an important step in putting our trust in the role of the Children's Protection Agency as a professional institution and may prevent differences from developing in relationships that interfere with the important role that the Agency plays. Only personal protection. Of course, the responsibility of a community is to introduce requirements in new personal protection laws in all areas. A lot of central work, however, has been done through the Icelandic community, where both lawyers and a group work for personal protection. This is important. In these groups, communities have been working on data such as security policy and processing files and sharing documents among themselves. At the same time, the relationship has provided guidelines for the steps in which rural society needs to take and be highly educated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u32	Mr. President. Few associations are more important than the well - being of children and are necessary for all child care and child care outside. Sadly, today's situation is that the pressures on children's protection are too great and often inhuman stress on staff of Children's Health. Because of this great stress, there is little time for early intervention and prophylaxis. It is good to hear that revision has begun because the system has just exploded. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. Ministers and rural communities to pay particular attention to the work of social advisers and even place a set set set number of cases on each social adviser. It is also important to consider improving resources so that they can be used before the situation is too late. In this context, I would like to mention two interesting projects in which early intervention and prevention are being carried out, the Eastern model of rural areas in the East. The project is designed to improve the cooperation of professionals, schools, health care, and social services and to provide more specific counseling and management on individual students and families. In this way, children and parents can be added to the cooperation of professional people on issues related to the well - being and academic education of preschoolers. It highlights early intervention, which in time is much less expensive and may reduce the risk of harmful effects on the development of the child. The school in Kópavogi has been able to recruit social workers in school to serve as social workers, including in cross-cutting tubes, e.g. with coaches, psychologists, and, of course, teachers, it's possible to do some preemptive work inside the schools as a relief to children's protection. More schools have gone that way, forming the Hull School in Hafnarfjörður. It would be very interesting to have the highest perspective. A minister to see if he can support these and other similar projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u33	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion here. It is urgent, and therefore the affairs of children are under way in the government covenant of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. It emphasizes the need to strengthen the position of those whose foot is on hand and specifically mention the status of children who live in poverty. Children must be put first in a child-friendly society and the management board must be integrated into the whole approach. We want to ensure early intervention and continuous service. That's the objective of the government and the highest. Minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason. A verbal vendetta is interested in the safety of the Ministry of Health, as shown in the senator's speech. Information spills and data loss are one of the greatest threats public agencies have to face. Therefore, it is important to protect the information regarding the Ministry and the communication with customers. When it comes to confidentiality or the treatment of confidentiality, piracy has not been successful. The treatment of the head of the welfare committee in the matter of a family adopted on a welfare committee provides an example of the unwary handling of the e - mails of members of the committee and even confidentiality. An E - mail sent to the chairman of the Committee, and members of the committee immediately appear during the moment, which was published in that magazine. A lawyer to help prevent the head of the committee from discussing a particularly personal matter at an open meeting on a welfare committee. The chairman had the case far beyond the normal limit, since the role of the Committee is that of child - welfare administration, not of unique matters, as the Chairman's will was. A respectable president. The involvement of Pirata and the moment that leaked personal information on delicate matters is a concern for the General. It is a requirement for us senators to remain confidential in our work, and it is never more important to maintain our faith than when it comes to the delicate affairs of children and their families.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The advisor for the discussion and the highest. Minister for participating in it. The first and foremost duties of the child - welfare authorities turn to their clients, i.e. The children themselves. Their right and well - being must be immediate, since child - welfare authorities usually present themselves at very difficult and delicate times or at times in the lives of children and their families. They must be sure that their children's interests are trusted and that there will be a solid basis for trust between members of their children on the land. Respect well - being, and it is clear that a minister has plans to revise laws and regulations that have to do with this party. This is well done because there is no trust today between parties and institutions that are responsible for the national child protection. At the same time, there is no trust in the trade unions. It is clear that the public of the country does not trust the child - welfare authorities, as is now the case. This group of paintings and the answer have been given to the highest degree. The prime minister was putting together a group to review the short - term communication that has been there. Soon we will see the product of that group, but of course I do not have a special consideration of the way the Minister dealt with the council during the past few weeks and months. It is very important that such communication be made clear and necessary to establish whether a minister has given correct information to the Council in these last weeks and months and whether he has told the whole truth to the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u35	Mr. President. This is an important discussion of important matters, and as is so often during a special discussion here at the council, I feel that there are points and points from different directions that I think are important to the party. I'd like to mention especially that as a dog. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson mentioned the matter of remembering that some children are disabled, not to be forgotten. Then I thought it was a point of view. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson mentioned, the suggestion that those who have experience in the child protection system will be drawn at the table in reexamination of law, an extremely interesting introduction. I think it can be very beneficial and of the highest degree. A minister to consider, examine, and take action. I think it's important that we remember that the children who need the child protection system are extremely different and cross-changed. We must always make sure that their children differ greatly, and their needs differ from that. Because we're now talking a lot about personal protection and the protection laws, I'm fine with the highest. The minister reviewed the situation in terms of the members as management with information related to children. I'd also like to say, though, that it is extremely important to think specifically of children when it comes to personal protection and to remember that it is not just collecting information about them but that it is also important to children and their language because the information is transmitted between right parties. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So it's not just about collecting data, it's about the right sharing in the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u36	A respectable president. In my second speech, I will talk about the strange thing about violence to fathers during divorce. It is not natural that at the time of parental divorce, the women usually get the right to their children and that the situation today is that fathers have virtually no chance in this struggle. I'm asking a minister, does he think it's normal? Do you feel that it is only natural for over 90% of children to get divorced? I'd like to point out that 3rd. of the United Nations Children's Covenant, with the permission of a president, put it a word: ▪ All decisions or measures made by the competent authorities should be based on the best interests of children. The Agency and the paediatric services to meet the safety, health protection, number, staff and management requirements - what is best for the children. Is it best for the children to avoid associating with their fathers, grandparents of the second generation? That is what I would say is pure violence, a violation of the covenant, and a crime against children. Second, I want to point to 12. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ Children have the right to express their views on all matters pertaining to them and to taking their thoughts into account in line with their age and development. Children should be given the opportunity to comment on their own issues in court or administration. This right belongs to the children. They have the right to associate with both parents, not just other ones. We need to make sure that it is that way, not just in word, but on table. It's not comfortable for fathers to always follow through on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u37	Mr. President. I thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place, and I rejoice in the fine progress of some of these matters, which seem to get mixed up in the right direction with the highest words. Minister to judge. Yet, I must express my disappointments by doing so. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson wastes such an important discussion in a personal mess with members of Congress, as it were. I think the discussion deserves better. [[Up front.]] I appreciate the discussion, but the prices at the end... - I've been, what. Senator. [[Up front.]] That's mine, isn't it, President? I'll be at the end of the discussion, though, discussing matters that are now being done by the former Child Welfare Director, the current social and equal minister, Bragi Guðbrandsson. Now I know that the so - called independent report by experts was designed to analyze this point along with others, but it was supposed to report it yesterday and the council is about to complete. I think it's important to have the highest position. A minister to that matter before the council ends. I'm not going to talk about this unique child protection thing, but I think it's important to get to the top. A minister responds to the following question, which in general attracts the rights of children and child - welfare administration: Ministers to the behavior of the director of the Children's Institute of Child Protection, who was involved in a single child protection without considering whether a painter might have violated the child involved, conformed to child law, child protection law, and the child - rights of the United Nations? These are important questions, and they involve not only this particular matter but also the general protection of children and the position of a minister who is taking child protection in Iceland's government to the rights of children and the fundamental requirement that children be left to the doubt at all times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u38	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this fine discussion and for the many excellent suggestions that have been made. I have a problem because I have only two minutes and I don't know how to answer all of this in such a short time. First of all, what I didn't get to say in my first speech on what would be the key focus of Iceland within the United Nations Children's Court of Childhood if an Iceland representative got in there. To me it's even Children's right to protect themselves from physical, mental, and neglect anywhere, whether at home, at school, in other organized jobs or elsewhere, to the right of children to live in security and peace free of violence and war, to children's right to education, especially girls, to be respected, to have sex relations guaranteed, and to avoid harmful practices, such as baby marriages. Special attention should be given to the child's rights in a delicate position, including based on disability, sexual orientation, sexuality, religion, and ethnic background. This is what I think is supposed to be the main focus of our party going in there. Then, for example, there were a number of other issues, as to the work of the Children's Health Committee, whether they should be bigger and more professional. I think there's clearly something we should look at and wait for a parapolitic committee to take sides. Then, with regard to the resources being proclaimed and established. Sadly, it took more time to secure what was needed. There is no more conflict with this than the one listed here, but it has been ensured that 80 million each year will go to this project that was not within the Department of Social Affairs. I hope it can go as fast as possible. A new quality and monitoring facility is already being taken into place in some of the monitoring activities. It will take further watch on child protection, and it needs to be corrected. On the other hand, I'd like to say at the end before I finish this because I just can't answer any more questions, I could talk here for half an hour, that we need a lot of changes in child protection. That's why I've thought that this first year we're getting data and information. [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to see a transverse committee take over the baton because I believe we'll make more radical changes if the system doesn't change itself, but the members of the council here. This is a parapolitic case. We should make some changes. There's not one group that's supposed to have it, we're all supposed to work on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u39	President. I come up here to go on record as a member of the Independence Party, Ásmundur Friðriksson, in a special discussion on child protection earlier today. There Ásmundur Friðriksson accused me of a serious violation of my work as the head of the health committee, of the trust and lack of data, of which I am completely innocent, which the senator knows well. This is not the first time he accuses me of such things, but independents well know that if they repeat the lie enough, some people will start to believe it. I completely reject Ásmundur's Friðriksson and the example of his words. The senator's charges have brought reproach on my work, on the committee, and on the work of the council. Then there are activities. paritaprevir Empresses Níelsson's son, of the Council of the Council of Allegiance, where he allowed a member of the Independence Party to have serious and gross indignities toward me. I was not so given an opportunity to answer for me, since a member of the Independence Party sitting in the President's chair repeatedly ignored my requests to appear in the conference board for my sake, looked right into my eyes, and then delayed a meeting instead of giving me the word. As far as I'm concerned, there was a member of the Independence Party who abused his stand as U.S. vice president to promote the insurrection þingmaður Ásmundur, the son of Fridrik, to me. [[The president calls.]] I expect this case to be treated appropriately on the Council's Presidency Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u40	Mr. President. I'm here recommending a commission on bill change of customs law, No. 88/2005, with subsequent changes (the developing world state). The commission is from the Economic and Business Committee. The committee discussed the matter and arranged for specialists from the Department of Economics and Economics to meet with them. In addition, there was talk of the case from the Society of Professionals and the Communication Prayer. The bill suggests a change in 1st mg. 7. August), No. 88/2005, according to the definitions of the United Nations (called LDC countries), to the toll free use of products in the most developed countries. According to 2 mg. 1st paragraph 1.mg. 7. Customs enjoy goods from these countries now the same tax benefits as products in the European Economic Areas. This change adds to the toll benefits and becomes products that fall under 97% toll numbers in the Annex I to customs against customs. The secretary must be allowed to set the rules on the origin of the import product using the Regulation. The committee received tips that it could be extended beyond the bill and that it would fully lower the tax on agricultural products from countries that are to be avoided by certain types of products that are linked to agriculture. On the other hand, there are differing opinions on this point. The Commission does not believe that there is a basis for changing the bill at this time, but it directs it to the Ministry that the tips on this subject will be taken into consideration. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, supports this opinion. For this matter, Óli Kárason, the son of K., the daughter of Bordid, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, the Þorsteinn the Víglundsson of Wazlund, Brabbur the Brynjar of Ásgerður, Björn the Þór of Gunnarsson, the son of Gunnarsson the son of Gunnán, the daughter of Oddný G.. The Harðardóttir of Hurfur, and Sigmundur the Gylfadóttir of Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u41	Mr. President. In common, many countries have a relatively large part of the economy, but economic barriers in developed countries make it difficult for them to export agricultural products. The two - sided arrangement, now dominant in international transactions, weakens their standing for treaties. Developed countries are less likely to negotiate with and how much they indulge in political delicateities. Two - side business negotiations put extra stress on the administration of each State, as the discussion increases, becoming more complex, and demanding follow-up. The management board of many developing countries may find it difficult to perform more such operations at once. Then there are two majors in two-sided vacation agreements compared with a wide variety of sides. They are misleading and lack of harmony. It is a business exchange that describes a position where unfashionable business takes place as a result of a free trade agreement. A state that is best equipped to export a particular product to another state will not benefit from its competitiveness as a result of a free trade between the state and the Third Reich. The result will be that the inhabitants of the state that imports the goods from the land where it has a free trade agreement with paying a higher price for it. And the country that doesn't have a bargain can't move the product over its heads. Lack of harmony is defined as a misappreciative agreement on environmental protection, rights, and the quality of working people and government grants, to name something. When international relations are characterized by a great deal of free trade agreements between countries and states, there is a lack of harmony in the rules and requirements of the free store. The highest advantage of two-sided vacation agreements compared with multi-sided is efficiency, but it is easier to agree when the number of parties is smaller. The extent of the contract depends on them each time. The arrangement allows countries to highlight negotiations with their most important export market, allowing them to maintain political sensitive groups outside negotiations. Mr. President. We're here to increase focus on the free trade and use of export tools, improve foreign services, increase business services and interests in new business services for foreign services. These goals reflect a new global reality following the Doha cycle's station. The role of the foreign service is increasingly involved in paying the way for the access of international enterprises to foreign markets. It is reasonable that the State seeks to pursue its free trade policy largely outside the International Business Organization, if the Doha has not been successful, and there is no political wish to resume extensive multi-sided holiday negotiations. However, it is not to be overlooked that free trade agreements do not happen in a political vacuum. They may appear to be mostly technical, but their fruitage may be quite right, with all stakeholders involved in it. Far from being limited by the export of developing countries on agrienvironmental products to developed countries, only business inhibition by the latter is to be responsible. According to the European Economic and Development Institute, OECD, there is a national agricultural improvement in developing countries that would lead to the greatest benefits. There, we Icelanders can certainly take us through development cooperation. However, the conversion of the international trading system from extended to bi side of the Doha cycle has removed an important platform to promote significant improvements in the bioavailability of developing countries to the markets of developed countries. Other means of strengthening sustainability can be used within these poor countries than by the freedom of customs. This may include a debt surrender. Much progress has been made in reducing the burden of debt to the poorest countries, but much less is the promise of improved commerce and increased development aid. This is the result of a recent United Nations report. Many developing countries need to take more account of business and competitiveness in their developing programs to take advantage of business opportunities. Many of them would also need to eliminate taxes and to clean up the necessary medication and allow the use of concomitantly used medicinal products at a lower price. There is reason to be concerned that the benefits and effectiveness of such assistance may be difficult to assess because of the lack of clear information on this assistance. In fact, a debt to the poor is a theological concept. There is also a difference between the two of us. a written essay by Father Páll, Ágúst the Ólafsson of Ólaf. Following, I will introduce some interesting viewpoints presented in Páll's essay on this subject. 3, 5. The Bible book of Genesis is a set of rules that can apply to the present time, as he sees the situation in the poor lands discussed here. Remuneration is often taken lightly, both by high - quality countries and by business banks. The ancient text of the Old Testament often appeals to delicate political issues in our time. How Would You Answer? According to the book of Genesis, with the permission of the president: ▪ Seven years, cancel your debt. According to these rules, cancel your debt: Any creditor will be canceled for a loan he has granted to his fellowman. He shall not go by payment of his neighbour and fellowlabourer, for the destruction of debt has been proclaimed for the Drottinn's sake. It also says that none of us should be poor. Theology's commentators agree that in the first century C.E. The book of Genesis refers to debts for which the poor, unbidden, made up of them. Some examples are mentioned among such individuals, e.g. for a farmer who needed money because of a lack of crops, to buy seed, or such, and for the people who had no money because of unemployment. The loan of such individuals was considered a humanitarian act rather than a business goal. Thus, the subscription to such a loan was a generosity or a copy that was a generous generosity rather than anything else. Rules five. The Genesis account of debts is evidence of how God intended that an equalizing would be achieved in the community. It is known that there were kings in Mesopotamia who canceled the debt of their nations, usually during their takeover, and sometimes again some years later. Similar activities were known by the Greeks. The wording is used every seventh year in Deuteronomy. The Bible book of These words are thought to be translated into writing on the debt at sunset on the last day of the seventh year. Dropping debt. Opinions have been made as to whether or not there is a command to temporarily cancel growth bonds or whether they have a total debt depreciation. Rather, it has been inclined that the wording contains a complete decapitation of debt. In general, this wording should be interpreted according to the words, i.e. that debt should be canceled or canceled. In addition, Deuteronomy says: "The earth is full of By permission of the president, the book of Genesis: ▪ Any creditor should be canceled for a loan he has lent to his neighbor. It seems that in spite of this expression, which, according to the words, sounds that all obligers should cancel all loans every seven years; yet, it was immediately or soon taken to the point of view that forms of debt did not reach all debts; for the Law was primarily intended for the benefit of the poor. This was the way it was quickly seen that the Law did not pay dues, loans from some kind of bail, and debts that had been set up for purchase of goods with the cities, to the demolition of debt, has been offered for the Drottinn's sake. This includes the message that the order to give up comes from the Drottinn, no one else. Of the explanations referred to here, it appears that decommissioning debt should have occurred every seven years and that all debts should be canceled completely. It seems that the rules were primarily to benefit the poor, so the rules began to be interpreted to mean that the breakdown would not go to all. The basis for this is that the Drottinn asks that debt be canceled, and it follows the Drottinn's promise that he will bless the one doing so. Mr. President. This is my quote to the Old Testament text and debt breakdowns to the poor of the nations, but I think it's probably true that Iceland and I are actively involved in cooperation with the International Business Agency, which is bent on promoting economic prosperity, sustainable and combating poverty. I'm all for this bill. However, there are conflicting issues to consider. A bill this has a very limited purpose if infrastructure in that country is not available for exporting. In this relationship, and I will make it my final words in this discussion, the relevant state must be self-sustained.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. This is a senator's business. When the Senate closes, it's a strange time. All of a sudden, I thought I was running till Sunday, at least I rarely heard as much talk about the book of Genesis as I went to Mass on that fine Lord's day, and as nice to think about debt and balance and other justices in historical context as I seek ideas that are widely held. This debate raises the question of what other legal arrangements he would like to make on sacred books, since I have rather come to realize that we are trying to separate human laws and human legislation from those that come to me in a religious book. It is now not spoken of by all too much respect for leaders who want to put the sharia-laws, for example, over their lands. Although I'm not giving it to the senator, I'd like to hear from him only if we were to expect that the book of Exodus and her sister will be used as evidence in other legal requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for such a positive and keen interest in my speech earlier. He speaks of legalization and theology in that subject. This was put primarily, this text, because I wanted to show that words of God can speak into so many situations in life, including this important matter that is to meet and help the neighbor in his distress and poverty. We are going over to the international community and its responsibility toward the poor people of the nations, and that is where we come to what I mentioned in my talk, that this is a command in the book of Deuteronomy. In the book of Genesis, we are to take care of our neighbor and meet him. It can be transferred to the nations. This was done during the time of the Mesopotamian Empire. That includes, as I mentioned earlier, the blessing that if you give up your debt in this way, you'll get the Lord's blessing instead. That's exactly what this is all about. I wasn't directly talking about the fact that we should transfer this to a legal system in a certain way, but this was primarily designed for thought, because the matter is important. We must always consider the ways in which we can go, including the amount of debt that we owe. Among other things, a United Nations report shows that this route is important to these nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u44	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his additional effort. True, there are many fables to seek inspirations, but I think we must always have a critical lens on what we read from this point of view. It was not Mesopotamia, but Hammurabi ruled at the same time, saying that we should pay an eye for an eye; a term that was a pen of penal law in many lands for centuries but that we have left behind. Similarly, the books of Moses are full of fine things that can surely be relied on when it comes to right conduct, but they are also as full of red - blooded ideas as stoning people to death for violating the Law, even though they are as commonplace as divorcing their marriage mate or what it is. Various things that are not relevant in modern society. I'll tell you the pleasure of hearing from the senator that there he has chosen what fits well into the present time and he is likely to realize that at some point in the next year's years, women's sexual freedom - we're also expecting a bill on the rights of the trans- and Intersex peoples - they're not as much to 5. In the Bible book of Genesis, there are moral laws that are closer to our time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. In answer to his meditation in these matters, a senator is delighted that he is well - versed in the Old Testament. I'm glad you're here. It is an extremely important part of life as we know it, so I thought it would be very good because we are discussing those less fortunate in the international community. I also wanted to introduce only what I specifically mentioned earlier, that there is a fundamental precept that the state we're talking about, the 47 states there are sustainable. As I mentioned earlier, the bill has a very limited purpose if the infrastructure in that country is not equipped to pay for the export that we are going to receive in as positively as we can. That's where we have the opportunity to assist these nations in agriculture, and so on. by doing it through... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u46	I narrowly beg men to give silence and silence in side halls, to stay somewhere else if they have to talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u47	What I'd like to say is that we have the way of developing cooperation. We can help these nations to be sustainable so that they can move out important products that will help to build the sustainableness of the countries. Thus, it is important that we accept this export in the most practical way possible for the national groups. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u48	Mr. President. I'm at the Committee of the Economic and Business Committee, and I'm delighted to hear it. It is happy that we are doing business with the poorest countries in the world, but we must, of course, be sure that this has taken a long time for us to do so. This is, in effect, the validation of the declarations that we first made in 2000; it has taken us nearly two decades to legalize it, and it might have been better if we had finished it earlier. I can agree with many of those things. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson came in, that perhaps we should approach this subject more as a development aid than standard vacation contracts. This is not exactly the same view here when we would like to negotiate a mutual access or something like that in standard vacation contracts. We are primarily trying to pay for the world's poorest business with a rich nation, and of course the commitment of Western countries is to try to promote the economy of the world's poorest nations, as defined individually. I cannot testify as brilliantly in the book of Genesis as it was. A senator, yet I thought of one thing from the Hagava, which is quite appropriate about this: You're better. low dose ritonavir, A tail's at home. Though two goats are not And the bramble chamber, But it is better than prayer. This may be what we're talking about, promoting the sustainability of these countries, promoting their own economy. True, it is. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's nests introduced that it is often the main threshold for the infrastructure at home, but it does not change the fact that it is cheap for us as a wealthy nation to eliminate customs for that state, and we do not necessarily have to let the same law apply to it as other vacation agreements. Therefore, I'm sorry to see that we have continued to have substantial toll inhibitions on agricultural products. I believe that we should easily be able to go further without it violating our basic stand in the trade with agricultural products in general. It is good to remember that our customs on agricultural products are generally somewhat high, they are high internationally. We have just the same information as the richest protection from import, and more often, these are the goods that these countries produce or have the potential to produce. In view of the fact that we have negligible business interests involved, however, they can be significant in the state, I agree with the advice of the Commission that the government will consider how to further help the business of the states by completing the customs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u49	A respectable president. I'm a little interested in the final words of which. Senator. I'd like to have a little chat with the senator about what I feel is a poverty trap, which involves offering to lower tolls one side of the worst, but not to leave e.g. It is similar with the way other nations have begun to drop customs from the second world. That is an incentive to stay at the bottom, to be the worst in the kingdom. In fact, this is in the best interests of not having to pay certain tolls, but if a state goes over a group that is beyond the worst situation in the United States, it is, at least, an incentive to get back from being the worst in the world. Then there will be a series of cycles in that category, and countries will recover to develop the economy. Of course, I also agree to the senator's challenge to eliminate all of this, it would be a much better world after all, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u50	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. That's a good question. Although Iceland, one country, has decided not to have this next division in foreign trade, it does not have much to do with the decisions of these designated countries, but it is the right thing to do. Many countries have also introduced compromises on customs protection against the second state of the world. Once again in our case: We are looking at countries we have very insignificant business with, is more often than not that distant from us that it is immediately certain, we can say, the distance protection on their imports, i.e. Moving your products in here is costing a lot of money. That is why it is more fundamental to show color to offer this possibility as well as to follow the example of many other countries. I think exactly, and repeat what I said in my speech, that it is very important in this group of countries that we are getting closer to this much more organized development aid than regular business talks. Well, the government's ambition to go further, perhaps faster this time than the 18 years it began to set this stage apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u51	V.E.G. President. The 1st. This case I declared support for it, but I also discussed the circumstances in which people live in these countries and is producing the products that we are now going to lift customs off. Just as we were discussing this matter in 1st. Also, we were discussing a two - fold bargain with the Philippines, and I realized that it was totally unacceptable because of the current government. So it is that in this 47 - year - old group of rulers are not ruled by the Boy Scouts in all of them, but, unfortunately, there are authorities that, for example, exist as such. stoning homosexuals on the streets, etc. and treat things that in themselves we do not agree, do not agree, and do not agree. So in many ways I can agree with the speaker mentioned before me that, in reality, we might be doing better with these nations by making an agreement with them for development relief than by necessarily removing customs from their goods. Of course, if anyone, we are to understand the situation in which these nations are in because it is only 150 years since we were in the same place as they are now, about about 150 years ago. Of course, it was a free trade at the time that enabled us to improve the standard of living and raise the standard, outside the natural process of using our resources. Then we come to another, because these fine nations, with many of them, are given to all kinds of wealth and businesses who abuse the wealth that lies both in the earth and on the earth. The way we Westerners view these nations and what they produce is sure of double skin. I've sometimes said, in effect, that if we are consistent, we should say no to the import of chocolate because there are probably no farmers in the world as badly off the market and on the market but also on the level of hot chocolate. They're completely chained down. And a coffee farmer in South America, so I'll give you another example. It's both classes to whom has been committed in gross harshness and cruelty, but we get cheap chocolate and cheap coffee, and it's just kind of cool. The same is true of products made from cotton. I put it here the other day, so when you're buying a cotton garment that may cost a pound, one stick, you wonder, " What did the farmer get for it?" What did the one picking up the cotton get? I think it might be worth more for us to just look at this. However, the development aid we have provided, and many people consider poor and poor, as it were, to try to save people more than ever before. introduces technology that is known to us, as e.g. to catch fish, and then to help these people with health care and other things that we've been doing in Malawi and elsewhere, try to prevent the death of babies and deaths, etc. So I'm promoting this party because, as I say, this group of states is a government that, for example, is one of these states. Treat homosexuals. There are governments that approve child weddings. As people know, 39 thousand children are given in marriages every day of the world each year. Thirty-nine thousand children. In fact, I feel that when such a decision is made as we are taking here - and it may well be that we have taken far too long to make that decision - we should be in front of it, even through business relationships or in some way, to promote the other viewpoints. Actually, I put it that way the other day, for example, abuse of people. The agricultural sector is much closer than we think. I mentioned, for example. An example from Sicily, where Romanian women are harvested in vegetables, even sexually abused. We don't mind having cheap vegetables on our plate. If we want to be responsible consumers, responsible participants in the international community, we must think about these matters too as we contribute to the survival of these nations in a similar way that was made available to us 150 years ago. through free shops. Then again, we know best that this was not a free store for 700 years because it was a monopoly, etc., which has actually been reinvented in the 20th and 21st centuries, another story. In this way we are naturally to use the experience that we ourselves have because we are being oppressed and oppressed in an effort to better understand people who are in the same position that we were then. We really have more and more responsibilities than many others because we have been in this position ourselves. So I draw it up here that though I have been careful to treat certain double - minded people as to our various nationalities, we have been so sacred in front of some nations but have since left nothing, leaving all sorts of oppression and abuse that we do in the countries we have dealings with. Because we have the experience I had earlier, maybe we can be more involved in trying to achieve a more healthy business life in this situation than we do in others. Like I said to the first. ... awrong.: We are here referring to nations that were long oppressed by nations that have 100 years of experience in colonial oppression. Both British, German, and Dutch, as well as others, have centuries of experience in oppressing other nations and have established much of their economy by oppressing their colonies for several hundred years. That's why it's closer, you know, a being like you say "free" if we can put it that way, it's only two or three lifetimes. We should feel a responsibility in this matter and let it pass through the business relationships we make with nations that are there, as I described earlier. To say that, of course, I find this matter as good as it was then. But I cannot allow it to happen again with this warning and urgent appeal to the government of the United States to try to use the influence of this country for good. Fortunately, we are of the size of the nations that we are not threatened, so I know. Since we were killing one another with swords, 1244 or so, we have not been in much strife with people, much less from abroad. We have not brought on a nation by warfare or by anything like that. In this regard, we are in a position to try to be effective in these matters. It now seems that Iceland is properly introduced, e.g. as in the United Nations, with its influence in various matters far beyond the global influence of the nation. I'm just saying, for example, that the United Nations is being listened when we Icelanders speak about equality. Even though we feel that we have a lot of trouble for ourselves, we are looking for the Icelanders in equality. Yet, we can still be examples of the nations in these matters and can help. These words are intended not for some kind of self - exaltation of the nation or national pride or something, but for us only to help. That's a different story. And we can use our experience, our knowledge, right there. Then what I say: Will we not try to use our influence if we have someone to prevent children's weddings, to prevent abuse or abuse of women's genitals, to prevent people from being enslaved because of being recognized in these areas? I think that by the step we are taking now, which is important and important and can be very effective in these nations, we must use our influence in this direction. Of course, we are to use our influence in the pursuit of government in a certain country or certain countries, e.g. To stone people who are gay in the streets and to approve of them. Of course, we should try to use our influence if we have it. Then we will see what I also discussed with 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Um, because they used to talk about agricultural products, Danir quit or quit at least for a time to import cut - off flowers from African countries because they knew that with workers, especially women who arrived there were slaves. They were abused by all kinds of people. Then I'll say again, "We're supposed to be responsible consumers." We are not to import anything in the name of freedom if it takes the least of these, i.e. workers who work on it. A recent example I've mentioned earlier about how men use subsidies. Americans have virtually ruined the self - basic development of rice farmers in Haiti after the earthquake that took place some years ago. When farming there was completely ruined and ruined, the Americans suddenly started pouring in low-down rice from Arkansas, which the U.S. government paid for. By this they indulged, apologized to Mr. President, poured in, I intended to say, cheap rice and ruined the livelihood of many people who for years had a little self - basic farming and cultivated rice only in the garden behind their house. What I say with this is that we should be very careful about opening up ways that can be further abused by the nations as a whole and by the people living there. We must go to the ground with care. As soon as we allow these people to be able to expand their free trade in their homeland, we also have to set specific requirements for them, as we do for ourselves, that the people who are working on getting less expensive products are not being treated badly. To this I will, of course, agree to this bill, but I'm sure it will also present a case in some form, whether it will be a synonym or an inquiry to both the highest level. Secretary of state and economic and economic minister, of the fact that we are using what effect we can have for the benefit of our poorest brothers and sisters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u52	A respectable president. I thank the senator very much for this meaningful speech, for this is an interesting subject in a number of ways that I learned when I considered the matter in the district of 1st. Since the senator's case was extensive, many very serious matters involved, my question may look to him a little insignificant, and I apologize for it. It has something to do with me, when the senator spoke about the coffee and the chocolate, because in these studies, for the matter of Congress, 1st. I found out there's a higher toll on chocolate than on coffee. I thought it was very strange, and I wondered if it could not be fixed. I am not a coffee drinker, even though I do not minimize the power of coffee, for example, I see a link between coffee coming to England and the appearance of Principia Newton, which has been with us much longer than coffee. As a non-cafe drinker, I often get chocolate at the coffee shops when I go there instead of coffee, envying people who often date me very much because they can get a lot less expensive drinks and even pennies, but I need to get this much better than that expensive drink in return. But I wanted the senator to know if he would support me in reducing customs to chocolate when it comes to funding.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's appreciation for this observation. I know that he is a man who is deeply involved in matters that he wants to learn, and he does so very well. I myself am a free coffee drinker, i.e. I'm inactive. I haven't had coffee in years, the best decision I've ever made. Of course, I care about people who drink coffee, not for them. Although I talked to a half-priority earlier, that we should stop importing chocolate, that's why, as I told you earlier, what's going on with them producers. It is one international circle that has approximately every control in the production of chocolate and that abuses these people completely without limits. We may not necessarily have to make up for this product in excess of anything else. I can totally agree with that with what. A senator that there is a reason to examine this difference, but despite what I said before, this is one of the things I feel that Iceland and I should try to bring up international matters. As I say, we are to be responsible consumers, and we should not help to profit from the plight of others. We're not supposed to pile in here cheap lips, e.g. Farmers, in the name of freedom, no matter how much it costs others. In this respect we should also look to the development of the European Union customs file. I think maybe people who speak here about importing cheap agricultural products should learn what it's like for us to import into the European Union, the customs union, our products.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u54	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much, but this is a case that I would like to discuss in the future. Basically, without wanting to simplify it too much, all business barriers between countries are designed to increase poverty in some countries in behalf of others. Then I'm not only talking about freight transport and trade, but also limiting the transport of labor that, when combined with the transport of funds, creates the possibility of a world's poverty pools. The money can go where workers are most expensive, but workforce cannot reach where it is most valued. At present in the world, on earth, there is little understanding of this, and there is a very dangerous assessment that says that at least we're leaving $2 a year in world production, just having such a very strict requirement for working labor transport. This is something I think we can fix, but we don't do it with this bill. What we do with this bill is to take a small but important step in the right direction by reducing the level of environmental pressure. It's under pressure against a lot of countries, and that's very good. Of course, we are to take much more steps, as many have spoken about this matter. I look forward to dealing with it with you, with all of you at the council, but in the meantime, let's think about the opportunities we're missing because of the narrow vision that is primarily to be found with nationalism.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u55	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 186/2017 of change in XVII. Annex to the EEA Convention on Ideas rights. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted Pétur Gunnarsson from the Ministry of State and Jón Vilberg Guðjónsson from the Ministry of Education and Culture. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint EEA Commission on the EEA Treaty and enter the Convention of the European Parliament and the Council of 2014/26/EU from 26 February 2014 on the joint and related rights and license of cross-border countries due to the use of Internet music in the internal market. On March 22, 2018, six months' notice was given under the EEA Convention to defuse administrative warnings. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The 2014/26/EU directive is aimed at harmonising the activities of the Member States by setting them in agreement with the rules for governance, financial, transparency and information administration. The rules are aimed at ensuring participation in the decision-making process of the Member State and the information flow to the rights, rights and services organisations and the public. In addition, the rules are to ensure that the management of income as a legal body is being collected on behalf of the court. The court's rights shall thus be specified in the approved organization, and as the courts can choose a ruling party without regard to citizen's rights and residences. It is not permitted to deny rights to member of a legal body, and courts will themselves be able to grant permission for nonprofit use. At the same time, the directive's purpose is to establish a consistent protocol on national licenses that will be granted by the European Court's legislation on the use of Internet music in order to ensure an increased supply of such services and to specify the requirements of a legal body that will allow such permission to be met. In the treatment of the case of the Commission, it was stated that adaptations called after the European Union had not been approved by a General and Education Committee and a Foreign Affairs Committee. The adjustment involved the specific aspects of the directive, which the committee considered to be a burden to the Icelandic organisation in this field. Instead, the Icelandic government requested temporary adjustment from the directive in order to postpone its burdensome decrees on the reporting of rights parties, so that, in the 2019 financial year instead of 2018, the adaptation text for the joint EEA Commission would be postponed. In view of the long - term change of the directive, however, such adjustments were no longer needed as the requirements for reporting legal organizations will not be valid until the year 2019. A presentation by the State Ministry and the Ministry of Education and Culture stated that the Icelandic legal organisations were well prepared for the changes included in the directive. The implementation of the directive calls for legal adjustments in the country. The Minister of Education and Culture is expected to submit to the General Parliament a bill to new legislation that stipulates the administration procedures, obligatory practices and financial organisations of authors' union. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfeldddóttir and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter were absent from the case. Sæland Goland, a member of the Committee, is in agreement with this opinion. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, Trausti Trari Guðmundsson, Alfí K. Gylfadóttir, Brondótti Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and Logi Einarsson. It may be okay to come into that it's pretty good that this case is getting through, i.e. reaching this level, because there are now the network services that supply author-based material in 64% of European people and a considerably higher proportion expected in Iceland without my having seen figures about it. Then we're talking, for example. On a flow squad like Spotify and Netflix. According to a survey conducted, half of the people aged 183/435 years remind me that Eurostat saw the right to travel abroad and to have the same service freely anywhere in Europe would be of great importance. It gets a little clearer because people travel much more than they used to, and people are amazed when they come to another country, and all of a sudden the services are no longer working. At the same time, there are a lot of people who thought it was probably, and they just sort of built into the object. This has been dependent on various contracts over the years that have caused quite a stir. So this will do a number of things, this specific directive, which hopefully will be implemented as soon as possible by the law, but to the general consumer it is such a requisite, not only because they will be aware of all European travel events but also because this will increase the likelihood that more quality will be available in Iceland. With the rights of the rights, this also means a measure of rights, which makes it possible for people to go to any state of rights, and not really bound by the services of certain courts, as in the past, and hopefully also that the accounting of the money paid by the so - called plains, as they have often been called to the rights of the rights, will be better in the future. That is why many times it has been very lacking. Someone might find it strange that Pirati is in the Generals' front and is in favor of this matter because it has to do with authorial rights, but it may be a good reason to remind that Piratars are not and have never been opposed to authorial rights as such. We only want our modern world to be right in line with our modern - day life. Now I can't exactly remember, but 2. g. Pirata's policy in perfunctory matters is just what we are going to do in raising the modernization of that right. I'm not from recording this fine European directive, but a lot of things are being fulfilled in that direction. So, of course, I talk for a long time, but I'm going to stop here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u56	A respectable president. I'm not going to have many words on this matter, but it came to the committee I'm sitting in, the General and Education Committee. In fact, I have come up here mainly to state support of the case and to remind them that behind the pointed lyrics of this view is real people. It's a matter of life and work for real people and not just consumers. Artmaking, perhaps in this case, involves not only the right of consumers but also the right of artists to gain reasonable gain from their work and to survive their art. Like what? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy reminded us of our speech, but we have a completely different technical reality than we did before the world was covered. Musical materials are distributed in a way that is very different from those of material markets in the form of fakes or CDs and we are reacting constantly. Technology has tended to be a bit ahead of the moral sense, we can say, man is in a way a bit like that, and maybe our manufacturing process is a little bit, so they promote our technical sense, technologyism, ahead of our moral sense. We invent technology and technology, but then we lose weight on how we should work out a number of moral issues that must come up with new technologies. In this case, it was the social rights of artists, the personal rights of artists to gain money from their jobs. I welcome all efforts to promote a system that ensures these rights of artists. I think it's this way. Borders have collapsed in our time, and the earth is much bigger than we realize but much smaller than we realize. Information travels at high speeds between world corners in an instant, and goods can also go from corner to corner in a much more free way. That is also true of art. We've seen it by such means as Spotify, Netflix, and others that people want to pay for material, people want their consumption on art to be put in a more formal direction than just to download and enjoy it without paying for it. To the point, that's the way it is, and it seems to me that this environment is looking more balanced and more balanced. I'm on this one. There was concern from the national rights organisations that it would be burdensome and too important to take care of this registration if it took place in 2018, but its value was delayed for a long time that it is no longer as urgent as the previous issue of the committee. It then indicates that the European Court's Association is well prepared for the changes involved in this directive. I'm on this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u57	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. It may very well be that I'm out in the middle of nowhere with this counter and that question, but I'm wondering something. We didn't see here quite long ago that there was some criticism about a new plant where you can listen if I know the right thing, stories, and the like. For one thing, they were declared righteous, i.e. Those who have and have prepared the material, were, if I remember it correctly, anything wrong with how it started. What I'm just wondering is, is it that the senator believes that this case, the Senate proposal that we are here with, and what hopefully follows, is somehow in order to explain or correct the situation that happened then? The Senator correctly mentioned music employers and filmkeepers and what they all call, but there was something new there, at least something new to me, and that's why I started to think about this now when I listened to the senator's talk whether we were here with some tool to cut and correct the position of those who have the material. I subscribe to Spotify, and I gladly pay for that service. I think it should be a rule that we're not getting material without those who tried to make it get something for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. This is for a senator. First, I'd like to say that I don't really pay for my subscription to Spotify because I feel I'm paying so little. I would like to pay at least twice as much to make the music people who make me happy every day get more for their work. This particular matter. A senator here refers to, unfortunately, I do not have a rhythm how it is exactly grown. I just don't have it in my head and I haven't studied it specifically, I had just, like, any other media reader, a little dependent on it. I think it was some point of concern that this service was initiated without the approval of any agreements that then had any right to public transport on those books. I just didn't trust myself to answer that question. It says here on this directive that it is intended to conform to the court-oriented practice by setting in agreement the rules of working as regards governance, financial arrangements, transparency and information. The rules are aimed at ensuring participation in the decision-making process of the Member States and the information flow to the state of the state. For one thing, it was because of the way I reminded them that behind this law is real people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I think it was just fine now that I misunderstood. It is correctly spoken of an organization in the case we are discussing, in this synonym. I can say with what. A senator, though I put it so that I gladly paid for the subscription, that, of course, this is not a lot of money and could be more. But it's better to pay for this than to rob it somewhere. However, I believe it is important for us in Iceland, especially to protect those who are creating something for us the others who lack the gift of making music or writing books. How important it is that we hold our arms around it and use our power of reason and all practical means to avoid misuse of substances that others have made for life! In view of the discussion that has taken place, I think we should consider it sometime, whether we are out of it, that's good enough for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I agree with his Word, and I don't have much to add. History has been following the Icelanders for centuries in various forms. They've written stories on paper, in scripts; the actual publication is nothing so old, the narrative itself is much older, and they've followed us much longer in various costumes, especially oral uniforms, i.e. The narrative art then presented for us. I seem to be getting more popular with people buying access to such novels and other books, i.e. To have this read for yourself. I think there's going to be a market for the future. However, we must also, the legislators and the authorities, make sure that such activities grow on their own terms and that they are successful and will not become submerged, on the other hand, in excessive political competition and from officials who view only the consumer as having the right to the art but the manufacturer, the artist, and those who make this uniform should not get anything for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u61	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the determination of the joint EEA committee for the change in XI. An Annex on the General Personal Protection Protocol. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Jóhanna Bryndís Bjarnadóttir and the Álfrún Baldursdóttir of the State Department, Rósa Dögg Flosadóttir of the Ministry of Justice and Vigdís Eva Líndal of Peronour. This proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to accept the proposed decision made by the European Commission, but in the General Personal Protection Programme it is a recommendation for the protection of individuals in connection with the implementation of personal information and the regulations relating to the free sharing of information. The rules about basic rights and individual freedom, especially their right to protect personal information. On May 25, the general personal protection principle was developed in the European Union. The rules do not include the EFTA countries in the EEA, such as Iceland, until it has been formally adopted to the EEA Convention by decision made by the European Commission and that decision made. The proposal is submitted to the General Assembly before a joint EEA committee has agreed on a decision. On March 16, 2018, the EFTA states formally sent to the European Union to decide the joint EEA Commission's decision on the recording of the EU contract. It usually takes three to five months for the EU to complete a procedure to be authorized to agree on such issues prior to the treatment of the joint EEA committee. In the meantime, the EFTA countries in the EEA, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway are appointed by the National Parliament to agree with a controversial decision to the joint EEA committee. The reason for the proposal to seek the prerogative clearance of the Generals to confirm the decision without a administrative notice is that the decision to produce the General Protection Protocol in the EEA is essential as early as after it is taken to minimise the flow of personal information between Iceland and the European Union. The implementation of the Council of Europe and the Council calls for legal adjustments on the land, and the Minister of Justice has proposed a bill on the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information. Is that to be discussed at the moment? A top-of-the-art Board of Education. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Vosa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfjordsdóttir and Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson were away at the hearing of the case. Under that rule, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Barbjörndóttir and as well. Councilmen K. Gylfadóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bordi Haraldsdóttir, Logi Einar Einar Einarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Þýræður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u62	A respectable president. Here we are talking about another part of this so-called personal protection thing we've been talking about. Sadly, I was absent, busy elsewhere, when the matter was settled by a foreign - language committee. I think that the matter needs a lot of thought and actually more than I think it might be today. I think the warnings regarding the constitution need to be considered much better than is being done today. So I think it should be emphasized that better the review of the bill for the treatment of a General and Education Committee, if I remember correctly. A few days ago, June 2, Justice Hjartarson writes an article in the Morning newspaper, under the heading: the Constitution, the EEA Convention and Personal Protection Act. In her brief article, Arnöl Arnaldur this about very well. In effect, it made me wonder if we have just rushed too quickly to the Foreign Affairs Committee to complete the Senate resolution. I hope so. Councilmen don't misunderstand me, that I'm something special to criticize the members of Congress who were involved in the report from the Foreign Affairs Committee. I believe, however, that there would have to be more coverage and possibly to be seen in the opinion of the committee, just as there is more discussion of the Constitution and the warnings that exist. In the Senate arrangement, we find an explanation on page 18. 10 parts of what the writer's about. What interests me and would have been good if I had more discussions with the State Department of State and could go deeper into things with the ministry, certainly one meeting I sat on is that there are simply two ways that we can handle all of this or how we deal with all of this together. By permission of the president, I will be allowed to read from this chapter on page 18. 10: ▪ The negotiation agreements' status to be made at the conference's end, (i.e. Between the EFTA and the EU on how we should implement this - it had to adapt to the Regulation so that the European Environmental Protection Agency could have authority against the EFTA Protection Agency. That option was mentioned in the negotiation talk, "The complete access of the European Precinct's Generalty Guideline (E.S.H.H.H.H.H.I.I.E.) So, with the permission of the President: There was no suggestion for adaptation of the Regulation with the implementation of the EFTA (EU) monitoring facility. This adjustment had previously been chosen in 2016 for the adaptation and recording of European financial monitoring institutions in the EEA Convention. Now I don't remember exactly how the discussion was at this one meeting I sat with the Ministry and others about it, but it would have been very interesting to know why it was not more important to go the traditional way we've talked about this introduction. At least that's where we're looking out for the constitution. The article Arnaldur, including ... aboutthis. It says that the apparent route is in effect depositing part of the court or ruling authority to foreign institutions, i.e. This European Environment Agency. Whether it is made small or large, he gives sound reasons why it was done. What I'm worried about is that it also appears in the bill, in explanations by step 8, what can be called a constitution, that there are ways to support the concern raised by the writer, i.e. Despite the fact that this European institution does not have direct decision-making authority over individuals, it may be indirectly, i.e. that decisions against the National Protection Agency have a direct bearing on the individual. I wondered, " Is this part not the full need to go deeper and deeper? ' Is it quite clear that we are only in the best interests of people, because I think it's a small matter - giving up the government, the government, to this joint European Union? Are we really surrendering the individual's rights as well? If it is, you can read it, at least I'll read it out of this, it may well be that there's a misunderstanding, out of the writer's writings, the son of Hjartarson, and then it looks a little different. In fact, one writer noted that this might even be opposed to the advice that another noted lawyer had on the lines that would be superior to the introduction, but later it will come. This is I think, unfortunately, just an example. I'm worried that we're rushing into this matter too much. I think the matter itself is the best thing to do when we look at the big picture, that is, to improve really the state of personal protection or the way we think and act in a personal way. Of course, we need to be careful that we do not take steps because we are giving up and putting on the sovereignty more than the word. That is why I think and emphasize in my case the use of the days at least to go to this section of the bill. I'd rather have known that it would be postponed until autumn and that much more and better work would be put in its preparation. We may be able to import, possibly I say, indicate the directive, but the import is stored. A respectable president. I'm not saying this because I want something to slow it down. I'm really worried about this after I think about it a little bit more. I think we should go to the ground with caution on this matter. I would like to, with the permission of the President, to take a little less of the article that Hjartarson Arnaldur in the Morning newspaper to make the concern that the writer has expressed. By permission of the president, he says in one place in his article: The Court's decision of the EU seems to be restricted to the European Court, but the Icelandic government is not involved in that court. It will also be up to the EU Regulation to bind the hands of the Icelandic courts in terms of the legality of the state of Peritoneal protection associated with EU decision decisions, as per 143.mgr. The foreword of the Regulation. If this is true, this purpose is for judicial action. That's exactly what I think we need to consider on the General and Education Committee, whether this is real, and if we can somehow fix, change, or prevent this. Then Arnaldur, with the permission of the president, says: All of this raises questions related to the constitution. In terms of the implementation of the European Commission it is concluded in the bill that the office of the authority for the EU is small, that it is only in the realm of the European Commission in narrowly limited cases, and that it binds only governments, not individuals or companies. Despite this, however, it is widely accepted in the bill, which I referred to in section 8 of the bill - ◯ that the decision made by Perone Protection will follow the decisions made by the EU institutions and based on the results of the Agency may certainly affect individuals or legislators. So it seems at first glance that the proposed projection can touch individuals and legislatures in Iceland. If that's the case, then we're not only tying it to government agencies or government agencies. That's how we're affecting the individuals and lawyers in Iceland. Then the writer says: There is no discussion in the bill on why the Icelandic government agreed in the Joint EEA Commission that the two supporting systems would be removed so that the EU institutions could gain power to provide binding commands to the European Union. However, some of this is shown on page 6. 10 In the synopsis with the synopsis proposal, this was simply not a suggestion for a two - sided route. Now I say once again, I didn't have time to go through my notes, whether an explanation was made at the only meeting I was applying for this. Then the writer says, with permission from the president: In fact, on the bill it suggests that the route that had begun in this regard was the same as the one in question - i.e. deporting from the two supporting systems - some of which have been opposed to Stefánsson's counseling Professor Stefán. In particular, the bill says that Stefán Már may have indicated that the EFTA monitoring agency may be assigned to make decisions against the EFTA countries instead of the EU institutions. This is another aspect that you would do well to consider and go to the committee. Toward the end of this article, the writer reexamines the proceedings of the court and reviews the understanding of the bill makers and how all of this relates to 60th and 70th. The constitution. Then, at the end of this article, Arnaldur, with permission from the president, says: The rules of the EU's Regulation for personal protection are intended to have a widespread impact on Icelandic society. The General now has the opportunity to discuss the new bill. It is hoped that there will be sufficient time to determine whether the Constitution has been fully incorporated into government negotiations with its members on the scene of the joint EEA committee. I think we have to take that warning very seriously. We need to take time to observe this, whether or not the constitution's requirements on this matter have been fully guarded. A respectable president. I think and I know that there is no one in this room or at a council that doesn't respect the Icelandic constitution and that it can be gradually transferred to anyone else, no matter where we stand in political or other opinions about the European Union or the EEA agreement or any other. That's not what it's about. It's about us filling up with the rules and responsibilities we've taken at the council and also respecting the Icelandic constitution. A respectable president. I wanted to present these points or concerns, so they're already there. I also think it's important that we combine that there's a lot of work to be done about the bill, that we don't take any chances, if it can be used here in a speech chair, that we now go over it. That's important. It's more important than speed this through the council with hope and hope.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u63	A respectable president. A few details on this matter. Its need is revealed in what has happened in recent years as to the misuse of human information, the misuse of personal information. For example, the Vodafone leak, the leak, the Ashley Madison leak, had information about Icelanders on a foreign site but got into distribution. These are all examples of people who did not know exactly what information existed and who had no chance of being sure of the safety of others or of third parties. These examples should be a very good foundation for us to understand how important it is to adopt these rules, regardless of whether they are induction or not. There are other examples. I mention what Chelsea Manning and Edward Snowden showed us, how they handle information, what state of state does with information, what spys us, how governments spy on us, and how they act under cover of secrecy, trust, and security. For one thing, it is important to adopt these rules. A recent example of the election in the United States, regarding Cambridge Analyctica, is yet another friendship on the collection of personal information, their use in various ways that we could not have imagined were possible only a few years ago. That example should tell us the need to adopt these rules and laws. The fact that we can find out what we have, that we can know and control it with whom we share and that we can have it destroyed is a tremendously important quality for people to keep their identity and personal protection in a digital world. It is worth referring to, in fact, that not so many years ago, I think six, seven years ago or so, the Convention of Human Rights among the United Nations was established that human rights also apply in a digital world, in a digital environment. This rule of action and induction is a step toward actually protecting our personal information in this new digital world. Whether this was a rule against the Constitution, regarding where a surveillance agency is followed up on whether these laws are being carried out, etc., the examples show how important it is to take this matter seriously and not to give up in order to master our privacy in a digital world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u64	President. This is a very important situation. In addition, we support, in principle, the work being done here, to accept the recording of the EES Convention without a administrative precaution prior to its own implementation and also the unusual way that a bill or law on the basis of this type is not approved at the General Assembly. There is, however, good reason to be concerned about various aspects of this matter. The factors that we have. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson tore here are all points not to be approached lightly when it comes to the constitution. It is clear, then, that during the short period of time, the council has a full responsibility to stop this matter from completing its affairs with some dignity so that the best will be done to the extent possible. That's kind of where my worries are. It is quite clear when you see the bill for a new personal protection law on the basis of this directive that, in a number of cases, it seems to me, goes a considerable distance than the actual directive requires of you. There's a lot of ideas. I think it's worth it for us to keep it in mind that even though it's a good thing to do, like a rough one. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson came on, is taking a huge step in protecting people's privacy, securing the rights of individuals to get information about what information is stored or collected about them, as well as ensuring their right to have such data destroyed. Is it clear from all this discussion that the European Union has taken the lead in this important issue? In an ever - increasing digital world, there is an enormously important step, as the countless examples did. A senator mentioned in his talk. It does not change that this matter is too late for the council so that we can take care of it carefully. As we look at how burdensome these legislation can be for the job life here, how costly it can be in induction, and how much doubt about how to interpret the directive, how to work after it - it is quite clear that, in reality, there will not be an explanation of the above facts until we act in the process - I think we need to take a very careful approach to the earth in the induction process. It's already been done, e.g. Be critical of the high level of fines that I consider to be highly unnatural in view of the uncertainty of interpretation, the uncertainty of what is going to be done in these matters. Then I think the council should immediately face the fact that this is the right thing to implement the directive as simply as possible and then allow experience to implement the procedure before a revised legislation is instituted at the council. It may even be wise to wait a year or two before such a bill would be submitted simply to gain better experience in the matters of opinion that such legislation needs to be addressed. Therefore, I think it is very important that in the treatment of the General and Education Committee on this important matter, the immediate action of this procedure will be under way that the European Directive is being legalized to discuss with the necessary supplementes it must follow in order to handle some information through induction, but that this will not be followed any further. I think there's something else that would be most irresponsible from the Council. This has been a matter of several years to be done in the Ministry, a number of warnings have been given regarding the method selected by the Ministry for the induction process and how far it goes in many cases, how much more is involved with the regulations presented here, or under the restrictions of the Regulation. I believe that it is simply wise and necessary for the council to implement this with minimal rules in the first round and then provide a set time period for better experience with this important legislation to be carried out before e.g. to use a very burdensome penalty of guilt or punishment. We hear warnings from both rural areas, also from businesses of the country, many of which have worked very hard in preparation for induction, many of which are pretty much ready for such induction. But everywhere, the same warning is given. There's a lot of unsolved ideas here. This is a very burdensome bill, which in many cases seems to go far beyond what needs to be done. That is why, simply in view of the lack of time we have here at the council, I think it is necessary to simplify this production. I really hope that there can be a more solid part in the council that we will not go beyond the need for companies and communities in this regard. For it is quite clear that, however, these legislation will have a significant impact, which we all agree to be required, but there is nothing that calls for going beyond the minimum protocol of the first cycle. That is why I trust that we will focus on the important things, the things that are really important. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson came in, i.e. any concerns that may arise regarding a constitution in the implementation of this Regulation and that we resolve to minimal induction in the first cycle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-06-69.u65	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a change in the law of the post and communications agency and telecommunications law, receipts for frequencies and services. The Committee is from an environment and transport committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a member of the Department of Transport and Department of Transport, from Vision Hf., from Milu ehf. and from the post and communications agency. There were rumors from Milla, Vision, River Valley, and the Post and Communications Department. The bill suggests that there will be changes in terms of costs, on the other hand, in terms of reducing the specific incidence rates and modifying the definition of currency and in charge of charge due to the extension of the incidences. These are proposed changes to VI. Chapter of Communication, No. 81/2003, for public service and special communications services. In terms of remuneration for rates, a comment was observed at the 7th paragraph. the bill that includes the addition of the law to a new provisional directive allowing reimbursement of two ultimatums. They are designated for February 13, 2022. The comments turned to the fact that the required frequencies have already been reassigned. It premonitions that the Council may pay a price for later uses. The committee pointed out that according to 2 mg. 77st. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144, no tax will be imposed on him unless he has been legalized by the legal authorities when dealing with an tax-declared incident, and it is not considered that the above premium in the decision will change anything, including governmental decrees rather than a rule-registered law on the ban on indelibating taxation. In view of these observations and having agreed with the Ministry, the Commission believes that although there is a resource expenditure that is not considered conclusively taxed, there is certain legal uncertainty about the state of the law on the Constitution. In view of the small amount, 20 million. K. A loss of income for the state's funds, puts the commission to straddle 7. The bill will be removed. The committee claims that the lawgiver will have his own free hands to decide the pay due to the high rates when they come for reassignment in 2022. I have now explained the only change proposed by the committee. However, the committee also discusses some of the services in regard to the change in the definition of the public service. Notes were made regarding changes in aiming for the services level at the usable Internet service. The Commission cannot agree with the view that effective Internet access regulations are in opposition to EEA rights. The EEA type responsible for the Global Service Protocol for communication is presented in the Social Services and Management Directive for communications networks and services of users. According to the recommendations, the relationship should enable the final users to call and receive phone calls within the country and abroad, communicate in the form of faxes, and/or through data shipments that are sufficient to provide usable access to the Internet, taking into account more part of a subscriber's controlled technology, and whether it is technically possible. It is not specified that a specific transfer speed should be established. The Committee suggests that it is beneficial to seek to aim for the level of services performed in a functioning Internet service. The overall goal of services has been to ensure users of a useful Internet service based on the specific technical level at each time. This speed was estimated to be 128 kb/s, with a high rate of data present, whether in a fixed or mobile network of about 50 MB/s, and to be expected to increase significantly over the next few years. Thus, the committees feel that it is right to have a definition of the level of services of an all - time service in order to adhere to normal technology. A review of the services level will likely result in increased demand for data transport speed, without specifically definition. The result of the problem was that there is a general offer of a useful Internet service available to market leaders very much and therefore do not anticipate that the demand may be burdensome to the telecommunication market, nor that a certain telecommunication company rather than others be assigned to render such services to users. However, effective Internet services will not be available to all users in small and peripheral areas of the market, but in these cases governments will have to find ways to secure effective Internet services, whether with an international service appointment of one or more telecommunications companies. The Commission points out that in view of the government's objectives for fiber optics, nearly all homes in the country by 2020, can be expected to ensure that the project, whether with an international service appointment of one or more telecommunications, will be less extensive than at present. The committee points out that the bill also suggests that all services will not be dependent on a particular technology. The service is now confined to a constant line system, i.e. about a ground cord. When the legislation was passed at the turn of the century, data transport services and/or public Internet services were not expected to be provided in laptops. Now the speed at which the whole service is moving is much higher than the speed it takes. So the Committee agrees with the bill's objective that any technical solution, i.e., will be legally defined by the services of any kind. that users can be assured of minimal replacement services with mobile solutions as well as with a ground cord. It has been observed that in many cases, data transport services can be provided with much faster and more efficient transport services. The Commission believes that if this change is made in the alminist laws it will be possible to reduce the services of the current public service providers significantly, and therefore the bill does not include increased incentives for an public service provider. In view of the above views, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change, previously stated, that Article 7. ... goout. Under the writings of Chairman Bergþór Ólason, Projective Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Karl Gauti Hjaltason. Jón Gunnarsson, Róka Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjölfjöffsdótttir and Árnason Arnam wrote this under the authority of 4 mg. 18th par. Standards for the Synod's fixed committees, where they were absent from the case.
