ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u1	The president considers it possible for a conference to last longer than the Council to be held if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u2	The President wants to inform you that at least two meetings today and there will be votes on their bounds, after lunch, or on the afternoon. The second session will then include the issues that will be raised from this meeting, such as funding, the issues that will be ready for the 3rd meeting. and some matters that have come from committees who have been asked for. The votes for discussion at the second meeting, if all of this works out, will be in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u3	To answer, financial and economic ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u4	President. In the event of reports of the reported emissions of capital syrup and measures, they were severely divided in three ways. One of the main teams was how to get the emissions of the so - called Off-country and, in a somewhat clear and precise way, interpret the method used. It also showed that all of these measures would need to be in place, must be balanced, and that all would have to be willing to contribute to the success of the overall work and that the action being proclaimed would be justified. About the middle of 2016, however, some setback occurred to this third team in terms of the delta, and it has never been correctly explained why it was. The resulting embarrassing process began in the emissions of agricultural property, which included some of which included land use. In the repeated negotiations with the owners of this capital, a hedge fund, especially those who had bought these assets at considerable discounts and intended to profit from them, and a constant permissiveness, for when the government's efforts at the time were not approved, then there was simply a return of conversation. It has now been observed that governments are planning to release the rest of these African property. In other words, those who ignored the policy of the Icelandic government, those who did not listen to the plan, those who did not believe that governments would live by what they claimed would do if men were not willing to negotiate, make the most money. What does this say about the credibility of the Icelandic government? Has the highest. Ministers don't worry about that, and why? Why such a change?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u5	A respectable president. First, I want to say that the government's plan for decommissionation has been very successful. This is reflected in growing trust in the United States and in the United States. I referred to this context to the fact that the credit balance companies have been rising regularly in Iceland. I refer to the way things were done in the management of the old farms and in the process of delinquency. For the most part, we have been solving a financial problem that was frighteningly large, but it has gradually gone away, and his shadow has become relatively short. So I'd like to argue that the next action to be taken in the feeding course is some kind of final procedure. They have always been predictable and normally followed by a successful previous government action. Right away. One senator says that what was supposed to happen if people didn't listen to the government was anything but this, I ask: "What's the problem? A senator talking about? That's what I'm talking about. A senator talking about the practical use of property? That's what I'm talking about. A senator talking about us staying here holding off our seas to the infinite of that just? It's all in the natural logical context. Now it's time for the final phase. Rather than being able to take that step, we can reason that it is now necessary for us to take that step because the underlying problem has been changing, the pay problem has been gradually retreating, and thus the basic basis for having had the head in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u6	A respectable president. Of course, I agree with that with the highest. As a whole, financial minister has had emissions, and these measures have gone forward. But because of the highest. Minister will ask him what the plan was about the deportations. It was announced that those who did not participate in currency contributions could not expect to get better out of it by shunning the invitations. Afterward, when the Navy talks with someone who disagreed with the success they had, the message from the government was: If they are not prepared for it, you can just stop being stuck here for decades. The message was that if people were not willing to participate in what had to be done in order to clear the seas, they would not get out of it better than others. But now the conclusion is that the scale of the hedge - ups came true. They purchased these assets with considerable discount, and the government eventually gave up. There was nothing to say that if they didn't compromise, they'd be locked in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u7	A respectable president. What was said was that there would be rest. Those who did not share in the invitations received no clear answer as to which time they would be allowed to access these assets. That was the main message. This included no threat that humans would be far worse than that, but not in itself legitimately putting men against the wall that the government was going to arrange for the knots to gather from human possessions. It was simply said, "This will be left over. " And now we have solved what had to come first, and we are blessed with external circumstances that have developed in our favor. If it had gone the other way, I agree. A senator might still face situations that led to our being unable to take this step. Happily, though, most of us have had a fall in our favor. The level of payment is good. We can see that, for example. This year's third quarter - year - old business balance is one of the greatest we've seen in history, so there is no longer any danger signals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u8	A respectable president. The health system has a certain design problem, including vibrating problems with nurses. The Land Hospital's plans are very short, which means that the cost of a nurse's status is far higher than that of all plans and that would be a natural design. When doctors'pay went up, the man - made doctors, at that time, improved. It is possible to maintain a consistent relationship, to resolve the problem of the husband because there are a lot of nurses who are not working as nurses and who are paid to teach. I'd like to ask a minister about the problem, that we pay more money for more expensive engineering than we could have. At the same time, we could simply pay a better salary to the union where a designer is in, without even spending extra money on what we do now. I'd like to hear from the highest. A minister who makes a decision whether there is any transition to the water for reexamination and changes in this to solve the problem we are facing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u9	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator that there is a designer in the medical system, but he is not just a problem that now confronts us, but it seems to me that we can assume that the problem is increasing. In this regard, it can be noted that in 2010 approximately 5 Icelanders at the labour market for each senior citizen, i.e. A pensioner. In 2025 it will be four, in 2035 it will be three, so we will see the age of the nation, and this will increase the overall pressure on health. Hv. A senator asks if there is a simple solution to what is simply raising the pay. I can say that, of course, the union's terms must matter. In recent years they have improved dramatically. There's been something to help solve the problem, but I'm afraid the problem is much bigger than this because the problem isn't just with Iceland. Thousands are needed if not tens of thousands of nurses in the North countries, and the problem is growing. If there was a simple solution to change remuneration and to try to further any agreement that one class goes up the pay ladder faster than the other classes, medical staff, doctors, others in the medical profession, I think we were long gone on that road. But the problem is bigger and needs to be solved by various measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u10	A respectable president. You're absolutely right at the highest. Ministers that this is a complex problem and definitely a future problem, but we also have a lot of nurses who are not working as nurses, in part because the pay is a problem. We have a modern problem that could be solved. I'd like to ask the Minister about something else, too. The fundraiser is a contribution to the church meeting. According to the Department's answer to the Board of Education inquiry, the church body pays 138 priests, but it also shows that those places are increasing or decreased from registrations in the National Church. Now at least The number of people in the National Church since this church meeting should be reduced by two Catholic standards, but according to the Ministry's answer, the number remains unchanged. I was wondering if a minister was going to fix this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u11	A respectable president. We have become too accustomed to handling this particular matter on a budget. It's been too long to finish the contracts on this case so they can be in force, and we can expect these financial contracts to be taken care of. I've made it happen here in my discussion that I have become very hoping that at last we will be making deals so that this will not be a future fundraiser. That's right, as a matter of course. One senator says, it is reflected in the number of parishioners who are and their exchange. I don't have it all in my head, but I would have thought it would be an easy thing to get precise numbers on the transition and a list of the money in the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u12	A respectable president. To be exposed to unauthorized and false medical records, to be published with a social security number, and the whole network cannot be acceptable. But private companies, such as Fool Juris, have these files used by judges, officials, lawyers and law students, and you pay to access these files, and you pay for accessing them all wide open; landmarks, all information, sensitive personal information, sensitive medical information. Then there's something else. They're bragging about having 100,000 connections in the system. Where's the personal protection? At the same time, it is meant to protect criminals, to protect them, and to keep an anonymous name on wrongdoers. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: Is this normal? Is it not reasonable to start making sure that those who are unable to defend themselves, sick people, and that their landmarks and all their information, very sensitive personal information, are not open to anyone who wants to pay for them? At the same time that we must realize that we have just closed down a web that contained information on human income. It was totally unacceptable. Income. I can't see how they're going to hurt one or another, but sensitive personal information can hurt and it can hurt. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: Will she see to it that this will be closed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up an important issue recently discussed, that is exactly what personal information is being published in the courts. Of course, it would be a terrible situation if there were any government action to protect criminals, such as that. A senator mentioned, protecting personal information about them, but not sensitive information about the civilian. Of course, that is not the case. But I don't know what's wrong. A senator refers to the fact that the medical records of people are open to the public through some company he names here. I don't think so. It just can't be, for it would be completely incorruption. Hv. A senator may be referring to a company in this town gathering the scheduled sentences of every sentence and publishing a collection to his subscribers. It's been that way for a long time. But it's not that this company takes the initiative to publish these judgments, but the court shows the court itself, and this company does just as it has been during the past few years. But it is now to see if some change should occur. Of course, it is not an opinion to protect the judge's special interests, but the other, to protect sensitive personal information, including that of the other person. The subject of the matter. But the personal information of doomed persons may also be sensitive because judges also enjoy human rights that must be guarded. Is it true, then, that they are made public on the Internet forever? That's what I'm calling attention to. It is imperative that the rules for the performance of a judgment court order be agreed on at all levels, not today, and that it also be considered whether it is proper to publish a sentence above the otherwise relevant publication and is legal and must, of course, be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u14	A respectable president. I thank the Minister of Justice for the answers, but I was talking about the medical records that the courts have and publish. What the common people do not know and others do not know is how they are treated in court. The evidence can be attributed to very personal information. The ones I've seen are terrible. As a witness, I would not want to inform such things before the court. You shouldn't be able to get into it just because your name and social security number is undefeated. It must be minimally necessary for us to protect those who are in need and forced to face in court to testify that they cannot be attributed to sensitive personal information that even the information can be used to harm the individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u15	A respectable president. Whatever it is. A candidate is referring to a publication in court cases where it is unavoidable to discuss the delicate personal information of a subject, both in private and in criminal matters, especially in private matters where the medical history has been frequently referred. Of course, it is absolutely incorruption that such judgments are made public. Then it is also necessary to wonder, and I know that the courts are doing so these days, whether it is necessary to have in judgment upon the heads of this information which is properly not made public. Hv. A senator can trust me to look at these matters, and I agree with him that this is absolutely incorruption. Judgments must not cause them to be overly burdened with witnesses and should not cause them to shrink back to court, which is often a matter of sensitive personal matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u16	V.E.G. President. In a short talk I gave earlier this week, I made it clear that the subject of the older citizens'pensions from social security that has nothing else to do with their hands and that they pay $239,500 dollars. a month to that end, and a tax is taken from that payment. So far below all forwards, they have fallen behind in recent years. A newly released budget bill expects a 3.6% rise, which is naturally nothing more than hunger lice. Unfortunately, the minister of finance was absent at that meeting on Monday, and so I direct my talk to him when the opportunity arises. A group of people were appointed to go over this position in spring, but now, six months later, the committee has not yet issued any suggestions. When I made this sad situation that last morning's discussion was all that was to be heard but that I had to agree that it had to be done better. I have had the opportunity to enter the Council at 79 years of age, and my only assignment is, in fact, speaking for the elderly, and not to mention. I've been watching the money bill. I have been sitting at a meeting of the budget committee and have seen and read the State budget for the next year and a bill for financial contributions by 2018. There's no mention of any newer citizens. I don't come to this room on a football machine to kick somebody or anybody. Besides, I'm not on the block to relax. [[The president calls.]] My business at a council hall is to remind members of the elderly who live in poverty, sickness, isolation, and emptiness. The rest of us owe them a hand. [[The president calls.]] That is why I use the opportunity to raise the question to the minister of finance that he will inform me and the nation whether we are missing the train or are standing shunning an older citizen. [[The president calls.]] I ask for an answer and a statement that will be taken into account for the older generation, and it is still a matter of government to take note of an old man who has been dropped here and is here for the oldest generation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u17	A respectable president. We're in Iceland today with a good system of pension rights, a very high level of employment and low unemployment, and we really have full-time pension rights, i.e. the rights to be published and previously published are approximately It's a treasure. This knows good for the future. Our problem is with those who are in their pension age, but they didn't make it, like a whale. A senator goes over here, taking advantage of his career to secure his retirement. In recent years, we have made great effort to correct the position of this group. That's why I have to disagree. When a senator claims that this group was left behind, he says. In recent years, he has not been able to sit back, the power of pensions, has grown dramatically. But we want to do better, that's right. I'd especially like to agree with what. A senator when he points his attention to those in the weakest position, those who do not have the opportunity to obtain employment, e.g. Those with no pension rights, no capital gains, no saving tools other than those in social security. It's the people who are in the weakest position. I've always spoken from this chair that as our strength grows in order to be more behind those whose feet are in the community, we should look more at them. On the other hand, I often engage in conflicts in this council hall with regard to how we are to make arrangements for the money, and many people want to eliminate any loss they may have for the full - time ministry. We've raised the income markets for employment, but if they were to be taken care of entirely, it would be very expensive for state funds, at the same time as it would be of no use to this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answer. We may not agree fully on how this system should function, but we agree to handle the problems of a large group of older citizens by getting the amount I mentioned earlier from social security, which is naturally not available. But I trust it to the highest. Ministers do an experiment, and they try to help the worst. That's what I'm talking about, and that's where we're supposed to start, and then we'll see how we can change the system to some extent in the future or in the next few years. They have reached their age that they cannot wait long. This is the question of whether we want to help them enjoy quality before they finish.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u19	A respectable president. I cannot help but agree with this noble goal. A senator describes it. Then, in the larger context of the sections, I want to show the importance of making sure that the commitments we make for the long future are financed so that we can live up to them in time. This, of course, is a big case that is hard to empty for two minutes and one minute. It is complicated this interaction of various rights that people have, e.g. in the Pension System and then the rights to be found in the social security system. We need to make sure that we do not have the impairments too much. Of course, there must be payoffs for employment income, capital gains, other incomes such as pension incomes than any movement, due to the size of the team, for changes in limits may be very taxable. That is why this group is at work, to review where we can make the most effective change in the spirit of the individual. There's a senator here, and it's all about work. [[The president calls.]] A budget then describes the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u20	Mr. President. In an interview at Station 2 yesterday, the head of the police's prosecution in the capital area, Hulda Elsa Björgvinsdóttir, in which she makes up her concern and office of the pressures and lawsuits of the Department of Sexual Crime in the capital area, speaks of a period of verbal treatment that is excessively long and that the courts make an increasing comment at the rate of treatment and that this will lead to an increased court order to legal justice in serious sexual abuses. There is a apostasy that has been observed that serious offenses are not conditional, even if their case is hiccuped. This is a serious matter. We are in the community trying to stand up for sexual wrongdoing, and part of it is, of course, that the system of justice and the research system is working as well as it should. It is very bad if the system itself causes sexual offenders to escape with less punishment. My question to the highest. So Minister of Justice is this: Does he have the same concern about the situation as did the head of the police charge in the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u21	A respectable president. I'm concerned, like the rest of the court's system, that the duration of the treatment is too long, may be in isolated cases, especially in the fractures as early as possible. A senator makes publicity, i.e. the case of sexual abuse. It has been a long one for some time, but some two years ago we had a great deal of effort to promote the sexual crime of the police in the capital area, which has been very effective. I see very closely the way in which men cope with the problems that have existed over long periods of research as well as the problems faced by the police with increased charges of such cases in recent years, which, of course, have been followed. #metoo's entire speech. This was specifically discussed in the actions program that I recently published on the treatment of sexual fractures in the justice system. Work has been successful at this time, and this was shown in the case of the prosecution at any given moment. A senator refers to his news that recently things have been going very well. There has been an increasing number in the police staff on that matter, but I believe that the work that has taken place in the past to improve and change procedures in such cases as also in the prosecution itself is the result of both investigation and the prosecution itself. Of course, all of this is looking to improvement, and the court cases cited in the news are older than have been in less recent times as a minister of justice. This looks for improvement, however, but I seriously doubt that there is a probationary judgment, and I haven't seen any figures on it, in serious offenses, and I thought it would be a terrible situation, if that were the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the answer. I'd like to quote directly to the governor of the prosecution, by permission of the President: ▪ Justice agencies have not been breaking these serious offenses, but we are seeing an increase in these issues in a very special way. The governor of the prosecution sees this increase as the highest. The Minister of Justice does not seem to have any details. In view of these claims by the governor of the prosecution, how does he feel about this? And at the same time, I wish that a minister of justice would express himself on these increases, which I insist on being true. How does he feel about the situation that has come up, that courts have come to terms with serious sexual abuse because of the use of a lawsuit?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u23	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my previous answer, I would feel it was a masquerading situation if there was a significant increase in probationary judgments on serious matters. Now I don't have those statistics, and I think it's useful for people to prove some statistics and possibly some explanation for those statistics. As the story shows, as a boy. A candidate mentioned, there is a reference to very special cases. I can't express myself about it, because it's beyond something that the prosecution itself needs to consider. The Minister of Justice is not involved in criminal charges or investigation. Rather, the prosecution is completely independent in this respect, and the police in this respect are also involved. However, both the police and the prosecution need to take a close look to see if there is a need for legal practice in the house to meet this problem. Of course, your research needs to be prioritised so that there will be no serious wrongs in the trial period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u24	A respectable president. Here is a request to report from the United States Parliament on the initiative. paritaprevir Ágúst, son of Ólafur, the son of Ágústsson. They insist that more detailed information on the status of the elderly should be obtained in the country and compared to the rest of the North and the average OECD countries, so that the discussion of the elderly becomes more detailed, more complex, and more extensive. The numbers of the elderly and the numbers of the nation are increasing. Today, some 50,000 people are 65 years of age and older. It is estimated that by 2066 the population had increased by 100,000 and 65 years of age and older, according to the newspaper Habitat of Iceland, an increase of 50,000. We expect it to be. This request is accepted by a body of Congress and agrees with this assessment, which will be beneficial in an upbuilding way with the contract of health policy and long-term shape of the case party in New York society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u25	Mr. President. Now we're about to vote for the terms of the budget that the board has agreed on. All our suggestions in the United States were given a vote on the budget. There were also suggestions for child welfare and housing. The government and the government also ignore the labor movement's demands that the commodities that the government can use will be new. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, does not use the electronic devices available. We in the United States can't support this bill. There is, however, one factor that is positive, and we will support, and that is the reduction in the insurance bill. Otherwise, we can't support a bill that shows so well the priorities of the government and the foolish position we are in here to vote for the terms of the budgets that have been approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u26	Mr. President. We'll vote for a bill where child-improvement is being increased in favor of income-low families and the number of those entitled to child reform for more than two thousand, votes for a bill where we'll raise a personal discount over a consumer penance number, votes for reducing insurance bills, which are the most important factors in terms of small and medium-sized enterprises, votes for the bill where we'll give both the upper and lower limit of the tax system the same indicator, a consumer number. All of this is the tremendous amount of equation action that is amazing enough for those who want to increase the balance in society to support. I'll support this bill, and I'll certainly think that it will be an advantage to advance the equation here and meet the low income. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u27	Mr. President. We're here paying a vote for a bill that will lead to the 7.9 billion next year and about 12 billion children's reforms and growth reforms, and the budget for businesses will decrease by 7.9 billion in the next year, and about 12 billion in 2020. To raise a person's discount over a legal standard is a wise and legitimate arrangement. It is a wise and just decision to raise child - rearing severely and to direct them primarily to those in need and in need. It is a wise choice to increase interest rates and to direct them primarily to those in need. This is 7.9 billion in the coming year. This is less than 12 billion in 2020. [[The president calls.]] That is why we should all be united in supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u28	A respectable president. In our vote on this bill, we take sides with some key questions, whether or not to increase the personality discount beyond expected inflation next year. We take a stand to see if we should make up children especially affect those who have a low income while increasing the decrease in the number of those who have become involved. It is certainly an operation designed for further balance, but some do not feel that there is enough to be done. That's how the Conspiracy has suggested that we not allow our expenses to grow around Thirty-five billion to one. No, it has to be placed on top of 24 billion. Thus expenses would not increase by less than 5% but would increase by 8% between years. These are completely irresponsible suggestions for which the Conspiracy has spoken and to save its survival should only increase taxes. They have brought up some 26 billion tax increases, and if the tax returns to 33 billion, 33 billion in new taxes. [[The president calls.]] It's the Conspiracy that's had irresponsible ideas here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u29	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u30	Mr. President. In recent years, the child - reform system has been systematically weakened, and thousands of families have fallen out of the system. The current limit of the decline should be adjusted. It's not until about 300,000 bucks. pay, but people with the median price get no child benefits, since these losses are made even more cruel than they have been in the past few years. The government guide Katrín's Jakobsdóttir in child reforms and in supporting young children in the country is the World Bank. These are the suggestions from the World Bank on child support, which is the money of the poor. Of course, we should look to the Norwegian states, where child support is given to families to match their status with the rest of the non - children.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u31	Mr. President. We're making a decision to raise the child's income criteria. We are making the decision to further lose weight with family members, and we need to make sure that they enjoy the lowest income and loss. We're raising children's improvements to an absolute value of 14% from year to year. It's 1.8 billion. This is done in a way that is primarily to be enjoyed by wealthy families. It is odd that those here who speak most of income equations would object to that proposal and that action by the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u32	Mr. President. House - to - house support has fallen in 2013 to an absolute value of 70%. At that time, the number of families that enjoy it has decreased by 19,000. Government officials said that the United Nations's proposal for raising interest on funding is at the same time that tens of thousands of people are in serious trouble at a difficult housing market. The United States protests the priorities of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u33	Mr. President. Government leaders describe the actions of the government as a marvelous equation. The overall amount of money that was just approved for child reform is actually the same as it was five years ago, before 2013. We're here to agree with 500 points. an increase in personality discount, 500 K. which the public who pay taxes will enjoy. This is the whole equation operation. But what is done for the deportation of the land? The rate of fishing is reduced by more than 4 billion, most of which went to a small number of people who truly have enough. It's a disgrace to this government policy, and it's really lame for people to talk about it as some special equation action and a big step to balance the status of people in Iceland. That's reverse.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u34	Mr. President. It's very simple. We're making a decision here that the income tax of individuals will be 1.7 billion low in the coming year. This is primarily because we are making a decision that a personal discount should be raised more than the existing law. This should be a cause for rejoicing. In addition, as indicated in the Committee to Refuse a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, it has been developed, including in collaboration with the labour market partners, reviewing the income tax system. That's why we're suggesting this value here for only one year. Reexamination of the income tax system includes in reviewing how we manage child development and growth reform and how we use the income tax system in order to be especially supportive of lost ones. This is the current revision, and this is the new year's project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u35	Mr. President. It is in itself refreshing to our peace of mind just before Christmas to come up and be positive for something that this government does. This is certainly an important step. These are laws that weigh on small and medium-sized enterprises, especially on intelligent companies, based on technologies, based on innovations, which are just the articles that we need to overemphasize if we are to pursue a sophisticated future of technological change in the near future. Sadly, this is the only evidence that the government can identify the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u36	Mr. President. We hereby vote for the office of an agent of children, change the law that has not changed much since 1994. Some of the office's being funded, additional projects are being added, including Child council and other factors. What a joy it is to do so! The welfare committee met with full solidarity on this matter, and how happy we are to vote on it here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u37	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The welfare committee for her work on this case, which I consider to be a great improvement, a case designed to strengthen the office of the children's emissary and the role of the agent in keeping better up the data of children who have been important to improve, as well as strengthening the voice of children by a special child council. I loved to hear the discussions that took place in the Hall on this matter, where I heard from all the members of the council who spoke, much joy with this proposal, and a keen interest in getting involved in policy activities as well as children. I think this is an extremely important democracy and celebrates the good solidarity that has developed about the matter at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u38	V.E.G. President. There is much improvement in the children's agent's law. Two. The law states that the Children's U.S. Marshal has a law degree. I was amazed that when the bill was created at the beginning, the agent of children would not have been asked to have any training. It is my opinion that it should be, but I will support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u39	A respectable president. By the legalization of the United Nations Convention on Child's Rights, the Convention, in 2013, the Icelandic government has committed itself to carrying out the terms of the covenant in the laws, governments, and all the areas in which it applies. Here comes the official office of the children's agents. The bill suggests that an agent of children will be given increased duties and responsibilities as well as those aimed at strengthening the position of children in Icelandic society, thus promoting the continuation of the UN Convention on Child Rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u40	President. I'm going to come up here to thank you for this great deal. Thank you very much. Prime Minister and thank you for your work on a welfare committee. When such cases enter the committee, we get to win them into the covenant made up of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u41	President. Here we vote to extend a provisional principle allowing the labour market organisation to make an agreement to compromise the rules of the law for resttime and night working of employees who work on user - controlled personal assistance. The best thing would have been if the Ministry had found a future solution for this work ethic. But it is not that I would like to overemphasize the importance that next year there will be a clear policy on the future work of this important service so that we do not have to return here after a year and accept temporary laws for the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u42	Mr. President. We walk here for a vote, like a cot. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen came up, on temporary requirements of services to disabled people, called MPA services. The commission narrows the original law to a great degree from what it was. It is now confined exclusively to the MPA service, at level 11. The law, and we also cut short the deadlines as parties involved in the case and the Ministry has to correct the failings of the law so that they can fit their services. Because, of course, the basic thing is that those who work in this service have the same rights and same protection for the law as for other employees in the Icelandic labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to mention one thing about the matter that we vote for, that this exception that we are extending turns towards both groups, both those who accept the ministry and those who give it. It is important that the release is inaccessible and more practical. This is essential in both cases, both in order that those who render this service may have a better share in giving it and in caring for their roles and that those who need to accept it will have better interests. Therefore, it is very important that solutions are found so that everyone's rights in this matter are guaranteed. However, because of the nature of the service we are discussing here, the user - controlled personal help, it is obvious that there is a need to go beyond existing environmental protection laws and find common ways to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u44	A respectable president. Here's a bill for changing the labour laws and the method of loyalty and safety of work, i.e. details of the work time of employees who provide user-controlled, personal assistance. This provisional principle has, in fact, been at the time of the test period since the granting of user - controlled personal assistance, which was legalized at the Great General Assembly in spring and became valid October 1. The Agency has not yet been able to arrange for services to be guaranteed in accordance with EU and EU work hours directives, from which there are so many good things to come, so the extension of temporary regulations is required for one year. We would like to encourage the Ministry and the government to make good use of this time, making arrangements that no further provision is needed. There is a lot at stake: rights for those with disability. It is a struggle that can slowly and bite through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u45	Mr. President. We vote on a very important matter, i.e. To commit the agents of the Generals to monitor the places where free-minded individuals are staying. It is a government prison, and it is also a variety of institutions, both government and private. By doing this, we hide an agent under the authority's law to supervise this operation. If a board of administrations and monitoring committees were to hide that office, it is entirely independent of office. By doing this, we validate the United Nations Convention on torture and inhuman treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u46	Mr. President. The piranha welcome this bill in particular. Our core policy is to protect and promote civil rights and democracies. This is the civil rights most important to protect, i.e. that people are not tortured, that they cannot expect to be tortured or inhumanally treated. They are now hiding an emissary of the General Assembly - so people at home understand what it is, then it's the World Council that's supposed to supervise the government, and also in this case, to monitor if the private members of the host have been free-minded. And that this party has on our behalf a check that people are not being treated in an inhuman way or that they are being tortured people who have been subject to freedom. We welcome this case in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u47	A respectable president. I, like the rest of us here, am so glad we're voting on this bill and hoping that as many people pay for it their word. This is a huge matter, though it may be hidden in a short - term letter. OPCAT does not say much, but this is based on a UN contract against torture and other cruel, inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment. With this matter, we hide the agents of the Generals to visit our institutions regularly as peacemakers, in order to prevent brutal or disrespectful treatment from occurring. So this is an enormously important matter. I'm gonna let myself say that I'm very proud to get to vote on this matter here and get to participate in the work about it at the moment. Board of Directors and Control Committee. I especially want to thank you for the cooperation and good work that was being done there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u48	Mr. President. It's a milestone we're reaching. We accept here the monitoring that measures and treatments should be taken against all those who are least allowed in our society to be human and natural, to those who for some reason are deprived of their freedom by the application of public power. There's another part of this bill that I think is also very important that we keep in mind, i.e. Protectors of those who choose to inform an agent of a unfortunate situation in the community. Not only does it make sense to these matters but it is in general, which is extremely important to the U.S. Marshal, the General himself, and all of us, that men can safely consult the agent with their business.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u49	The president who is the first traveller of the matter thanks and thanks. The management and monitoring committee for work on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u50	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing on the confirmation of the framework between Greenland/Darmer, Iceland and Norway of the protection of the hairy population and the management of its fish stocks. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Veturliði Þór Stefánsson, State Department of State and Jóhann Guðmundsson and Baldur P. Erlingsson, from the Department of Professional Railways. The proposal finds the Allegorium document to confirm the framework between Greenland/Dinamer, Iceland and Norway for the protection of the hairy stock and control of its fish populations -
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u51	President doesn't like this harm in the audience. The president asks why. Whether they remain in the hall or walk out, a senator must be quiet.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u52	- that was done in London on June 21, 2018. Contract agreements are expected to change the subject of an Annex to the annual meeting of the EU's annual meeting on the hairy stock if the parties involved in interest agree. Contract negotiations began in 2016 and came to the conclusion of a new three-sided agreement between Iceland, Greenland/Dancing, and Norway on the division of the maximum affordable resources and the climatic arrangements for the conference of officials in June. Wet fishing in the marine region between Greenland, Iceland, and Jan Mayen have been conducted in recent years on the basis of the 2003 three - side agreements made by the two - side agreements of the countries made as well as 2003. The new framework is untimely, but it can be stated on a single basis. The common burden of meeting includes the reduction in total Iceland share from 81% to 80%, the proportion of Norway is reduced from 8% to 5%, and the lot of Greenland is increasing from 11% to 15%. The report shows that the agreement formally confirms that the decision of the total resources per season is based on long-term application policies. Newerations in the contract focus on improving the decision to make a total tablet of February 5 or more of this year and on the rest of the report, I refer to the committee's opinion. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Signed, president of the Committee, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndótttir, second base. Councilmen; Logi Una María, Óskarsdóttir K. Gylfadóttir, Björn Leví of Gjörn, Bjorn, Bjorn, Rósa, Björk, Björn, Gunnarsson, Brynjólfsdóttir, Haraldsdóttir, and Gínar, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u53	A respectable president. I would recommend a proposal for Congress resolution of a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Icelandic and British jurisdiction in 2018. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Veturliði Þór Stefánsson, State Department of State and Jóhann Guðmundsson and Baldur P. Erlingsson, from the Department of Professional Railways. This suggests that the Alduke's warrant for a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Iceland is a well - known jurisdiction in 2018, which was replaced in Thors Have and the June 26, and November 22rd. The contract requires permission of parties to fish seafood in each other's legal history in 2018. The Treaty allows for a mutual warrant for each of the parties to fish the carbons and the Norwegian-islen fjords within the rest of the jurisdiction of 2018. Then, in 2018, there are as many as 1,300 trains of mackerel in English - speaking jurisdiction. According to one report, at the annual meeting of the European Environment Agency and Agriculture Ministers of Iceland and the Faeroe Islands Minister, held in December 2017, there was no agreement between parties on fish fishing and British jurisdiction. A meeting was achieved in January 2018, but the content of the contract differs from the previous agreements in that the peak in the Faulty Fish of the Faulters, compared with 5% of the total salaries in 2018, is 25,000 trains that were previously 30,000. At that time, the number of ships allowed to be caught at a coal hunt at the same time as Faeroe's jurisdiction is increasing from 12 ships to 15. Finally, it was agreed to start work to change the negotiation arrangement with the aim of making a longer-term frame deal. The Commission emphasizes the importance of the provision of negotiations to ensure long-term effectiveness of Iceland's interests. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under the committee's opinion, signed by Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, and why. Councilmen Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Ásgerður from K. Gylfadóttir, Bjöl Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Brondi Haraldsdóttir, Logi Einar Einarsson, Roa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfólfótir, Óskarsdóttir María's daughter, and Þorsteinn Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here and I'd like to check that we had a good call yesterday on the State Department, where this case was handled well for us. I know I've been involved in this kind of vote before, here we're primarily dealing with something already done, the fish being caught in this agreement, but what happens in the months to come has not been established. I just wanted to come up here and actually regret the position that has come up in our relationship with our fine neighbors in the Faeroe Islands and take my mind under and repeat what the committee says in the bottom line of the committee's opinion, i.e.: The committee stresses the importance of the provision of negotiations to ensure long term effectiveness of Iceland's interests. As to this agreement, then, there is a tradition that ministers themselves meet once a year and review the case. I think it's normal to put this into some kind of structured agreement structure that will last for a long time and that a contract committee with government officials will be assigned to add an addition to the agreement. Yesterday we received news that the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Poul Michelsen, had submitted a proposal to cancel the Hoyvík Convention. For a considerable time, the minister has spoken about this, and we have been afraid of price. I understand today's day is the last day of the Faeroes before they go on Christmas holiday and I have to agree to this council proposal or bill, and I don't quite know what it is before the year's tournament to be canceled by the Hoyvík Convention. The reason for this is that the Faeroes agreed to a new fishing legislation, which forbids foreign investments in the fishing industry. According to our Hoyvík agreement, that's a violation of that agreement. It's very unfortunate that we have failed to negotiate with the movers for the continuation of vacation stores with Hoyvík Convention. I still have the hope that this will not be approved at the French Council, but it seems to be a very misleading debate over the Hoyvík Convention in the Faeroe Islands. The point is, in general, that they're losing, that the Icelanders somehow make more money on this agreement, which I think is not at all correct, because our numbers show that even though there is more export from Iceland, we're buying quite a lot of service to the movers. I have strong faith in business relationships, and this little neighboring country almost out in the prom sea has a common interest. I hope so much that the conclusion will be that we will agree to continue our Hoyevík agreement and that these matters, such as we discuss in this council-sense proposal, i.e. how we negotiate the arrival and availability of each other on our fishing grounds can become more stable so that there's no rioting, no breeding 15 minutes before the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u55	A respectable president. There's a 2nd over here. bill to correct changes in medicine laws and laws about surgeons and public health, prescriptions of nurses and midwives, as discussed by the welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a member of the Icelandic Nurses' Association, Iceland's Light Marys Association, Iceland's Medical Association, the surgeon's office, and the National Institute of Health and Health at the University of Iceland. Also, visitors from the European World Health Organization (National Institutes) and gynaecologists, health care of the capital area, as well as agents from the Ministry of Health, came to give us advice and further insight into the matter. There were reports from the American Union of Iceland, the Society of American Child Welfare, the Society of Icelandic Nurses, the University of Akureyri, the Center for Health at the capital, the University of Iceland's Nurses, the National Geologist's Department of Health, the National Law Association, the National Medical Association of Iceland, the National Medical Association of England and Tanja Þorsteinsson, a gynecologist. The objective of the bill, as further explained, is to increase the availability of women to sexual health care, to promote such a service, and to make better use of the professional knowledge of nurses and midwives in the field of service. The bill recommends that nurses and midwives be allowed to prescribe hormonal contraceptives. In accordance with this requirements, it is expected that the minister should agree in accordance with the requirements for allowing nurses and midwives to prescribe the above medicinal products, including for additional studies. Drug Policy Conclusion to 2022, No. 17/146, was approved in March 2017. One of the main objectives of the policy is to increase access to necessary medicinal products. Among the target measures, there is limited right to prescribe certain medications to qualified nurses and midwives. The changes made in the existing bill are in line with an earlier objective and comparable trend that has developed in recent years in neighboring countries. An international comparison of education by midwives in Iceland was presented with the opinion on this committee. Then nurses would already be given much training on pharmacology, and it would not be necessary to expect that much more would be needed in the current studies of the university clinics. A review from the University of Iceland's Nurses reports that new mothers'study will be implemented in the autumn of 2019. In this study there will be a special emphasis on prevention, sexual and female health and contraceptive advice. For nurses and midwives, it was also held that nursing and midwife studies did not ensure the basis for making prescribing decisions and responsible for them. Then there would be insufficient education by nurses and midwives on drug interactions and adverse reactions. It would have to be clear that the prescriber is responsible for the medications prescribed and the responsibility would not be placed on others. According to the surgeon general's review, according to the bill, the surgeon's office should make a decision on the importance, content, content, and implementation of a drug course for midwives and nurses. A better chance of playing a part in such a course would be for qualified educational institutions, such as the medical fields of the university. The committee agrees with the surgeon general's referendum, but it also points out that in a paper with the bill that the decision on emphasis, content, content and conduct of the course should be made in collaboration with the health science field of the university expected to oversee the course. The Committee considers it important that the Ministry of Health ensures a clear role switch between the surgeon and the university, in line with the practice of other health professionals authorized to prescribe drugs. It is important for the university to counter the content of study, while surgeons have a license team and surveillance role. Then the Court's committee will need careful consideration for the implementation and management of the additional training required by nurses and midwives to be provided with a prescription for the prescribed medicinal product. The committee presented the view that there is no compelling need for the change mentioned in the bill. In this regard, it was noted that the status of the sexually transmitted disease is better in this country than in most of the country, and the rate of premature pregnancies in the youngest age group had the lowest in the north. In addition, there is a decrease in the incidence of pregnancy fractures, especially in the youngest age group. It was also noted that hormonal contraceptives were not asymptomatic and that prescriptions required considerable expertise. The committee was also toyed with the better initial steps in making room for prescriptions possible for other less basic medications. It was then noted to the Committee that if there were to be a permission for nurses and midwives to prescribe hormonal contraceptives, it would have to be restricted to drugs that did not require any specific intervention. In this regard, the committee points out that there is already a great amount of pharmacology taught by university nurses. Also, midwives and nurses are often closely associated with women who would like to prescribe hormonal contraceptives. If the additional study required to be prescribed for the prescribed product should be prepared in a manner expected in a bill report, the criteria are the loyalty required to improve the field of work and responsibility of the nurses and midwives. The Court's committee calls on the need to give careful consideration to the implementation and oversight of the additional training required by nurses and midwives. Among the other viewpoints observed on the Committee's discussion, there was an efficient way to increase the availability of contraception in young people that, as in a few neighbouring countries, it was being subsidized, so that costs do not interfere with their use. The Commission agrees with this view and directs it to the Ministry of Health to consider that possibility. It was also noted that there is a complete review of the medicinal product laws and that there is a better way to make this change in relation to that review. The committee also tore up the view that the bill would go too far, and it would be appropriate to go further, including by allowing a prescription for medicines used for home birth and for postnatal or subsequent breast-feeding infections. In some cases, it may be a great improvement for midwives who are most in contact with pregnant women and new-born mothers to be able to prescribe these medicines directly. The Commission does not agree with these viewpoints and points out that the step taken here is the wise first step and it is better to obtain experience with available literature to prescription for oral contraceptives before taking any further step. In addition, it was noted that, in line with these increased prescribing sources, it would be a normal step to allow midwives and nurses to prescribe certain tools, since the professional knowledge of the branches would often be higher in these classes than in the number of times. the prescribers. The Commission agrees with these opinions in part and points to the Ministry of Health to see how these professions can be authorized to prescribe certain types of relief tools. Finally, the committee claims that the step proposed by this bill involves a considerable increase in the responsibilities of nurses and midwives. The Commission aims at the Ministry of Health to monitor the implementation of the regulations of the bill and to consider in the future whether there is a reason for experience in providing nurses and midwives with permission to prescribe more classes of drugs, or whether there is reason to crowd out the authority. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. Ásmundur Friðriksson and the Guðjón of Brjánsson Brukánsson were absent from the hearing. Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Árnadóttir Kolbönóttir were away from the case, but publications were considered to be in accordance with the 4th - mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. In view of this, Halldóra Mogensen, Kristjánsdóttir Signý Kristoffsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Wilsamur of the Year, and Árnadóttir Colbrönnadótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u56	A respectable president. When the case was recommended in my day, I expressed great joy in the fact that this was done. I must admit that I was a little excited to read the commission because at the beginning I didn't realize what the Committee's position was, so, of course, I was very happy when the committee came to the conclusion of accepting the bill unchanged, despite the fact that in the bill, there are some disorders that some sources may have found. I'd like to ask you two questions. On the one hand, I don't quite understand what kind of aid is being spoken of. Are we talking about an aid in nursing, or something related to birth, or something like that? On the other hand, I'd like to ask. paritaprevir The Signý Kristjánsdóttir's compliment on whether or not something further has been discussed. I can see in the Committee that some members thought this was an overdose. I specifically tore it in my speech and have done so before in the matter of proof when counseling a pregnant woman is advised by a doctor, in fact, it is advisable for them to take the rest of the last few weeks, but it is still necessary for a doctor to write up on it. I think it's really a matter of principle, as far as I can tell by the next time I look at it, because in 19. The law on health care professionals that I know is not the law that falls on this site and we're not discussing them here, is generally referred to as proof of health care professionals, but a doctor's certificates are referred to in the Regulation. I just want to know if this feature of the committee had anything to do with this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's joke for the questions. She's asking for help. The tools used are linked to pregnancy, can be associated with pregnancy, breast-feeding, and birth. I may not really know their names, but these are the tools available to this town. A Witness's comment on the aid tools. It was not addressed to the Committee, so I have no further information. But we talked about how we could, or if there were reasons to try to make it even more clear, and as indicated in the Committee opinion, we wanted to see how this application would be done before we were going to direct it - or as it says in the opinion of: "The step suggested by this bill is a significant increase in responsibility...•and direct it to the Ministry of Health to observe the procedure of the bill and to consider that in the future if it could provide nurses and phototypes more fully to prescribe more medication, in particular, as we are thinking about and were talking about the Committee to help, or breast-feeding, or otherwise than we thought that it would be possible to find that this would be possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u58	A respectable president. Because it's so much of a heart thing I feel I have to come up here and say I'm really happy about it. I would also like to point to what is stated in the committee's opinion that the education of midwives in Iceland is very early in international comparison, and I know it is. Here, this professional midwives have finished their first nurse test before their profession adds, even though it is not defined as a master's grade, it is certainly the value of such a course by the study of the nurse. I think it's very important that we take this step. As a matter of fact, I would have liked to see us go even further in these matters. Then I refer to the standard practice in the United States, where nurses take a personal study of nursing and then have the right to write out drugs within certain limits. I've been watching this a little bit in the United States, I know one of the nurses who learned here, and I took this additional training in the United States. I think that in view of the position we have in the medical system, we need nurses, we need more medical staff over their heads, it is reasonable to look to those who are educated in these activities to give them increased opportunities for career advancement with increased education and increased responsibilities. I also think that this may include some medical instruments, such as those mentioned here. It's the midwife herself, and I thank you. A senator for the answer to the aid devices, but I imagine that it is the midwife himself who knows the woman best and her position, and then the most reasonable thing is that a healthcare professional has permission to care for her mostly but is not running over to the nearest office and has some doctor write up on something that really doesn't really know the circumstances of the woman. With this, I am not minimizing doctors or their education, which, of course, is also extremely important to the health system. But I, as I have said before, express my support for the bill and that it goes through this way. But I would also like to encourage all of us to pay close attention to how these changes anger and, with the greatest concern, may be whether it is reasonable to take further steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her speech, Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's jealousy. As the senator came on, we are making progress here and we are making a big change. The Senator mentioned in his talk the arrangement in many parts of the United States. Now I know that in many places where it is, a prescription is given to nurses or to those who are called medical assistants, the name of the English Physician ensitant, the checks are still under the responsibility of the physician, who is responsible for the institution of the person's work, so the ultimate responsibility is not the same with that health worker, as we are actually expecting here by these checks. There's some difference. But I completely agree with what. A senator in that it may in time be wise to expand these sources, perhaps by means of the arrangement. A senator mentioned and we know from many states in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u60	A respectable president. I don't think the counter-sponsibly hid a direct question. But I agree, of course, that we need to be careful about these matters and be very careful about them. But I want to, because of what. A member is also a doctor, giving me one example that I allow to call the absurdness of the Icelandic medical system, when an elderly woman in a nursing home has her legs and needs to be called nurses, and all are in a sense that blood clots are very likely to occur. Doctors respond by administering anticoagulant medicinal products, but it is normal after the weekend, several days later, to have a shoot to prove whether a blood clot has been involved. The elderly woman is then taken down an ambulance to Domus Medical, where a giant system is used to verify that a blood clot has been involved, even if it has already been given a blood thinner and therefore it is treated symptomatically. Now I am told that there is a very small, convenient device that a nurse in the United States--I'm sorry, a respectable president, I understand that in English it is an English term called ◯nise perfracter wrote, I don't quite know what would be an Icelandic word for it, but there's some advanced education - would be in the trunk of the car and could only check the patient's position if the person got into it. In Iceland, however, we have not even been able to invest in such devices in a nursing home where 50 or 100 people live, but instead, we place the cost of ambulances and other activities. It's just one example, maybe not quite connected, but anyway. The point I brought here and the reason why I'm so into my favor that we're looking at this further is a system economy. How do we render the minimum amount of service at our expense? There I think we have only a considerable amount of opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. The senator, in principle, came into it this way whether it could not be hidden from nurses and even from experiences of other health - care professionals that today are encouraged into some of our old - fashioned systems. I think it's quite right for the senator to know that there are many opportunities there. In particular, in many areas of the health system, it is such that prescriptions of doctors are needed for aid tools that are very much higher in their nature as nurses who work with their underlying patients are expected to have a much better knowledge of the use of the tools and what tools will be most suitable for the individual. That is why I have been accompanied by at least an increasing supply of authority for nurses. So, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, uh, um, um, um, uh, um, um, uh, uh, um, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, um, uh, uh, uh, um, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, um, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, um, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, um, uh, uh, um, uh, uh, uh, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, uh, uh, um, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, um, uh, It is more complicated than it can be spoken of in a two - minute answer. But it would certainly be beneficial if we had access to such equipment in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u62	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator agrees that there are opportunities in many health - care systems and that you might do even better, but I still admit that I think our health system is good. We tend to talk it down too much, but in all international measures, I think there are good health programs, even though there are very many opportunities to do better. I may be special, I think that's exactly what I'm thinking. A candidate in his talk pointed out where he might be able to adapt, and perhaps the main purpose is to provide better service, so that patients do not have to go between positions or places to get relief from their illness. I support the committee in what it says about prescribing tools, and I think it's a good reason for the Ministry to consider it. We pay close attention, and hopefully we will soon have the opportunity to make further adjustments in this regard, primarily for the good of patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u63	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Economic and Business Committee's Committee on billing measures against the financial resources and the funding of terrorism. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted with representatives of the Department of Justice, Iceland's Federal Bank, the head of state tax, the Department of Economic Affairs, the Neythal Office, the tax investigator, the National Accounting and the Organization of Industrial Affairs. Many reports were received, and many followed them by installing the committee. With the bill, the plan is to establish new overall laws on the use of money and the funding of terrorism that replace the law of No. 64/2006 on the same subject. With the new law, the plans include In response to a report by the international FAFF on the assessment of Iceland's defenses against the financial resources and funding of terrorism published in April. and revealed some weaknesses in Icelandic legislation. The bill's report carefully explains how its individual articles are intended to respond to FAFF indications. With the bill, the so - called fourth - called embezzlement directive of the European Union takes up in Icelandic rights, along with a number of features of the fifth money-tempered system, as per the 57th paragraph. The bill. This point will be further dismissed in later view. In the reviews received by the Committee as well as in the hearing of visitors in her meetings, there were indications on the bill, and the committee has consulted the Ministry on their response, as it were. A memo received from the Ministry taking a position on all comments and comments received from others. In these comments and indications, there was a common harmony among all, so to speak, that much effort was made, especially since Iceland's reputation and credibility on a global scale was severely delayed by Iceland on FAFF's list of noncooperative countries. The point was, of course, that serious comments were made on the part of FAFF in the legal setting here. In effect, we've been on a yellow card, if not nearly an orange card, for a year soon. Therefore, it is important in the opinion of the stakeholder that this case be fulfilled. The Marshal will proceed according to Article 4. The bill makes risk assessment that includes analysis and assessment of the risks of money fraud and terrorism and leads to reduced risk. [[For example: Terrorism?]] - Yeah, this is a very technical problem we have here. - It's 1st mg. This article is an obligation to inform the government of the necessary information needed to make a risk assessment. There was some discussion, including Whether there was any reason for a state - of - law obligation to gather information that the governor wishes, they were not already humiliated. Suggestion for word change so that the obligation to produce data in the arrangement would be irreprehensible to criticism that it was too burdensome. The Committee has an understanding of the importance of providing the information needed for the risk assessment by the head of the state, but in general the sizes of the individual business accounts, as well as the total business value of a high-risk state, the range of currency exchanges, the sizes of the individual business accounts, etc. Based on information provided by the Committee. The committee feels that there is no need for material adjustments in Article 4. The bill, but it indicates that the government that the Marshals want information from their power of information is not immediately available, as far as possible and as the law allows. When the day comes to see the need to change the law on this matter when it comes to its implementation, either the government's sources of information will be increased or the government's obligation to obtain information that the State's Marshal wants for space will be considered in consultation with the established authorities. There's a warrant for the continuation of data between the official Rapporteurs. Of course, there are quite a number of public members, but in their review to the Committee, the tax investigator even indicated that the government's office was in charge of this matter. that the office has received a number of tips from the local labour oce for suspicion of a tax offense that had woken up in the passage of this office in its introductions of announcements. Even if in some cases the office did not feel the need to start a formal investigation, it would often still be a reason for forwarding such a mission to the head of the tax to consider. It was pointed out that wording was 40 C.E. The bill and its report would be unclear whether such continuation was permitted by the tax investigator. As a result of this discussion, the Committee discussed it a great deal, and the committee believes that the bill's value does not result in a change in valid rights in this respect. Therefore, an tax investigator must still be allowed to forward the above-mentioned tips to the tax head of the tax, as well as to the head of state taxation, for appropriate consideration. It was also noted by the Committee that it was a burden for a narrow group of Icelandic workers to list people who had sales or metals or stones to d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-r. 36 st. The bill. For this reason, the Commission would want to justify their understanding that the registration warrants only the role involved in dealing with such metals and stones and not to the crafts as such. The committee may make a few adjustments, I'm not going to trace it in detail, but in terms of definition of 3. gro, including where the committee suggests that instead of the money bankers' banks, the term will be used to refer to the U.S.A.'s highest-payers and not to be used in the concept of the inter Bank trade between financial companies specified in Article 11. The proposal of the Ministry suggests that the definition of the definition will be replaced by a modification of the party's notifications and that the definition will take place accordingly. Then we will see what was discussed at the end of the year, the adjustment of 23rd paragraph. about the reported surveillance party, and may not be a reason to call it back, but it was a tax investigator's opinion that it would be necessary for any doubt that the governor of the tax was still to report suspected tax fraud to an tax investigator, all of which is equal to the absolute primary violation of money. So all such notifications of the current law still apply between the Rapporteurs. There is also a change in the decision of the party as determined by 43.g. The committee gave the reference work that needs to be more accurately defined by the Member States according to Article 1. 43. g. The bill. The Commission proposes a change to make it clear that the directive covers the monitoring institutions under European financial monitoring legislation, as well as the European Council Bank. Based on the information provided by the Committee, the Council Regulation and the Council of 2015/847 will be implemented on information that should be followed by the transfer of funds via a Regulation that will be supported by the Council of 56.g. The bill. In order to indicate that violations against certain aspects of the Regulation may be involved in administrative fines, the Commission suggests that appropriate recovery is added to the list of 1 mg. 46. g. The bill. According to 57th. The bill includes the legislation on the implementation of the Council of Europe and the Council of 2015/849, called the Fourth Sports Directive. According to the second issue of this article, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2018/843 is also partly introduced in part by the fifth embellishment directive. The aforementioned directive was adopted in the EEA Convention on December 5th of December. The Commission has been informed that a foreign legal committee has granted a minister of foreign affairs permission to defuse government arrangements in advance of decisions made by the joint EEA Committee No. 249-2522/018 with the bill so that the aforementioned directive can be implemented, as per Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The latter directive has not been adopted in the EEA Convention, i.e. The fifth embezzlement directive, and thus it is not really the induction of its regulations, even though it is taken up materially in Icelandic legislation. So the commission suggests that the second issue of the 57th par. The bill will be removed. In a memo to the Committee, the Ministry contributes to a change in the wording of 4 mg. 46. g. the bill, which allows it to be stated that the management guilty of the reported party can be determined as a percentage of the quality in which the legislator is part of the kit, despite the amount limit recommended in 3mgs. The memo shows that the requirement for the improvement of fractures for another kit is not required for 3.mg. Fifty-niner. Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2015/849 and is therefore recommended to remove it from the arrangement. The committee agrees with the proposal and suggests an appropriate change in 4 mg. 46. g. A change was then made in the matter of speech deadlines. The review of UNECE points out that there is no basis for a restricted definition of 1st case 1st. 52. g. Therefore, due to the decisions that may be made, judicial cases may be made to invalidate certain articles of the law. The committee agrees with the indication and suggests an appropriate change. Finally, the government tax manager pointed in his comments including on the right to specify 39th gr. Among the rules referred to in paragraph 1. Fifty-five. The bill to ensure that the silence of those in the management group, or to obtain information through the operators in the operating group, was maintained despite the efforts of the operator. The committee agrees with this and suggests that 39 percent of the population is in progress. will be added to the request for rules. Other changes proposed by the committee are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir signed this opinion in advance that she intends to explain in a talk. Others who write are thought to be President Óli Björn Kárason, Director Brubbur Níelsson's son, Þorsteinn the Víglundsson of Wazlund, Brutish the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Elíasdóttir Furfjörður, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u64	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to legalise a change in the terms of cost taxes, i.e. validation dates, non-employment of international flight taxes, etc. 697. The committee was contacted by representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and representatives from the head of the state tax, as well as representatives of Istavia ohf. By means of the bill, a new set of corrective measures will be established on the merit tax after the initial decision, i.e. after the initial decision of a valuable tax in each run-in period. Based on the financial and economic committee proposals of values dates in terms of supplementary taxes, including A growth decision in situations where debt is made on the same tax change. At the same time, the bill is intended to further explain the taxpayer of international airports in Iceland, which is thought to be necessary to maintain harmonization with neighboring countries. It is taken out of all doubt that certain services at international funerals and that their passengers are counted worthy of a valuable supplementary tax. The bill also adds back-up sources, re-assigning and re-establishment of the value tax and correctable access to taxation due to human vehicles for use in travel services. There is also a clearer set of sources of foreign enterprises for reimbursement of cost taxes due to the purchase of goods and services in this country for resuscitation or final uses, which prevents possible competitive domestic disorders. Finally, the bill has made several minor changes in the law or in addition to the laws aimed at increasing clearly and further definition of its specific requirements, including As a consequence of the registration of the party's credit sheet and the obligation of the person who has been dropped from a valuable tax file to return taxes to the state's funds. The bill is late due, which most of the economy and business committees comment, but it is considered important that it succeeds before the end of the year. In view of this, it was not possible for a financial and business committee to send the bill for the main stakeholders. Since the bill is primarily aimed at increasing the clarity of the law on the value tax and is not burdensome, the greater portion is right in paying the bill's route. The bill was presented to the public and to the stakeholders in an open -label consultation with the 19◯25 advisers. No. No. No. The report of the 23rd - November Association of Travellers describes the joy of being described by regulations 4 and 12. The bill. It is the source of travel services for importing taxes due to high-level vehicles and the more specific regulations on reimbursement tax to foreign companies, as I did earlier. The changes lead to a more competitive position between national and international tourism providers. Among the changes proposed to Article 9. it has to be allowed to reduce the weight growth that has been collected as a result of miscalculation of the value tax, but such a warrant has not been established before. At a meeting of the Committee, representatives of the head of the head of the Treaty pointed out that it was in line with the same opinion as when we could eliminate the growth and stress of the book. Law on Valuable Credits, No. 50/1988, especially since both were on hand of the head of state tax after a change in the arrangement for the collection of public pay takes effect for a year to come. Of the text of the 9th paragraph. However, the bill, as well as the explanations in its report, can be assumed that conditions for the deposition of logistic growth should be stricter than those of 6 mg. Twenty-seven. worth the taxes. The majority agree that it would be difficult to look at different factors in terms of shrinking growth due to the miscalculation of the value tax and stress due to the same separation, as there is a comparable penal law in each case and their collections, as well as the decision of decomposition, at the same party. Therefore, the largest part is justified in implementing a taxpayer's license to look to the same or similar viewpoints when it comes to making a decision on delinquency of either product, to farm growth, or stress, due to miscalculation of the value tax. Mr. President. According to the above, a greater proportion of the committees contributes to the agreement than under the opinion of writing, as well as to Óla Björn Kárason. The residue of Braun the son of Níelsson, Þorsteinn the Víglundsson of Wazlund, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sigmundur the son of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and A Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u65	A respectable president. I have no material comments to this bill, and I am, as shown in the case of the individual. A senator and an executive, Óli Kárason, son of Kamri, on the committee's opinion and supporting the case. However, I come up to correct only the hard feelings found in a committee program more about the lateness of this issue. I think it reflects a lack of respect for executive authority over the council. It is clear that the matter was discussed in the preparation and presentation of the Governing Body. Then, in August, he asked me to consult the Board of Directors. and the Commission, the Ministry, in this case, has actually taken quite a time to get the case to the council, but then the council intends to complete it almost unconcerned, so the commission actually gave no time to review the matter of any particular difficulty. I don't think it's a good job, and it's what I'm worried about. I feel like this is happening over and over. The efforts of the Council of Government, which is a fine price, to increase the consultation in the earlier stages of preparation should not result in the loss of the time needed for the council to review matters carefully. We have far too many cases of accidents that have occurred in the legislation of this country, including the U.S.A. Because of the hostilities of the time that the council has had for its work, the new Council is taking up a consultation course before matters may go well with the council. If she's going to be with the result of the fact that the council's just gonna be clocked for the project, it's a bad idea that I know, and I hope we won't see the repeated events like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u66	V.E.G. President. Today is the next meeting of this fall council for Christmas break. I've already been in this year probably four times in this chair to find that part of my inquiry since February 20, 2000. to the social and prospective paediatric minister has not been answered. It was answered in part on May 24. What was left behind was the second part of the inquiry: Who bought 3,600 apartment apartment stores and paid for that.? What individuals? Which company? Who did you own this company? I haven't done that, Madam President, and I'll be corrected if I'm wrong, that from the President's chair had a request from the Supreme Court. A minister of time to answer this inquiry, but the situation is now that he and his people are apparently trying to squeeze out of Pernon protection a proper position on this inquiry. [[The president calls.]] Human protection has already declared its neutral stand, allowing this information to be published. Madam President. I've been polite so far, but I now insist that this disrespect for Congress and nation will be stopped and I'll be able to find the answer to my legitimate questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u67	V.E.G. President. I come up here in the same business as now. paritaprevir It's the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson. Requesting the highest order. The president will help us find a way to get the answers to this matter. Some answers have arrived, but some of them remain. With the same reasoning as the night. In the preceding talk, I cannot understand why this is not possible in the way it should go. It's a 15-day deadline for this kind of inquiry. Then, in May, some part of it came with some unexplained postponement of a further answer, so we ask for assistance, chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u68	V.E.G. President. I'm coming in for a speech or two. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. As far as I can see from the documents next, the inquiry will be forwarded on February 26th. and, under the principle of administrative legislation, such requests should be answered within 15 days. The answer that comes from the highest. Social Affairs then comes on May 24, 2018, late, after the cloth and the disc, let me tell you. The answer to the question asked was not: How many of the most important assets were sold each year by the Substitute Bank (U.S.I.A.)? Where were those possessions? What was the total price each year? And in another place, who were the merchants? Information for individuals and, on the other hand, about enterprises and their holdings. Personal protection has given the answer, stating that the matter is not within their reach. Let us remember that behind these are 3,600 apartments and 3,600 families who lost their homes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u69	Madam President. I come up here to agree with what has been said about this important matter. I'm reminded of a substantial amount of money, one of 57 billion, and it's perfectly normal for a state of transpiration to sell these 3600 apartments. I don't know why it's taking so long. There is no other way to conclude that there is something hidden here. That's why it's very important to follow up on the case, and I'm impressed. A president to help us in this vital request. That's what happened to you. Of course, many families are behind those assets, and it is a clear requirement that families also know who acquired these possessions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u70	President. As we know, there is far too much need for ministers to arrive late and badly to respond to inquiries and not meet their obligations in such matters. But no problem is involved in this matter of delays; strange answers or incompetentness; and the strange fact that for some reason the Ministry of Social Affairs seems to avoid giving information about who has bought property, who has been paid to buy property from this public agency. Why, Mr. Honorable President? Why might that be so? I'm not talking about now when the case has come up with a Persian protection, and it has declared neutrality in it and in effect authorized its release. We must ask for answers from the President on what would be involved in these delays and that the president would take advantage of the immediate efforts of a reformer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u71	V.E.G. President. As I said before, it's probably the fourth or fifth time I'm coming up here looking for President's attention that this speech will be answered. The government now has its policy, and in fact, it is in the Treaty, to increase the way of Generalis. That's why I must ask for the highest. I'm sure the president will agree that my business will be answered. If my suspicion is right to be waiting for Perlon protection to give the Ministry a more practical answer so that the case can be swept under a blanket, I have to say that if it is the result, there will be a way Perone protection can be put down with a man and a mouse that same day. If that's the way it is, it's the highest. President, that there is an acceptable payment from the government at any given time on the information that remains, we are in trouble. Now I'm looking for a president once again, and this time, as I said at my first appointment in the platform, I demand that this information be made public, already.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u72	A respectable president. I come up here to say that it would be good if the President explained this matter. Of course, I'm well aware that the Society's Department of Social Services has received the issue of the presiding committee and has therefore had access to the information that this information has been received at the appropriate time but is not published because the council is not sure if it can be published. Therefore, rather than taking this part here, it might be nice to conclude that the Presidency Committee would consider how the information that could be published has been published years ago by the Ministry of Social Affairs. I know the Minister of Social Affairs is eager to publish all the information that can be published.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u73	V.E.G. Madam President. I want to come up here and agree with what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson stone, wondering how it works for the council. V.E.G. One minister before me referred to the presiding committee, and you ask yourself: " Is it necessary for anyone to have access to answers by sitting on the presiding committee? Of course, I don't think that answer is good enough. On February 24, we were shocked. The senator's request has been made, and it has been made to due an appointment of 15 days. The answer from the highest. A minister may not be sufficient, and you wonder why he has to wait here and beg for answers in this important matter. These include 57 billion, 3,600 apartments, and 3,600 families who lost their homes. [[The president calls.]] There's no information about who bought and at what rate. [[The president calls.]] As others have said, I feel that the president needs to assist us in the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u74	Madam President. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation mentioned earlier that the matter was at home on the Presidency Committee. The matter has been recorded, so we are looking for the heads of Congress for help on the case. This information is very important. If we think of the families in the back, no doubt someone would have wanted to buy the apartments they lived in but had to leave because of the requirement of an apartment loan. So it is perfectly normal for this matter to come to the surface, who purchased these possessions. I must say, this is not an isolated situation, Madam President, when it comes to intelligence. For example, I have repeatedly requested information on the sale of Anion Bank and the financial benefits of a government fund. There are 23 billion underdeveloped assets, and it is very difficult to obtain the properties of these assets. [[The president calls.]] So this is not unique. I'm asking the President to help us, because this is a very important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u75	Madam President. Iceland's topic has been very intense in recent weeks, especially after it was found that the company needed an emergency loan from government funds, in fact, a loan that had already been granted them early in the fall, but it was sought for the legal rights and meetings a few weeks ago. It is clear that most people were surprised by the seriousness of the company's situation, that the company was actually in want of payment. They no longer enjoy credit from their business bank and had to search for the means of government funds in order to actually pay back, as shown in the discussion. This is particularly serious because a company owns a government that operates in private rights in post-mail service, while it is in a largely competitive manner at the same time. Therefore, it is urgent that there is both a good separation between the company's private rights and then the competitiveness, as well as an inevitable number of opinions when a government fund has to run in this way to prepare a company's balance. It is as if this serious business situation had caught everyone off guard, including those who had the best to know about. Refers to the advisers who deal with the business, the Ministry of finance and the Transport Service, as well as to the Rapporteurs who monitor the activities. The problem of the operation is attributed to a major loss of a competitive international service, worth keeping in mind: all-in competition, especially because of the increased number of packages from China, which the company claims to have lost a lot of losses. At the same time, however, it is undisputed that there has been a large profit from the company's private rights, profits with the government's approval for subsidies on the loss of another company's activities. Iceland is one of the most widely known textbooks of all the unscrupulous aspects of the State's monopolis in the individual sectors of industry. The main focus of the company's management over the past few years seems to have been to support the increased need for private service. When surveyed, there is no evidence of any extra emphasis on the promotion, no emphasis on the management of the society, despite the fact that the management and administration should have been aware that there was a direct result. On the contrary, more than 100 social values have increased since 2014, at the same time, and it can be claimed that there was a significant decline in business. Therefore, the maintenance and responsibility of the political administrations and members of the community on its business seems to have been a major failure. In fact, this is another example of how undesirable it is for government companies to be controlled by political governments. It is far too seldom that some appropriate conditions, the qualifications of the directors govern such governments, but that is where the party card is more than anything. During this time, the Society has spent some 3 billion dollars. in investments, including in a number of competitive schemes to try to support the business, but those investments seem to have yielded no results. On the other hand, because of insufficient separation of private rights and competitive conflict, there is a complaint about subjugation and innuendo, and so on. In fact, there were a number of people who eventually saw themselves forced at the beginning of the last year to drive the company into a special agreement on how it would function in the future. Governments have not dealt with the underlying problem of society. The apparent lack of control over its activities makes you feel that the ball has been thrown at each other constantly, i.e. The Ministry of Education, the Department of Transport and the Post and Communications Agency. In the meantime, the company was on the run. This problem should not be surprising, and in fact it had been repeatedly warned that such an outcome might occur. What I'm worried about in this context is that we're here in hand with a bill to legalize significant changes in the mail service where the society's exclusive rights will be taken away without seem to have been adequately addressed on the company's huge business problems, separateing between the process that is now to begin competition and the accumulated management halls. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Three Questions: Has the Minister allowed analysis of the impact that the mail service bill will have on Iceland's account, by the law? [[The president calls.]] How is the loss of the public service after the right of the exclusive court to be removed? [[The president calls.]] Would it be possible to establish a special transport system for mail distribution to further open up the competitive environment throughout the country when the exclusive rights are taken away? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u76	Mr President would like to speak to you as he pleases. Assemblymen during a scheduled public speaking period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u77	A respectable president. About the first question why. It is important to bear in mind that one of the main purposes of the bill is simply decommissioned by the government's exclusive rights on letters of under 50 grams that the government has committed to this Iceland to. This will finally open up competition in this country in the part of the mail market that has fallen under the exclusive rights of which all other European countries have chosen to go. The second main purpose of the bill is then to ensure that, as the government chooses to define it at any given time, it is still a guarantee of the so - called public service. In the base, all services are aimed at ensuring all minimal services and the rate of post-implicating at an allowed price. The cost of Iceland's e-mail costs due to the services and recovery of these costs is fundamental to Iceland's management. Thus, during the preparation of the mail bill, the National Institute of Economics at the University of Iceland was instructed to identify the project in November 2016 to assess the cost of e - mail services and to report to the Agency in June 2017, which was proposed as a basis for the preparation of the bill, i.e. That analysis. It can also be seen that assessments of the impact of the bill are complex because of considerable uncertainty about the future and the development in which letters decrease rapidly and even faster than people had anticipated and quite uncertain how the trend will be in the packages both within the country and abroad. So there is a need for the law to include a significant flexibility, and I believe it is in the bill I have submitted for the council. The goal of making a service agreement is to evaluate what the State is willing to pay to maintain a certain level of service and then to determine what the need will be. It must be remembered that electronic communication and electronic services are being received by standard mail, and there is considerable uncertainty, as mentioned earlier, through the development of the packages. The bill covers a wide range of lines involving mail, so I answer how to deal with the loss, and clearly to Iceland's operations, not least. In this context, it is important to consider that this is an introduction to the European Directive, where there is scope for implementation and has been available for many years. The loss in a service contract between state and Iceland is expected to be taken care of. He is thought to be in serious trouble that Iceland's market budget is set for different service levels for the coming year. The first one would probably be 2020. The government as a contract would review these calculations and produce changes according to incident. Thus there will be a projection of cost for the next year, suggesting a basic government decision to buy a certain level of service from the company next year. This leads to an increase in awareness, both for government expenses as well as for society's affairs. After a year's work, there will be an assessment of how this project has been carried out, both in terms of adaptation and payment to increase or decrease, as well as the costs for the next one and so on. Whether to ensure a minimum level of service against a given contract or, for example, the government can decide with this arrangement. a set of maximum financial contributions that governments would be willing to contribute at any given time and adapt their service levels to that. This is the arrangement of agreement and payment set up at the Ministry that has begun the process. However, in terms of transport and the Ministry of Transport for one thing, uncertainty over the implementation of all services for the users of mail services in Iceland and comparable uncertainty about the costs of the Icelandic government to ensure the desired level of services mentioned in this service contract will be met, at least before other alternatives are available, such as invitations on one or more services. An invitation to the types of mail services is not considered as a practical option for the next year, as shown in the bill. It is also important to get a market response to the changes in post-mail situation in the decommissionment of private rights. The postmarked markets, such as collection, classification, distribution, are also to be identified as a potential surface on healthy competition. The nature of the case, according to the development of the postmarket and the related issues of Iceland's e-mail etc. No doubt during the coming year or perhaps even years, the council will catch up. Of course, it would be preferred that all services be carried out on clean market users, these countries exist in Europe. This becomes the Ministry Championship, however unrealistic that long - term goal may seem at the moment. The other side of the case is that the Department of Transport and Division does not take the stock in the company, does not order its control, determines the organization's policies, and does not have authority or authority on business or investments. These are some things that are relevant to the Ministry of finance and are important in this discussion. A new bill that mail law is now at the council, like what it is. A senator came in. It naturally sets a set framework for the postal services to come. Its implementation allows governments considerable scope to adapt the needs of society, technology, demand and payment of the General Assembly. However, the bill does not change the current responsibilities between the advisers. It falls into the centre of the Ministry, which will take possession of Iceland at any given time to be responsible for the union's management and management of the organisation and its management of the predictable changing circumstances and challenges. [[The president calls.]] It has been said that the Ministry of finance has started a variety of jobs in connection with Iceland's affairs, and we hope that this approach will lead to a more efficient and more efficient process that will have its part in suggesting a decrease in possible state-of-the- future global growth for the changed arrangements.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u78	Again, the president reminds us of a specific talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u79	Madam President. Iceland's post is very serious. It does not belong to anyone, but it should not be surprising. But Iceland's post has been very serious for years. In fact, it was for over a decade. V.E.G. The transport secretary speaks of uncertainty as a result of the development of letters and packages, but this so-called uncertainty has been evident for at least A decade and you can get on the Internet and see a discussion about this company. So the uncertainty is not really uncertain. Governments have just not responded. There seem to have been some attempts to improve the interests of this official community, but it also seems that some of the government's actions have rather increased its problem. In the past decade, it has also been a minimum of a consideration for the government's competitiveness to see if the government's government, Iceland founded etc., may have used some of the financial resources it receives from the state into business or property belonging to partners in competitive business. During the days, the director of Iceland's e - mail appeared in the press after more than a portion of the legal committee had prepared their suggestions on borrowing for this group, some 1,500 million. K. He said that if the government's emergency loan, which is a part of the Generals' approval of a final travel of funds, the company will be replaced by wind for now. But, Madam President, in spite of this massive financial burden, the company is hardly able to repay the loan, the director says that immediately next year it will appear as early as possible. I must say, Madam President, that I am very worried about this position and more than that, I also am very worried about the failure of the government, which is to care for the financial resources of our entire population. I'm worried that the same executives who have been running this company all this time, at least. In the last decade, we are assigned to proceed through the steering wheel. [[The president calls.]] I'm concerned that we, who are expected to monitor our institutions, our companies, are made to agree with unbridled funds to a company that is still being controlled in the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u80	Madam President. Thank you. the advocate of this discussion. I can agree very much with what he recorded in his history about the problems this arrangement has created and the suspicions that the activities of this important business on the market have created. Basically, I'm looking at this so that we follow exactly the same trend that has been for a long time in our part of the world, in the North, where the amount of mail has fallen substantially. We have been hired here to have the company develop in a way that they have not had to intervene, with public funds, because of the government's obligations and not the company's minimum postal service is being fired in this country. I think that's basic. I reiterate with this discussion here at work. The budget board, but not financial fees that could be concluded from the last speaker's words, we covered the procedures on the table, and on this occasion I want to commend the executives and the management of Iceland's mail for the actions they are taking. The main issue is this, a respectable president: The way the Senate deals with the new bill to legalize the mail service that is entering the council and what policy plans will be established there. I'm picturing in every detail that we're going to continue with Iceland as some of the senior mail companies in this country, but a variety of post office services can be offered. I must say, a respectable president, that I need more discussions in order to agree with the Supreme Court. The secretary of transportation and rural management when he says that it is not possible to go out of the way. It may well be that this is not exactly the time, but I could well imagine that a moving company on the general market, which could offer to a certain part of the mail service, to ensure minimum deliveries across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u81	Madam President. We'll discuss something very important here. I think we all agree on that, but the problem of this company is serious, and it's certainly not surprising how late it is presented to a financial committee. This raises some questions. It would have been necessary for a financial committee to have called after a diagnostic work on the operation from the relevant bodies of the Member States, such as the National Re-examination Committee, before deciding to give this loan to the company. As we know, since the company was turned into a public partner, the financial debt of the company has steadily increased. This has been discussed here. The independent assessment of loss should have been carried out and the responsibility of the company's management should also have been considered in my opinion. The failure of this company is now running wild, as we know it, and the account is being sent to the taxpayers. In early stages, action should have been taken. This problem is not available overnight. In addition, the company's investments have to be reviewed in recent years. The director of the company has said that letters dropped far beyond what was expected and that resulted in a reduction of income. The income included the money. To cover the cost of postal services. Then you put a question mark on how this company's planning is performed when there's such a major deviation from the income plan. In addition to the decision to take part in private rights, it is especially necessary to answer how to solve this unsaid global burden of services that comes with the European Commission's license. It must be said, Madam President, that the setting on this matter has all been in disrepute and in no way in accordance with good administrative practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u82	Madam President. Iceland is a national interest enterprise owned by all the people of the country who are now facing a completely different business environment and related problems. The company has already responded by economic management in the region as well as in the capital area. The whole country's global service duty is important but puts the company in a different position, but similar companies, which can unveil a female driver at the top of which there is no obligation to the community. Iceland has been caught on a large scale and has been responsible for a wide range of human life in the country. This is a well - run company that deals with the same problems and other comparable mail services in the North countries, which are also owned by the state, facing a decrease in general letters, an increase in the cost of international services, and the high cost of online trading, called China shipments, which are financial resources for the company. Following the government's loans to Iceland, the company plans to take many measures to ensure its future management ground and has been put on a team to follow that job with the proposals to the state. The Kingdom must also define the level of service, building on universal service with all the people of the country. The Parliament has a bill on the global review of a law on mail service, and it is important that we make a good contribution, since the mail service is also one of the fundamental aspects of the community that we need to protect and are responsible for the State. It is very important that the service continues to be good and efficient throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u83	A respectable president. Here's a tough case for discussion, but the President's Reconnaissance on bill for the 2018 budget says: It is unfortunate to know exactly how to deal with the business problems of the society so that the results are met before making a decision on a government fund to the company. Whether or not the financial problem is due to the private rights of the work, [...] due to a global service scale placed on the company or because of its competitiveness. The potential for coping with the problem must be largely determined by the results of such analysis. They don't give a public opinion like that. There's no such diagnosis for a financial committee. The General will not receive such an analysis. It's a loan back. A bill for financial support suggests a change in 2 stanzas 5. Money, which is about the government's refund. State reimbursement is about government responsibilities, as it says on state responsibilities, that their regulations also legalize the loans of state funds, as appropriate. Yet, we do not receive the comments of the Kingdom guarantee fund on how this loan works, whether it all meets the requirements for state responsibility. The lack of analysis of why interest is as revealed in the case of an authority is no longer the market presidents for borrowing from the company's bank. Then the interest presidents must change, but it is noted that the interest on the loans the European Commission receives is at the very market rate at the rate it has received at the beginning of the year. We are at the point where there is now a total of 1,500 million loans that can be nothing but strength, strength of state. There's nothing to see that Icelanders are going to repay this loan and, as I've said before, if they are to repay the loan, it will just have to be further a government grant as a result of this underlying problem that is not a solution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u84	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the serious situation of Iceland's e-mail. Not surprisingly, when you think that since 2014 this whole thing has been going on, how it's been controlled over and over again, it has been quite optimistic. More than 90 have been increased at European level since then. The cost is about 1.4 billion. A week ago, a beautiful new 650 m2 post office was opened on Selephoss, a great ambition, 300 million there. 700 million people have gone to the Big Head Transport Centre at the same time as the company may be looking forward to a recession. Of course, we have to put our arms around the company and make sure our mail is secure. All of us have the right to receive our deliveries, but we also need to consider what can be done for our advantage. I was terrified when the director of the Agency came in and said that in fact, it was only right to replace the company with wind, that there would be a problem, as he implied, right now in 2019. Then I feel that we're gonna have to set a good example and know what we're doing, and that we're going to have some serious economics at Iceland. It's totally the last thing to do is take 1.5 billion of public money and almost have the feeling that we're throwing it out of the window because it doesn't produce the desired results. I don't think work is strong enough about the responsibility we have to take on the public money right now. I challenge the government to look ahead to their toes and take responsibility for these 1.5 billion and know at least that they will be well protected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u85	Madam President. I'm not going to talk about mail. I'm going to talk about operating on a public company that's run out of business, and most people are going crazy. The purpose of the implementation of law on public societies in 2006 was to improve the availability of public and others to the information about parts to which the public will have a full share. That change included: that administration laws, information laws and laws on the rights of public employees ceased to apply to the appropriate organisation. Those who rejoiced in that change said that it would enhance the flexibility of the organization. On the other hand, those who were opposed said that on the other hand, this change could affect the rights of employees and reduce the pervadency of a business. Now we are faced with the situation of Iceland's espionage, which has certainly enjoyed a flexibility in business, with large investments, failures, in various competitive functions. I think we can all agree that the flexibility isn't great. Then we'll find out who's responsible. There's one company, one department, one person to represent this one single vote for the public in this public society. It's the Ministry of finance. The government of Iceland is politicalized and has been that way since the beginning. It has, among other things, been identified as "the true God, " and is" the God of all creation. " Sit with the secretary of finance, the one saying this vote. It doesn't seem to have returned in the transparency. It is only hoped that you will ask: " Have we walked the road for good? I'm not going to give all the responsibility to the secretary of finance, even though it is considerable in this case, but I'd like to point out something else specifically taken up and made such a decision. In the case of public partnerships, representatives of the owners may attend the main meetings and present written suggestions, in this case of the General Assembly. I think it's pretty clear to us this discussion that if we're going to prevent this recurrence, the official partnership as a secretary of finance is a guardian and we're responsible in this way in the dark until one of the resources is so quick to get money in the public pocket, to the taxpayers, that we as security officers here simply have to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u86	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for this discussion of Iceland's e-mail, of the status and prospects of mail distribution. I want to thank you very much. Minister at the same time for his input. Iceland has been high in the debate and in the field of the council in connection with the budget and loans. It's important to take this perspective as a dog. The phrase is here used, to answer to the future, the effect of the bill under discussion. The environment and transport board on private rights management, on-going management, and on the basis of the alcosystem costs. If the bill becomes the law, it'll be 2020. Iceland is the highest law on the European Union's European Commission on the area of e - mail. Company obligations include: in ensuring all people of the country on equal terms of access to the services that meet specific quality requirements at an affordable price. This is important when we consider the situation. That's when I got it. The labour board responds from the European Commission on planned measures, and it shows that income from private rights has, in turn, decreased under the services of an international agency. This is clearly seen in the evidence. The company has tried to create and build a future distribution system for the public service. The European Commission and directors are now working on budgets for 2019 and are reviewing revenue potentials and individual management teams in order to trust the company's income base and reduce costs, i.e. General economic and maintenance measures. I can say with what. The apologetic that they had begun before. But then I remind you that the loan rights of the loan are conditional, for ministers are informing of the progress of this crisis. This will give us a further analysis of it before we borrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u87	Madam President. It's a real need for discussion that's here today about this official community of ours, Iceland E-mail. I would like my second speech just to discuss the competitiveness of this company. For years, at least In the past decade and even in the last two decades, there has been a lot of complaints about the operation of Iceland's daughter companions who are involved in competitive business. During the days, it was found that a decision had been made by the executives of Iceland's ePossity Pós, who is just a post office in a bullshit competition. In addition, Iceland had lent ePost, i.e. This business in competitive business, money out of its company, an Iceland market, which, in turn, makes money for the rest of us because of a difficult business situation. The loan to the daughterhood proved to be a failure to carry interest as normal. Then you wonder, " What are we doing in this competitive business? ' The head of professional drivers' society spoke of this as a result of Iceland's clearly breaking a treaty recently made with the Contestance Commission because of the government community's operation on their covens. Mrs. President, I am deeply concerned that the government has now made a decision for this 1,500 million. K. an injection because I'm afraid EFTA will arrive and will simply spank us for this procedure. [[The president calls.]] Iceland has for years been in a fucked-up competitive business, and such funding is completely forbidden. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u88	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for starting this conversation, since we hear from these talks that it is extremely important to talk about Iceland and the future of mail deliveries in the country. I'd like to start by saying that I just thought it was pretty lame having to pay an emergency loan to Iceland the other day. I did, however, because a financial committee had placed rigid terms against this, specific conditions that the mail needs to meet. Also because I didn't hear anyone here at the council Hall giving me some better ideas on how to deal with the situation. To me, it wasn't the way to say no to this loan and let Iceland go bankrupt. Sounds to me like everyone in this room agrees that it is important to maintain mail service in the country. In fact, I'm going to say for my part that I find it boring to get mail, and I would like to get it much less if it was changing, and I think there might be some sort of a better way to look at it when it comes to that. However, as for the Icelandic company, there are transport companies, and there are plenty of transport companies in the market, which perform a variety of such services. In addition, we can see how much changes are made in electronic services and electronic mail services, so the market is changing dramatically. Of course, it is the principal argument the head of Iceland's e - mail has provided for a position that is not entirely new, and governments have been exposed for a certain period of time, even though they have not responded until now. I have to state to my point that I think it is important that we discuss the future of the Senate mail service. I would have liked to see that we sold the company from Iceland and put out the services that we believe are the means of paying any government money by and allowing companies on the market to participate in such a discharge, because this is an important service. In no way can I see evidence that the business needs to be on the shoulders of the State for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u89	V.E.G. President. In view of the time of the Christmas cards, this discussion is appropriate. Iceland is in trouble, but much of the problem is explained by reduced mail volumes and high costs of distributing shipments from China. The cost of this transport is high, but the income is low. Iceland is owned by the government and has certain obligations. In order to meet responsibilities, only two seem to be in position, to raise payment to Iceland or to impair the service. The damage to services will have greater impact on the region and the more populated areas than on urban areas. I'd like to think about how we can see these things. Is there any solutions we could use to meet Iceland? I'm not aware of how much it would save to move mailboxes to border limits like Danir did or to take in the laws of public service as the Finnar did. This does not change our discussion. We must come to a more reasonable conclusion. Is it, e.g. the solution to spread less frequently than the offer to pick up bras or mail in the post office? That's a question. In many cases, e - mails are sent electronically, and in many cases it may be possible to handle them. The government has to have a policy for Iceland as far as it's concerned. The people on the outside, in the most remote parts of our beautiful land, should be given the same service as those living in the urban area. These serve as basic services in the country, and we politicians have an obligation to render that service to the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u90	Madam President. It is important to be responsible in this matter. Actually, I didn't all feel that way, as revealed in votes on Iceland's warrants to borrow money from the government during the budget discussion. The idea of an accelerator's idea of a delivery system in the mail service is interesting, and I think it needs to be examined thoroughly. Postal service is one of the fundamental factors of society, and it is very important that it is efficient throughout the country. It is interesting to relate that the Postman Society will be 100 years old next year, and that is an excellent article in the Morning Press today, after its chairman. The board is responsible for the government, and we've committed Iceland to carrying out its duties. This problem, how fast mail has been drawn, is not a custom phenomenon. There have been similar problems in the North countries, and of them we should try to learn what has worked and what has not been worked to ensure public service. I point out that for the scattered settlements where there is a long course of service, regular mail services are key. This is where I think, for example. about the aviator or the farmer who needs a spare part in a broken motor, and there is much to it. So I pay attention not to reduce my service more fully in this regard. Iceland is a company owned by all of us, so the value of that company has to be protected, not just allowed to go over as it seemed to some senators were taking care of the budget. Iceland is big, and the Icelanders are few in the big context. The number of people on square miles is far less than in all the countries we compare with. It could be that some private people would be benefiting from a competition with Iceland E - mail in the capital area with 50 g of these letters, but I don't see that there would be much extracurricular activity. This must be carefully examined, and a financial committee, as stated in the Committee on budgets, intend to pay close attention and have been asked before the loan will be fully informed about the progress of financial reorganization and the implementation of a future development system. By doing so, we show responsibilities on this important business, Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u91	A respectable president. Actually, it's not that crazyly much service to us in the capital area. I know that the post office here in 101 will soon close, so more people can complain about it, but we can cycle and pick up the mail somewhere else. [[Up front.]] I'd like to think about governments as politicians or as statesmen. Often they go into unwise investments, and I think this is an example. This may not be as rough as when an OR went out in some sort of shrimp or lobster or shellfish or what it was. Still, you ask: " What's going on when you borrow girls without interest? Is that a law? It can also be asked: Why is the level increased by 90 at the same time as the contraction is in the mail service? There's something you can ask yourself. There may well be some political interests at stake. Of course, I have great respect for this basic service. It is important that we nurture and care for her. Still, we need to ask ourselves: " Where are we going to draw the line? Where will we say that this is where the principle of competition applies? We also need to consider where the money is best spent. For my part, I would like to see a post office everywhere, and I like this place, especially when they're in old houses. We should be careful of these buildings. As consumers, we might also ask: If we are about to be funded for a loan as we have now, 1.5 billion, are we getting a more inexpensive service? Are we getting a closer service? In my case, I must say: No, my tax dollars do not go to finance a service that is closer to me and less expensive at the moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u92	A respectable president. Of course, we must protect our mail service, that is not a question. There's always talk about some letters from China, but we get very few letters from China. However, many packages are obtained from there. But, yes, we all aim to reduce the use of mail. Our declared policy is to try to get most of it into electronic form. It doesn't change the fact that the situation that has come up in Iceland today is not new, it was anticipated. The sad state of the situation is that it should be sled out here and now and that it has not been done in more advance. So I say, all monitoring is extremely short and also our follow-up with the way Iceland's real situation is and what we can do for help. We're putting 1,500 million into this company, which has a 60% choice in a competitive market. I agree with that. paritaprevir Helga Vögla Helgadóttir that it may be that we are creating a liability by entering such a competitive market, although the mail is an official partner in 40%, which is so much so in a competitive market of 60%. I think we should be doing a little better, and don't get into this so quickly, especially in view of the fact that the director of Iceland's e-mail has said that we were really just getting this done for a corner. Let's look a little further. At least we'll see not to receive the 1,500 million ever back. Let them be well protected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u93	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for a very good discussion of this important subject as soon as, of course, I'm glad that we're here for the execution of private rights in the mail service. I think it's very important that we get here for competition, like in most areas of society. A competition may lead to some good knowing always, leading to more efficient service, often better service, and the reasons that have been used for the exclusive rights here, as in many other countries long gone. Of course, as soon as I sincerely embrace it, it is also very important to make sure that it will be prepared so that it will become a real competition and preferably throughout the country. So I wondered, " Do I need to establish some kind of transport balance to make sure that there is real service around the country, not just in the capital area and possibly the Eyjafjörður region that is the areas where people are looking for competition? ' Of course, we want to make sure that this is the most widely available one. Also, we need to examine carefully whether the theory of self - explanation of the lost is valid. It has been criticized by rivals that the Society stands in organized subheadings, including the U.S. repeated complaints to the competitive authorities, and therefore, it is extremely important to find out where the root of the problem really lies, what is the cause of this difficult position of the company. Therefore, the Parliament's Council has decided to request at the council that a special assessment of Iceland's management will be made with careful review of the root causes of this problem. How has there been a separation between competition and the company's exclusive rights? Is it clear that the private rights have not been subjugated a competitive business? Where is the responsibility? Have you been adequately monitored? I think it is very important that we get clear and clear answers to these questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u94	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion that has, according to the nature of the case, been more about the current business and position than necessarily what it was supposed to be about, i.e. how a new bill can cope with the problem of mail. I'd also like to emphasize the importance of Iceland's service around the country, that's an important basic service for everyone. The post-and communications agency, an independent organisation monitoring this company, evaluated that in 2017 the prices of messages within the private rights weighed the expected loss of the European Commission of the European Union. That year was pretty balanced. But by 2018 the situation has evidently gone much worse, and so has the situation deteriorated by the end of the year, including the year C.E. ... witha further reduction in the letters and the China packets. The Society has seen improvement after the company's collections and toll treatment of shipments from China was increased. It is true to assume that in a new bill, the Society can collect fees for foreign packages that take into account the cost of the ministry plus modest profits. Thus the government assumes that, if necessary, it will not be necessary to subsidize the state of the foreign post commercial trade in competition with domestic commerce. I think it's very important. With regard to the last sentence, about the transport equation, we recommend in the bill that the distribution has the same cost everywhere in Iceland, there is one mail distribution system. We're all sitting at the same table. So it does not change that there are total distributions in different areas, within certain territories, and it is possible for others to see the benefit of it. That's exactly what's being opened in this bill. I hope we see the company's interests getting better. But I reiterate the importance of this basic service being running around the country, all over the country, for all the people of the country. It's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u95	V.E.G. President. You can't leave the case I gave earlier after that. The secretary of transportation and rural administration said that the responsibility for this case cannot be hung on the Committee to Presidency or the Council. It is true in the case of the highest. A minister to the information requested was sent here at the end of the summer, just before the assembly was met, under the premise that the council should decide whether or not they should be revealed. That's not the part of the council, chief. President, censoring or censoring the Commission's answers to the Generals. The answers should be clear, and they are ready to make the effort. The General Assembly should not be at any rate in order to resolve the answers sent. That's why I'm telling you again, Madam President, that I now demand that the information requested at the outset of February 26th. you have already provided
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u96	V.E.G. President. I declare my joy with this case because there we join the nations around us for the use of fur and the monitoring of the hairy stem. When I was reading this case, I was thinking that we've been worried about phlegm for the past few years, changed walking patterns, and things like that, and we've been talking a lot about the climate. When I was on a fur farm 30 years ago, there was a man who had been on a stick since fishing began. He said that he never saw that he acted the same way from year to year. I'd like to say this right now because there's never before an idea of how the fish in the water are gonna behave. He's got fins and tails. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u97	V.E.G. President. This is a two - sided agreement with the Faeroe Beings. We've been dealing with them, i.e. Make two-sided contracts. Then came the contract, setting up a rather boring situation that has now been resolved. It is work that we must always do. Our favorite seeds are conveyors, and we need to have a good relationship with them. But when you do business with your favorite uncles and family members, you sometimes have a problem, for your feelings are intense.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u98	A respectable president. It's certainly an agreement on the communications between Iceland and New York's fish traders, which turns to their sources to fish bottom fish here and also in furrows. But there is a misunderstanding. The senator mentioned earlier that this dispute had been resolved. It's not. This is an agreement that actually applies to 2018. For some reason it was reduced to the Ministry of State. But the case with the Faeroes is in the same place this December as it was last year in December. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u99	A respectable president. This is a vital step toward health care. Here we are, in effect, taking steps to promote teamwork in the medical system, a step that is greatly improved. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the Committee for a very good job. We are taking steps toward better sex health and better use of a variety of health - care skills. Is this in harmony with what we see more and more emphasis on, that there is a greater variety of professions working together, that there is more teamwork between different classes, and all in the interests of improving sex health in the country? It's a special pleasure to be expected that these laws will reach this country. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u100	President. This is a very normal requirement for nurses and midwives to prescribe hormonal drugs. In that case, women do not have to pay for an expensive period in specialist physicians. It's just a really good case that I'm fully supportive of.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u101	V.E.G. President. Here is a plan to establish new overall laws on the use of money and terrorist funding. Of course, we have not done well enough in this regard, and we are now on almost a black list. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Therefore, there is an urgent need for this issue to be resolved. This is the introduction of the fourth European Directive, the money-student directive, with several features of the fifth, which have not actually taken effect. This is essential, so our reputation in foreign lands and internationally no longer waits. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u102	A respectable president. I'd like to make an advance report that was listed in a member of a member of Pirata's office. In view of the fact that the bill introduced an unregistered directive to the EEA Convention, or dropped from a administrative notice when the case was submitted. That includes the bad order of events that we should not take into account. This time it is possible to show understanding because it was a specific time pressure, and most important, since the Directive has been adopted in the EEA Convention and authorized to reverse administrative notices on the part of the foreign committee while the case was being made payable to the Economic and Business Committee. Thus, the warning is made, not in the subject of the bill as such, but in the process of the bill. We hope that the future will not be that way or at least will not become a habit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-49.u103	Mr. President. Here we vote on a total law on money laundering, which is the best case, but it would have taken a little more time and effort to take a closer look at it. However, the union supports this matter because, as we have noted, we have not been able to succeed in this regard at all. We believe it is very important that next year, in 2019, this case will be taken up again and discussed more and that there will be more action in Iceland against money laundering.
