ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u1	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. There are many suggestions. A senator crossed, and the Central Party has a change of motion. I'm not going to make any specific comments about them. But, hey. A senator began his speech with the need for the poor to wait for justice from the Supreme Government. Prime Minister, Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. At the beginning, same sentence: The decision to be in good health at the invitation of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the highest. Prime Minister. This is incredible. It's different for me before. The socialismist is so far away that he does not see the welfare of the budget bill. That's amazing. This is increasing more than ever. They're investing in welfare, investing in education, investing in transport, more than ever before. Because of what? A senator spoke of the health - care system, which is being greatly increased by the health - care system, being a health care provider. It's about 650 million. K. raise in actual value and follow-up to a mental health plan, put another 650 billion. K. into it. And because of what? A senator spoke of some waiting list leak, as well as a total of 840 million. K. permission to perform a waiting list operation permanently. It's all but a leak. A senator talked about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u2	V.E.G. President. 12 years ago, a man in the public assembly said: "Don't you see the party, boys? Two years later, everything was taken to hell. Doesn't the socialist see the welfare? In itself, what is reasonably done is not to be trusted. What I pointed out is that some 4,000 people are now on the official waiting list for needed action, including emergency procedures. And the 840 million, according to the prices I had earlier, don't go too far, huh? A senator, to destroy or cut them down severely. What I meant by the leak was that here is a system, an organization, or a company, which is available to take part in spending the list - and if the money exists, even better - in a cheaper way than sending out the worst-class people and most of the country's suffering in comparable operations. That's what I meant with leaks in the system. A government government that may wish to send people to foreign countries to activities that cost two or more of them what they can do here at home because of some cross-cutting call on the company's hands that performs the operation, it's a bad thing. I don't see much good in people not using the money that is scarce, whatever the situation may be. A senator says, and I know it well, and I can get into it in the second answer to me why this money is scarce. But why not make the most of it, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u3	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm just gonna come in like a dog. A senator made mostly a subject of his speech, this alleged, well - being cut, available at the highest level. Governments and linked it to the changes that have occurred on the bill between 1 and 2. Because there is now a new economic forecast that needed to be dealt with, and in line with the fact that we had given up entirely the capital of the World Council to the Commission. Simply put, it is that there is much greater discipline in terms of money than in the past. In the financial policy of this government, we're told: "We're going to give you 1% leftovers. " All that shit. A senator is developing at 0.17% of the budget bill. Various expenditures of about 0.41%. Price update is due to a slight rise in in inflation, which is 0.43%. Expensive charges, 0.11%. A total of this is done both in debet and credit, as we say, 0.03%. An improvement of 0.07% was observed after all these measures. Network status, 1% of gross domestic product. That's all the deed. This is what we follow, and this is what we're going to do. The budget needs to examine and review and apply information. This is the discipline we've been calling for several times. Me and what. There was a senator who agreed to a bill there. The Internet's exactly the same. Still investing in well - being, in education, in transportation. [[The president calls.]] And extra climatic expenses. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u4	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the answer. Hv. A senator can quite hang it around my neck that I have agreed to a law on government finance at the time, which is probably one of the most powerful executions from this institution to the Commission ever, and it may well be that I live to regret having ever done so, but it will only come to light. But I intend to take it back. A senator of all the percentages, and he plays it for the people of the waiting lists, knowing if there's something like lying at home in pain and listening to it, because it's not going to do any good. But there's one thing about this, Mr. President, and that may be the key to all of this. A government government who trusts to leave a bank in the hands of a foreign hedge fund instead of taking over it as if it could have been done and made a considerable amount of money, on a lot of money, and with no need to save any money. I'm gonna point my head. In the next few weeks, a senator should keep an eye on the news when the largest holding of Arion's bank, Valitor, will be sold out of society for probably five times the required price, a arrangement that could have brought benefits and benefits to the Icelandic nation if men had stood up and taken the bank at their own time, as they had been able to do. But instead of setting up a government fund, this effort, which will take place over the next few weeks, will help the hedge fund instead of the government fund. It's just that way. And this is a suggestion that we made a year ago, from the middle class, about how it would be possible to maximise this quality for the government funds. And that's not where we're talking about no facade and no 0.3% or something like that. We are talking about tens of millions of dollars, which were available to dispose of a hedge fund in the world rather than to share it with a government fund. And maybe we're suing it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u5	There's a letter from Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and a Smári Mccarthy that says they can't do Congress in the next few days. So today, on Monday, November 19, we are taking our place at the General Assembly, which represented the 2sth vices of the Left move's list of green bids in the Northern District of Álfheiður Ingadóttir, where the 1st deputy has announced before the fall, and the 1st deputy of the Pirate in the South, Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir. They have previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u6	The President would like to announce the change in the work programme adopted at the Presidency Committee meeting and with the heads of Parliaments this morning to the date scheduled on Wednesday, November 28, and Friday, November 30. Is this so that members of the Parliament can participate in the World Congress of Women's Leaders, which will be held in theHorp of the 20th day? November.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u7	The president considers it possible for a meeting meeting to last longer than the Council to be needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u8	Borist has two letters from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to give written answers to inquiries on the deck. 150, for business pressure on Russia, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason, and on the threshing floor. 239, about Icelanders in Britain and Britain's evictions from the European Union, from Steindór Valdimarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u9	There's gonna be a 2nd. charities are said to be. V.E.G. The minister of social and equal rights will speak first and will be entitled to respond to his speech in order to ensure that representatives of all government groups who wish to respond. So each one has two minutes the first time but one minute the second. Thereafter, the conversation has an average counterclockwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u10	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the flexibility the council has shown. I am happy to share in the discussion, since I could not be present at 2nd. The budget of last Thursday. I've always stressed in all the matters we're working on in the Department of Social Affairs that there's as much consultation with the council as possible and that any time you can come up to the press and consult with members of Congress on the issues we're working on. I watched the 2nd. It's Thursday, including a day's budget. The proposed modifications were discussed with the 2nd districts. I sensed that it was a great desire for members of Congress to have a word with a social minister on that matter, and therefore I rejoice to participate in the debate today. Perhaps it is first said that there is an enormous increase in the case party between years of age. If the budget is to be carried out, even with the adjustments proposed to the bill at 2 Timothy 3: 1. Um., there is a significant rise in the seminary in a number of areas, and that is extremely important. The financial bill estimated that an 8.5% actual increase in social costs, or about 15.6 billion, and even if this increase is slightly reduced in the next year, due to circumstances that have normal explanations, there is still an increase in the case, an actual increase in pay and prices rates to more than 14 billion. This is extremely positive and enjoyable, especially since there is an increase again, since over the course of the present year there is an increase in the party. However, what has been most concerned about this is changes in the social security system and the status of micro-organization workers in that light. Clearly, there is a difference of opinion as to how the future system of social security and employment remuneration is best done to improve the quality of life and the quality of life of those who do not have full capacity. It has always been the focus of this government to reach as far as peace is concerned, and therefore it was decided, as often as it was discussed in this hall on the spring of 2018, to put forth a very broad agreement with all its members, both the interest groups, the Micromanic Union, exercise aid, and others, as well as the labour market and the council members, to discuss this future arrangement. They were then assigned to a group of consultations on a new social security extension in April 2018, where they all share. That work has taken longer than planned, and it has been observed in conversation, including At a welfare committee, the project was planned for a work assessment program in October, which was, unfortunately, not reached. But for good reason, that work has taken a little longer. That's even. Because we have emphasized the importance of listening to voices in the group of people, and we have worked hard to find ways to take into account the circumstances in which most people live who do not have full capacity. It is a broad group of people, so there is not one simple way. I think we can say that by listening to both those in that group and the words that have appeared in the hall to change the moving system and what needs to be avoided from changes aimed at following us in the direction of working ability, we hope to see a country in that process. I have strong hopes that they can succeed despite the delay of a month's work. As I said, the introduction of a new system will take longer than expected at the beginning. The appropriate implementation of a new assessment and implementation system will not be able to begin until 2020, instead of 2019 as planned. That has even been true. published in unsubstantiated requests during the council I have answered from members of the council. It is also because it has been called on from all sides to change slowly, prepare well, so that we do not make the same mistakes that have been cited by our neighbors in this regard. It also leads to greater reconciliation with regard to the future arrangement. When we have such a clearer picture of the future system that we want to take on, there will be steps in 2019 so that the funds of the Council and the Funds assume that they will join this category, which will probably be approved by Christmas, will be used in support of the work management process, changes to support the new system We've tried to make rough plans for what steps is practical to take in the direction of the 2020 New System and, therefore, do this in just a little longer. I think it's too early to go very detailed into those updates, before the results of the consultation group that is already being carried out on that matter. I think it's the right order to do it that way. First, we get results from an already existing job, and for certain reasons, we're running out of work, and hopefully we're running out of business. After that, and it has been said, we can take steps that will support that path. It has been designed to reduce the decline and other comments that have been made on the social security system. According to this, I'd like to say about the budget bill, because there seems to have been some misunderstanding in the discussion, that from now on in 2018, it is assumed that on January 1, 2019 there will be a 3.6% rise in these groups. We're also, if this is the decision of the Generals, because I insist that it's an Allied body that has been authorized, with 2.9 billion new funds for an arrangement. This is, of course, an increase from last year. It is so, so I reiterate it, that there is an increase in the seminary next year of over 14 billion dollars. increase in absolute That's extremely important. But we also know, and I've never pulled a feather, to give the more funding to the lawsuits in Icelandic society. However, we also need to consider how we use it and focus on how to engage in preventive measures, whether to those who fall out of a workforce, how to be more supportive with them, or to children and to other peoples, so that as a community, we can cooperate that, as most of us, we can have an active share in Icelandic society and are not led astray. I stress my cooperation with the council, and I look forward to future communication. That was the thought, so I wished to come here and give a talk so that we could communicate. They are enormously important, and I look forward to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u11	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for coming here and explaining his case. No matter how you look at it, no matter how you put it; the large, wet barrel in the front of this group was that donations were reduced to this group from planned changes to about 1,000 million between discussions. It's quite unique in the history of the council, I think, that the government itself is determined to drift away from the funds based on very weak conditions. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister directly, because there is now more part of all surgery between discussions of his Ministry: could it really be found bigger sheets than this group to lay down, at the same time as fishing costs are being dropped? Has the highest. Minister again took up a discussion in the government to respond by suspense taxes? Has he given up on that one trip abroad? And then I'd like to ask, because it matters a little bit: Is this cuts being used now between debates to put microchips in a screw? If they do not accept what is right, do they have a problem in the team of fellow workers?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u12	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for these questions. First, it would be extremely important, and I traced it very closely into my introduction speech, and I have done it all the time we've been discussing these matters in the fall, in terms of the system change in the social security, the rehabilitation and how we best support those who fall out of a labour market and help them get back into the labour market. The reason is even Because if we are unable to make a change there, the huge increase in disability will be expected in the years to come. That's why we've been worried. It was even here. discussions about young boys last week and the reasons for them to fall out of Icelandic society. It has always been said that during this system change, there will also be changes to the social security system. This work has taken longer, as mentioned in the discussion of budgets, and it includes. conducted in a Congress file that expected the case to be published in October. This is not because someone is being put in a screwbox. That's because we've been listening to the voices in the audience. We have listened to the warnings that have been given at the Assembly Hall about what we need to avoid changing our social security system. Listening and checking often leads to changes. But that often takes a little longer. That's what I've stressed about this review, that we're listening to voices, including... The Corporate Community, the Maturity Helper, and other parties are involved in the change of this system. That's why it's going to be connected, and it's been very clear in my mind. I'll answer the next question in my second answer, I can't reach it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u13	Mr. President. As far as I can hear, many of the fine people on this committee, and others, have exactly criticized this cut-off between discussions. Why, then, could this money not be held in and reimbursed when contracts are reached, as has been done many times in the face of involuntary action? It would also be interesting to hear a minister's attitude as to whether the delinquency, even if only step by step, would result in removing a penny from the decrease, would not be what would really contribute to the level of this group's activity on the market. V.E.G. A minister will also cut down 80 million on housing, a legal case that will be decisive in order to achieve some problems in labour market contracts. That's just a terrible lack of ambition. I'd like to ask a minister if he's really just going to preach to a group and call it urgent action.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u14	A respectable president. I have stressed that the money agreement will be added to this category, the micro-energy donor, next year - and we should not forget that there is an increase from the current year - will be used to back up this review, that there will be a special consideration of the impairment in that light. That's one of those things that'll be there for coverage. With regard to housing and a reduction including provides rent - rent allowances: There is a general economy requirement for discussion, but there is an increase between years. In any case where criticism has been given, whether in a housing case or in a microenergy donor, there is an increase in the next year. In terms of our rent payments, we have not been able to make the money that has been estimated to help each year because we either need to make material changes in the building of our rent or to introduce it more fully. [[The president calls.]] That's even. to review now in cooperation with the labour market partners how housing support will be more useful so that it will not have to be returned at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u15	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for answering. The bill shows that interest improvements are to be increased by 13% from year to year, that will be about 3.4 billion that will be put into this category. Yet, there is a modest amount of history. The huge increase in housing prices over the past few years has eaten up the interest improvements. One of the primary components of growth growth is an increase in value of property. Other factors also have an effect, such as increase in pay and money income. Since 2010, interest improvements have dropped by more than 8 billion. The number of families entitled has dropped by 30,000. A number of people have been replaced. So it is not to find real funds for the reported rise in payments, payments for housing owners have been reduced at the same time that taxes on homeowners have increased considerably. The main concern is the limit of limits, i.e. when to start growing up and when to be impaired. In no way have growth reformed or submerged growth reforms been in harmony with prices. In addition, peak interest rates have remained almost the same since 2011. It cannot be seen that there is anything in the bill to do with the interest rules of growth reform, that they remain unchanged. The terms of interest rates and maximum paroxysmals are increased by 5%, while the net space is about 10%. I'm asking if it's allowed, chief. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u16	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for recording this and stressing that our housing support system needs a review. This work is being carried out by the Ministry of Financial Affairs, which includes some of them. is being examined for interest, housing and other aspects of housing support in a good consultation with the Department of Social Affairs and the workforce. As has been noted for consultations between the government and the labour market partners, who are now rejecting back after the labor movement lead, housing is the key factor that people want to discuss in terms of collective agreements, which all break off at the end of this year and at the beginning of the new year. This includes support for those in a real estate market, both for those in a rented market and for those preparing their first purchase. In terms of changes in growth reforms, housing support, and other work being carried out in the process of being expected to be able to cooperate with a collective labour agreement and in cooperation with the labour market parties, they have called accordingly and I think it's positive that the government would be able to cooperate there. Criticism. In many respects, a senator is completely justified. This is why a review of their categories is being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u17	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. He says that these matters are being addressed. The panorama fund has pointed out that growth reforms can be achieved to contribute to the national housing and security of the country according to the current situation. It's a good thing if the camp loan fund points it out and I want the minister to speed up that job so we can fix it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u18	A respectable president. We expect this work to be in good agreement with agreements, and that is why the government has already begun its preparations, preparatory work has been in progress. Everyone knows that the improvement systems need a review. They have not used enough of the target groups that we want them to use, which are especially young people and those who have taken a low income. That's exactly why we're working on the change, assuming that it can be one of the factors that have an overall impact on the collective agreements, as it was shown at the first conference in the Ministerial Relations, about two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u19	President. I'd like to take a penny off against a dollar. Unsubstantiated queries of November 5 say the highest. Minister, with permission of presidents: With 4 billion inside, the financial bill will begin to organise how we use the funds to get them to the best of this group. It'll be the first time that you're last looking at a decrease... It also states, by permission of the president: It can be expected that January 1 will be a change in which 4 billion will be spent. When? Yes, there are changes to come. January 1, we will see changes. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: When he says in his speech that the changes are in January 1, was he referring to a lack of impairment, or was he referring to his skill evaluation? It sounds to me from the discussion as if it has been done, and the answers given before, that it points to the performance assessment. I would like to ask straight out, " Is the execution of these impairments dependent on the desperate approval of the assessment? ' Why is that so? What is it that the minister and the present government are concerned about removing these limitations? Is that an enormous cost? What exactly is that? Have you checked what we get back? What will save us? Or is this just considered a clean cost that we cannot afford? Or what is it exactly that a minister is concerned about? Why can't we at least begin to reduce these trials now? It's been a long time since micromask has said it's completely unplugged, it's totally possible to eliminate the impairments now, or to reduce them substantially, and then go to the staff assessment. These two things don't have to hang out. If you are not pressured into accepting your professional performance assessment, why is the overemphasis of putting these two together? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u20	A respectable president. I'm gonna take this twice. First, it has the bill, if it is approved - the final budget for every case - is expected to increase by 3.6% since January 1. It is absolutely clear that improvements will rise from January 1 to 3.6%. Then, on the basis of how we make changes in the social security system, it is absolutely clear that we make this government - and it was also in the government's administration - was decided that a work programme would have to be undertaken to prevent the development of a young person's fall out of a labour market, people we should not miss out on a job market. That's why we're making changes to this system and that's why it's been connected. This is expected based on the evaluation of KPMG and I know that it has been introduced, at least to a financial committee, and probably also to the point. A welfare committee, an increase to the party, if nothing was done and we could not make changes, would range from more than 40 billion to 90 billion in just a few years. This is an extremely serious development. As a result, if this continues in this way, government funds will have very little room to increase donations to the groups that truly need increase. That is why the government has given high priority to implementing a new social security system while initiating a new work-renewing system, which aims to help these people get back into the labour market. That's why it has to do with each other in this way. It's not to put a screw on anyone, so we've heard those voices that have come up about what needs to be avoided from changing systems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u21	President. Okay, thank you for these answers. If I get this right, and a minister can only say if I understand this wrong, that there's a reason why they're doing this before - that they're worried that people don't go back to the job market, and that's why it's too expensive. It is to say that taking out a decrease does not provide enough incentive for people to go to the workforce but also needs to be similar, which is then the possibility of working conditions. At least that's how I understand it. On the other hand, the taking off of these impairments will create the motivation needed to get people into the work market and will create the greater well - being that makes people go, possibly and hopefully, by disability. But I ask, "I have the highest. " A minister sits down with financial minister and health minister and calculates higher medical costs that could result from continuing the micropair and postponing the required injection into a housing situation to create a human housing market? [[The president calls.]] Is the global interaction of delaying these improvements on the rights of microsurgents and others involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u22	A respectable president. I have stressed that during changes in the social security system and in the changes involved in the idea of altered employment rehabilitation, functioning and ability, there will be a hearing of the warnings that have been raised. It often takes time to listen, for all must have the opportunity to speak up. It would have been very easy just to present a bill of professional assessment during the first days of the council in the fall, but it would not have resulted in our having listened to the caution, that we were trying to figure out a solution that would more people would agree with. It's supposed to be our joint job, everyone at the table at this job to make sure that the individuals who fall out of a job market - and the World Council took up as a special discussion of young boys last week, a discussion that I so wholeheartedly agree with. Then the system must support that thinking too. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're trying to get through with this job, getting into the community changes that will help these individuals to get back into the job market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u23	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Social Affairs and Equal Affairs Minister for joining us today. I'm on a tight line like that. paritaprevir Mogensen Morensen. But I'd like to start by saying that the 4 billion who had previously been earmarked and disabilityd think they were meant to be, and that's why an increased advance of 1 billion is being made to them now -- that's wrong. It never came from the highest. Governments to put one dollar in terms of improving disability, not one dollar. The 3.4% now expected in the budget bill, and in the government's declarations to increase to 3.6%, are actually just a little correction, a legal correction to be made on January 1 each year. There's no penchant for disability. It's as simple as that. And to make things better. There is one assessment of disability, and it is the microbubble himself. By allowing him to try to get his life out of this man - made, stupendous poverty trap, which is always more and better stuck in private governments each time, by allowing him to go out to work and give him a proper lead period, we will reap many times more crowns in our common estate than we would have ever known. Besides the fact that we don't have to look at these 90 billion people who may be put into the social security system in 2030, as it turns out. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What can be done? Are you really going to continue to gratify in this performance assessment with agents who really have nothing to say about disability? None of them are invalids, taking probes, so I quit now, I apologize for that. None of them are invalid. We cripples say, "Nothing about us without us. '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland, for her questions. We've been through this many times before. I want to reiterate that from current budgets, there is a 3.6% increase from January 1. There are also 2.9 billion new ones in the system that will truly be used by this group, 2,900 million, but it will be used to implement the contribution of this social security system. The plan is that it will be made concomitantly with the results of the current work. Hv. A senator says that there should be no changes in such systems except those at the table where he is talking and quoting the words: Nothing about us without us. That's exactly why we've been working on this discussion that's been going on. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson has been at this job on behalf of the government. [[Up front.]] When the result comes, which hopefully will only be over the next few weeks, we will work out plans for how the social security system needs to develop. We're talking about why we have to do this, and I don't get tired of saying that. I'd like to reflect here that last week, there was talk about young boys falling out of a job market and including a job market. was talking about being a social problem. I'm not sure that taking a cent back from these people to get them back in the community and into their jobs, etc. That's why we're looking at how the employment rehabilitation system is working and all the members inside need to work hard together. As a community, we must achieve changes that focus on these individuals entering the workforce and taking an active part in the workplace. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The current job turns even. In these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It's always such a beautiful song, I don't really understand what he was saying outside of the routine. 2,900 million. 2.9 billion, how do they use microorganisms? They take advantage of microchip, not of dollars, but of nothing. If I am wrong, I would like to ask a brief question, How should it be used for each invalid? Second of all. Young boys out to work, how should we be sure of that? We can't be sure of that, but we can be sure that by allowing them to go to work and try to strengthen it and give them a chance not to cross a dollar, they are certainly better off than they were at home. Third, seawater is between talking about the control group as the highest. A minister has, with no microorganism, and the group that was now built cross - lattice in the fall in an effort to process this so - called performance assessment. And the cost, a respectable president, is all he needs to be for us. [[The president calls.]] No cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u26	A respectable president. The funds that the Allied Parliament will agree to this category of lawsuits from January 1 - and there is an increase, and it is good to see that there is an increase - 2.9 billion, 2,900 million, will, of course, be used in micromanagement. [[For what?]] I don't know what else to use. The export will take into account the work already involved in the implementation of a new social security system. It is absolutely clear that there is an increase in the next year, secondly, the increase will be used by this group, and third is the reason that this has delayed because the work has been delayed. When results come from that work, we can apply in what way this money will be used so that it will support the thinking that the government was promoting in creating this government contract, through the introduction of a changed rehabilitation system, a workforce, and a change in social security systems there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In this we have a very good consultation with the Quantum Community, the Developmental Help and the Other Persons. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u27	Mr. President. I'm not going to downplay my best intentions. Minister of this important case, but I have to admit that I've become a bit confused in the claims of those matters. Since the beginning of a discussion on a spring financial program, there have been 4 billion people who have been able to change their disability system. This thing, which could not be explained further what would be or what would cost, then returned to the budget in the fall as 4 billion but on to something further undisclosed that would be possible at some point in the next year. Today, something has been cut down to 2.9 billion, to continue to be done at some point in the next year, but there is still no answer to what it should be or how to implement it. I know that this is not very successful in our government law of public finance, that we have clearly defined what the next year's planned expenses will be. That's why I feel like I'm facing the highest. These 4 billion were simply cut down by a minister because he did not know what to do. I ask if it had been in the palm of my hand to separate these two things and simply say, "Let's get started and take over a penny from the strike. ' It is possible to take the first step for the 4 billion planned for these changes. It can also be combined with the proposed system modifications when available and implemented. Of course, we must be patient with that. Certainly it was that we would have a bill in our hands during October, which is in the answers to the highest degree. A minister of that work is not finished, so it is quite likely that we will not receive such a bill until another fall. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why can't we simply simplify our project and begin taking a dollar off against a dollar? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u28	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. We have so much opportunity to be working on the same course as we already did. A senator was the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. However, much deeper and more important consultations have been emphasized with all key stakeholders in this regard. There has been a very negative debate on the ability to work, its consequences, its success in our neighboring countries, and we have tried to stress the degree of intervening in that, a common conclusion that may be more practical for individuals who need to take advantage of this system. The Senator wants to know why they ask each other this way. It's simply because we've made that journey, and I think the previous government has been on the same route, making changes to the social security system, while implementing a new network of social security and work programmes, work-replacement systems, and operating systems. That work must be done together. It must be won at the same time. That is what has been set up, and we do not yet have a conclusion from that work. She's been drawn, including. because consultation takes time. So we do not have the exact amount of money that is needed for this assignment. Similarly, we do not have a conclusion as to how it would be best to sort out the funds we have so that they will have the best support for the overall thinking that should be replaced by a new system. I just want to say that we're working on some of the same policies as when it happened. A senator was the highest. Ministers and we will continue to do so because we are going to finish this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u29	Mr. President. It's true that things I like most. Ministers are still working late is very familiar and was actually in the Department of Social Affairs about a year ago, all the main lines to work on. V.E.G. Minister will just have to forgive, but I don't think that's very fast in this review. It is clear that the opening stage is not yet under way, the work had been done very much in the history of the government in the preceding part of the past. Social Minister, Eygló Harðardóttir. Thus, several years of human life have been spent in a revision of the system, and I must admit that I am extending somewhat to its conclusions. But it is quite clear, and it has been clearly revealed, including With the visitors who have arranged a budget, there is no point in merely distinguishing between them. That is clear and has been the result. There is an interpolitian dispute over it in this hall, and it has been the conclusion of all who have found that one of the biggest problems in the present micro-energy pension system is paid against the dollar impairment, although it also has to be done by many other corrections. [[The president calls.]] But from the highest. A minister did not know what to do with the 4 billion at that time would have been slow to play, and there would have been no doubt that he could gain support in the hall, starting with removing a crown from the prison.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u30	A respectable president. I want to start by saying that I agree. Senator, I'm extending according to the results of my ability to evaluate and the current work. But as I say, it's been going on, and it takes time. It is extremely important that there are changes in the group of languages. This government, like the previous government, because the senator did not correct me as it did, has emphasized that changes in the social security system are being made while we address the challenge to get people to work today on disability but should not. I reiterate the discussion that was here last week about young boys. We need to rush that job, push it to finish, because then we can start preparing how it will be introduced. I stress having good cooperation with what is bad. A senator on this matter and rejoices that he is on the foundation in harmony with the government's policy in this regard, as was his own strategy when he was a minister. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u31	President. I'm going to start my criticism of money, but, with criticism, I mean, look at the benefits of talking about total government. A whole administration is a term that describes when different members of the administration work together to achieve a common goal. It would be both natural and desirable if such a complete approach was made, but unfortunately such a approach is not being seen in the budget. The funds we place in our common system should be viewed as an investment. We invest in a better society by ensuring a more advanced and healthy education system, improved health, social cohesion, and a flourishing ecosystem. Thus we create a society with ever - increasing prosperity. The value of the entire administration is best established by health care. For example, we focus on the same trends here and around the world in which people are increasingly experiencing loneliness, social isolation, and hopelessness; the circumstances and experiences leading to an increasing increase in long term health and economic costs. This is not a situation that will be improved by the ability to work. That alone does not solve such a problem. To ensure everyone's availability of quality health care irrespective of the economy is economicly logical and morally correct, but there is not enough medical support to prevent further illness. In order to improve health, basic services for health and safety, as well as economic rights, humanitarian housing markets, important work, the possibility of continued education and education throughout life and the ability to experience it. We live in a time of great turmoil. These may include exciting opportunities and challenges. Still, established organizations must develop into rhythms with a changed world. Failure to do so creates a risk of growing the divisions and breakdown of democracy. A year from year to year, we increase our expenses in the welfare system and the health system to meet their needs, but we do not make it count. Some of the explanation may be government decisions, but some of the reasons must be a lack of complete approach. A lack of understanding is that an investment in one place in the community may make money elsewhere. To ensure a child's well - being in school, an education system that is open to all, education, and prevention may prevent a person from developing a mental disorder or eating disease later in life. You see, these systems are all interconnected. It is a interaction that is difficult to recognise when there is a lack of complete approach. By increasing money in places where the need is most important, we may not be thinking enough about where we can invest to prevent all these problems. The current budget is set up, so the government's nine Ministry describes how much money they need in their projects, but the total number is always higher than the money we have for distribution. Then comes the budget bill and the government agencies just hope they didn't pull the short straw. Thus, a system based on want has been created. The amount of money that is available must always be dealt with and debated. Here we receive the budget bill on the subject, trying to hear what local voices call for help and answers to the extent possible. But this is never possible. As long as the system is set up as different sides to fight over who gets the largest part of the cake, we will never achieve real results in the challenges we are dealing with. To accomplish this, we must give complete thought to the problems and opportunities we are dealing with. This applies to health and welfare, but also educational, environmental, judicial matters, and so on. We know that when people struggle to make ends meet or have to spend a lot of time worrying about money, they add stress and stress to people's lives and cause feelings of distress and humiliation, resulting in loss of self - respect, grief, anxiety, and a breakdown in their mental and physical health. The so - called saving of the welfare system - or the reluctantness of politicians to invest in the welfare of the citizens - obviously leads to increased medical costs. But this is never checked. Why is it never seen in that way? There is no savings hidden in cuts with those less lenient in society. It's only cost. When we allow spiritual distress to flourish, crime and disrespect for the Community Convention increase. Disturbance undermines the ability to experience itself as part of a whole. Meetings and fellow feeling undermine the ability of people to participate in upbuilding discussions become active members of the community. Fewer people experience it as shareholders, so they have little respect for and responsibility for their environment and fellow citizens. A large part of the community is trapped in the stress cycle, with low pay sheet and poor physical and mental health. Unfortunately, we've made it all too difficult for people to get out of this cycle. Fighters have a very limited ability to think and plan long - term. We must respond to this reality and take that reality into a complete approach and respond to it. Money must reflect and take into account all these interactions. Investment must be in line with the interaction of these systems. Whole - souled management and collective funding are the basis for our being able to develop a human - made society that serves us all. It is the basis for us to start taking intellectual discussions, making decisions, making logical decisions, regarding the future. What we should be doing with these funds is ensuring the economic rights of people, investing in individuals, and allowing them to get out of their daily affairs, stop and ask themselves what is most important in this life. And give people the freedom to do more. Let's increase the person discount, shorten the weeks of work, delinquency, lent the birthworm, and ensure that the children of single parents get as much time with their parents as with children with both parents. This, too, matters. The greatest prevention is to support and nurture individuals and families. Children should not have to live with lack because of parental difficulties. In recent years, contributions to social affairs, family affairs, disabled people, and disability pensioners have been able to do nothing to create peace and improve the status of those less fortunate in society. Since we have discussed the most, how should the decline in the disability - saving population be reduced? Early this year about 4 billion were known. The amount of space that could be used to reduce the decline of the disability pensioner. With the changes in the majority of the items, this amount will be taken from 4 billion dollars. to 2.9 billion with the argument that the necessary system changes need to be delayed. This system change is likely to refer to the work assessment, but it does not have to be ready to perform the task of reducing a dollar to the level of reduced micro-energy pensioners. The two things don't hang together. The service assessment is totally not linked to reducing the degree of impairment. It would be best to eliminate the impairments completely, regardless of this job estimate. Why are you connected to completely non-related changes? We know what the cost of delinquency is. Prior to the council, Porta's bill is abducted by a dollar in return, but the cost of the matter has been measured by the Ministry of Ministers as 11.4 billion. That's the number we should be talking about here, not 4 billion, not 2.9 billion, but 11.4 billion. That's the number we should be discussing. Because in the end, it's not a question of a dollar number. It's a matter of justice. A crown against a dollar is one of the most unfair and unjust systems found in Iceland's history and even in other places. Is such injustice to be maintained because when it comes to the government's plans for working performance, a desperate person is disobedient? The yellow roots did not work, so now the whip is being used. As a result of fishing costs, the budget assumes a small amount of $3 billion. Somehow, we can afford to lose these income from our common resources, but we cannot afford to take a dollar off against a dollar's impairment. Government views have been necessary to ensure the security and survival of the project, likely because it is an investment in money - making seas, but the government does not consider the people of the land to be an important resource to invest in. Investments in people will always bring long - term benefits. Those words contain far less than a sum of ignominious words. Similarly, the government does not seem to consider investing in young people and children's families. In his review of the budget bill, ASI noted that in recent years child - welfare benefits have dropped significantly that the real value and the number of those who accept child damages have been greatly reduced. The duration of birth has also remained unchanged for a long time, despite the induction of it. I find it quite obvious that people in this country do not have children or that family members have support. Foreseen increases in roofs of maternity clinics at 600,000 p.m. is for improvement, yes, but it will be enough after the first nine months in a child's life. If we're not going to invest in the children and young people in the country, where? Then I would like to point out that the most vulnerable number of parents and children who are single parents with low incomes is not being considered. A birthworm should be centered on the needs of the child, i.e. To ensure a healthy development, a valuable, stress - free time with parents is needed. It's not enough just to have nine months. Then I can't talk about the budget without talking about housing. The recent losses have been one of the biggest housing masks experienced by Icelanders. Housing prices have gone up and down prices with it. The bill has an increase in founding productions of some 800 million. K. in social apartments. That's good enough. But this one action by the government on housing is simply a disgrace. They need to be reimbursed, raised rents that have not changed in accordance with prices and need to be reimbursed. These are the very things that can be reduced. President. I'm going to finish my business, which is not far. I realize there are a number of topics that fall under welfare and a lot of criticism in a bill for financial purposes, and I could go through it before the team and talk about how much money is missing on each side. But it is impossible to recognize this whole approach while there is a lack of such a barrier. I'm not aware of the cost strategy, i.e. how was the amount determined to go to each group of lawsuits? We receive visitors to a social committee meeting, which tells us that the cost estimates of service are totally inappropriate, that the service is being increased forever while the funds are not available, and that these parties should only be able to perform service with the little money they have between their hands. A bill for the budget? I have not seen any data that lie beneath, any cost analysis, or arithmetic that clearly shows why certain amounts of money are estimated into a set of cases. In the meantime, this complete approach is extremely difficult to criticize and tell exactly where and where to find the need for money. too much. I'm going to end this business by explaining how far - fetched it is that consumerism, wealth, and economic growth are still the most important thing in times where we watch that climate change and pollution threaten life on earth, this man's only home for future generations. All of us have a common responsibility to reverse this trend, but it is our political responsibility to set fine examples and priorities for the well - being of the public, society, and the environment. Thus, we enable the public to get out of this daily hard work, look forward, and share in caring for the future and future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. The head of the welfare committee for the talk, which was of interest, and I agree with many things. But I want to come into something a little better. We have an increase in budget for the next year, an increase of 3.6% from January 1 and then another 2,900 million into the system if the budget bill is approved at the General Assembly. We've been talking about certain groups in the community. It was here last week, it included discussion of young men in Icelandic society who for some reason have fallen from a job market and are unable to find themselves in the community that we have created. I know there's a pack down there. In her speech, a senator stressed a case regarding the impairment, and she did so at a dollar's return, against a dollar's injury, and the turning point. But does the senator think that he will do all he can? How can we approach the group of people who are falling out of a job market, people we don't want to land on disability benefits from perhaps 30 to 67 years of age? How should we approach that group regarding rehabilitation, support, regarding other factors? Then I wanted to ask. A senator on the premises, because we've been there and we're working with the labour market. Hv. A senator made a good impression on rents, interest payments, and other factors that need to be improved, such as rent - rent facilities. I'd like to ask her about the supply problem, because it's been given very strongly that there's also a substantial need for housing. How does the senator imagine that we can make adjustments in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u33	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. Do I believe that a cent against a craze is all that is needed to help these people? No, but there's a natural part of it. As I spoke about in my talk, there is a growing problem around the world, especially in the Western world, when people experience one thing. It is this loneliness, social isolation, and hopelessness. I think we need to start building floors under these people. But with these impairments there is a roof that people get stuck under and cannot get out of. When I talk about how we need to secure economic rights it's about economic freedom. Part of it is that people experience that they have floors to stand on, a safety network that grabs them, and that they have the option to go at their own pace and experiment. If things go wrong, you know there's some network to catch them. It is the sense of security that we have to create for this group, obviously having problems with the way it is today. That's why it's so important that we eliminate this crime. By creating a secure environment, a safety network for these people, you give them the opportunity to enter the community at your own pace, on your own terms, experiment, fail, and not be afraid to fail. For mental and physical health, this is of utmost importance. It's about the housing business. I'm burning in time. I'll get to it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u34	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. A senator about supporting those who fall out of a work market but who should certainly be there, i.e. those who do not have serious physical ailments or who suffer from such serious spiritual illness that we should be able to help them so that they are not permanent. How important it is that they are not afraid of mistakes, so they fall out of the system or something like that - they worry. But I'm thinking that it's not just an impulse to create through the social security system, it's the framework that we've created in terms of rehabilitation, the work-replacement system, i.e. How the ACTIVE SUBSTANCE (SAD) and the health - care system work together in this regard. And that's what we're doing with a different thought, i.e. getting these partners to work together, to form mutual support and to assist these individuals into the workforce, so that the social security system works in the same direction. If we can get it two times, we should be able to make these changes. Then we should be able to provide support systems to help these people get out. But I'm worried that it won't do itself to make changes to the social security system. That's why we're in all of these changes to make a connection. But from earlier on, I reiterate the question about the supply problem in the housing business, I knew why. A senator lost time. Otherwise, I want to thank you for this discussion and for the exchange that has been here today. I look forward to cooperating with the welfare committee on the issues in which the Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities deals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u35	President. It's just that your ability to work has a bad reputation. That is understandable. This has been tried in many lands, since they have been extremely poor and scared of them. So I can't figure out why we can't just take the step to meet the desperate, who are obviously terrified when it comes to the workout and to eliminate the impairments. I see they're not to be eliminated all at once. I think it should, but on the other hand, we should reduce the impairment and then go to the job of looking at the quality of life. I agree with the highest. Minister, it's all right to consider going to the staff assessment. But I just think that first we should come to meet the cripple in this way. Then the cooperation will be possibly better in the future as regards the changes in the system. The house-to-house business. Yes, there is a need, of course, to increase the supply here. There is much more to store. One of our most important projects is to place more money on building housing, especially in the presence of focus on social housing and helping people. I feel that the lack of rent - rent aid is overwhelming because there are a lot of renters. But there is always talk of helping people to buy because they should be pressured into buying shelters. But not everyone wants to buy a house. If we had a normal tenet, many more would decide to stay in the rented market rather than to buy housing. There's never any inspection. Those in the tenant market are a sensitive group that cannot make ends meet. I've been talking about a complete administrative department. It is so important that we examine it when we keep people in poverty, for example. with this impairment. There is a group of people we live in poverty, which increases our health and cost elsewhere in the system. [[The president calls.]] That is why it is so important that we examine these languages completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u36	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, president of what? The welfare committee, an excellent speech. I was very pleased with the talk, I just have to say it, so I'm actually more here to agree first two aspects of her speech. It is first that we should view the funds that we place in these large systems, our health systems, our welfare systems, in general, as well as ours. A senator enters, but also as an investment to the future, like in the education system. I agree with what. A senator there. It has been called on a large number of global policies in the health system. This was evident very clearly at the medical assembly today, which was held at the beginning of the month. In that respect, I too am pleased with this financial bill, indeed increasing the funds that enter these major systems, the welfare system, the health system, the education system, the transportation. Of course, we can deal with the need to do so. But what I agree with why. This complete approach is made by a senator who is more simple to cooperate with the budget. First, we need to put our arms around this, just as we see that the first time we make a living, that's positive. But we need to see in more plans that this interaction is reflected in the budget. The other thing I'd like to mention, and I'd like to arrive at a later answer on the budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u37	President. There was no question there. But this is a discussion. Yes, there are many benefits in this bill, and it's a good thing that there's a lot of money being raised to lawsuits. But as I spoke about in my speech, it's hard to figure out how the interaction is between systems, what that means when we reduce funding from one place to another, how it will increase costs in another place. I'm just going to read a little bit from a committee study from a second smaller section of the budget board, with the permission of a president: For financial purposes, there is a serious lack of financial transparency. It is so impossible to find out why limited expenses or spending range increase over the amount listed in each subject. Some exceptions can be found, but this is mainly because there is no spending space in the topic field. It doesn't have to be explained too much if nothing changes. This is a bit of a problem when it comes to this financial bill and the last budget bill, too. We called a welfare committee, I remember back then, by the evidence to explain how the bill looked. How is this amount calculated? On what basis is this subject determined to receive this amount and another aspect of the sum? We called these data, and we've just never had them. This makes it hard for you to appreciate how good it really is and how this will have a long - term effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you. This conversation was made by a senator because I didn't leave a question. Of course, the question could have been this: How do you see it? For example, is there an extra emphasis on prevention? I've talked a lot about organized youth and youth service, it's valuable, but we have to watch, I think, of prevention in a broader sense, e.g. whatever options we have for those who are partly involved in some form of abnormal behavior, various kinds of treatments, and how we help people in the educational system, etc. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has been discussing how we view expenses for these matters in order to prevent them from landing in the medical system later on, and that is what we do. A senator agrees. In terms of the form I was going to come to later, it's so cool. A senator and her member, please. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has the same criticism in her minority mind and more of it. The budget board. So the institutions will place plans in all the departments, where the responsibility for the topic areas lies, and they will estimate what expenses will be for the next year. From this service, and then there's a bill, and we have a bill that shows how it spreads to institutions. We have called for more detailed information and more clearly into the package leaflet as well as to what is called a charge bridge. The budget bill is very graphic, but further explanation is needed. I just agree with what. A senator in it. But I'm waiting. A senator for a second answer to a matter of preemptive opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u39	President. Yeah, I'm willing to catch the ball when it comes to prevention. They are extremely important. Maybe I'll just use this opportunity to celebrate the work as high as possible. The Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has under way to revise the child protection party as he puts himself into action. As a member of that Senate Committee, I have just about a lot of emphasis on prevention and how we can prevent future problems from developing. Much of it is families, children's families, and that children have this time with their parents, which science shows us is an extremely important time for the development of a child. That is why one of the most important preventive measures we could take, e.g. to support the pregnant women, that there is no stress or stress in them, that they do not live in great poverty, and that we hold them and support them. So when the baby comes into the world that we make sure the children have the 12 months with their parents, which are of utmost importance. Actually, it would be important to keep the worm longer than 12 months, but it is a good step toward it. In this consumeristic society, we often forget that this is not all about the work market. It's all too important, I think, to get people into the job market when it's really about our children's well-being, in the way they grow up, that there's support. Then we get more healthy people out into a society that is incredibly valuable to society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u40	A respectable president. We'll discuss the budget. It has to be said, as it is, that yet again they carry the least of them, the weakest people, the poorest citizens, and the older citizens, those who have built up our society, little less than our own. I'd like to start by talking about the strange nature that it is supposed to reduce contributions to disability by 1.1 billion, or move it, as they say. Let's go back to November 5th at the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Equality, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, said the right thing: In progress, the social security system is being reexamined when it comes to microenergy pensioners. These include: Discussing how to reduce the degree and extent of impairment. According to the budget bill for the next year, which is now in the development of the Council on a budgetary committee, and I think it's planned to discuss 2. By next week, there is a suggestion that 4 new billion will be used to improve this group's status. They'll be even. used to reduce impairment. The Senate's decision on budget must be clarified later in this month or the next month, and before January 1, the Department of Social Affairs will set up a Regulation aimed at determining how these funds should be spent. This work will include reviewing work on the ongoing social security system and a total of Iceland's Scaring Association and Developmental Help. It says 4 billion, not 2.9. That's clear. That's why I can't help but think it's this way. The most important thing in this context is that as I know it, the 4 billion are just one third of what is needed to get a dollar out of the bank. As a result, it may also be pointed out at the highest level. The secretary of finance will be in the next year as well. 4 billion will be installed into the system. I can't see it, and I've been trying to figure out how they're going to make a full dollar out of it. I also heard from the secretary of finance that it would be done in stages. It gives you the creeps. As soon as that word is called, we will know that if anyone is left, we will be left behind by the poor and older citizens. That's the explanation for a·tourʹgism. I would also like to quote a talk at the highest. The prime minister of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, who moved not as prime minister, but as a humble member of Congress in September 2017. I'd kind of like to agree with everything she says there. But I can't tell you why this emphasis can't go through with these laws. To the people of the land. Injustice, no matter where it may be found in the community, is a threat to justice. She says she's right. And goes on: Therefore, we must never slack off in our fight for a righteous society. Waiting with righteousness is tantamount to refusing justice - as Martin Luther King put it in a famous letter. Politicians must never refer to a dominant system to support a waiting wait for justice. Politicians need to be prepared to make constant use of justice and to change the system if necessary. Otherwise, people's trust in democratic society is a threat, and that responsibility is a must for all of us. Governments should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice. The current plans for the government now assume that the elderly and the elderly should continue to woo and live in shame - stricken terms. There's supposed to be unemployable people with a full reimbursement of 217,000 bucks. Today, it's 280,000 bucks. per month. Microenergy pensioners only have 238,594 taps. A chunk of it is 34,442K. It's a poverty tax taken from the poorest people in Iceland. As a result, about 70% of disability is paid down in 204,352 k. per month. For that amount, they need to cover the expenses of home, food, medicine, and medical care. What a surprise it is that we are still seeing this amount! If we put it in context, for example. To increase the salary of members and ministers, that is a shameful number. Let's continue in the talk at the highest. Prime Minister when she was not in the government, 2017. The largest wage in Iceland is still in 280,000. It's not enough for alimony. And people on the lowest salary are asked to be grateful for 20,000 dollars. Because, more than that, there is little to it. Sadly, only righteousness has to be waited for for you, when it's the way it's done, when it all works out for the better. When these poor people are asked to wait for justice, they are being denied justice. That's what she said. Despair - at next year's convention, at the command of this government - will get only 9,000 bucks. increase, and that for taxes. They can wait for justice now. I will continue to give a word - out talk. Prime Minister. To the people of the land. I am concerned that despite economic growth, this common understanding of society is missing. I worry that too many people are asked to wait for justice. And because the question is what causes people not to agree on simple things, such as priorities, it is appropriate to answer my question: In Iceland, the government needs to rely on them to eliminate poverty. This has not been a unity at the General Assembly, although some politicians speak as if here all agree on the balance of the tax system. But we have not agreed that the role of the tax system is to secure the equation. That's what I said. The prime minister when she was not prime minister. Mr. President. During a discussion with me during an unprepared question period, she said underword: ◯ Mr. President. Of course, it is not acceptable to speak here about the fact that the government refuses to talk about poverty, not listening to talk about poverty, not speaking about poverty, not being completely silent about poverty. This is not an acceptable hearing, Mr. President. What was I talking about then? Yes, I noted that there was no discussion on the European day of poverty at the Council. Following her talk in September 2017, she put it this way: ▪ We need governments who are willing to face and respond to the fact that the richest 10% has three fourths of all wealth in the country. The reward equation as the highest. The prime minister mentioned earlier is, in fact, just another part of the picture about the equal community. The change of possessions tells quite a different story. The growing mismanagement of wealth comes directly from political decisions that have so far been made that it must not be taxed; nor should the tax payment of capital owners such as ordinary employees; nor should a high - raise step be placed on such a significant amount of income as those that make up for purchases that many members of the Parliament often make jealous talks about, but should be protracted through the tax system. The fiscal tax today is 22%, about 35 billion. At the same time, poor individuals are taxes of 37%. If we doubled the capital tax and set it up to 42%, the government budget would be minimum. They could stop paying taxes on poverty below 300,000 dollars. All the money under that would be tax and demeaning. But no. And the other is even more surprising, the lowest of society, the sick and old people who pay 37% taxes pay most of their income in an outback. But creditors don't pay back, they only get to use community service when offered to those who are at the lowest salary and pay. Those people pay the answer to capital owners. Let us continue in this remarkable discourse. Prime Minister who was not then prime minister: ▪ The same can be said of the political decisions that have been handled on improving systems, reforms, and child - welfare benefits that are useful to increasing numbers. There are also political decisions that, on the other hand, have not aimed at estimating and reducing discrepancies. Here, governments that are willing to make political decisions are needed to eliminate poverty and, at the same time, reduce disparities [...] Here, governments who want to build a social driving health system where the Landspians are playing their part, the health care will get funding for being the first stop, put money that is far more important in improving the health status of a mental health professional, which is a major problem in our good society, stressing the prevention of human health and health - a government that doesn't have the vision of health care to provide personal care, which in turn pays its own money on public funds. It is a political choice and political decision. More important, there is a need for governments, especially children, who have sexual abuses. That's what this summer's political discussion has been about, and it's important to society. This project must be carefully covered by instruction, a change in implementation, and a restoration of legislation. That's what we have to get together in this room, across all classes. [...] The role is that no one is asked to wait for justice, that society's institutions are righteous, that politicians make sure that the system serves the people, not the reverse. Our primary role is to protect the real wealth of this country, the most important possessions, some tangible, others incomprehensible. Let us not forget it at the council ahead, which I hope will be productive and good for all of us. It would've been great on the budget this year, just putting it in. Get mental - health issues in order, eliminate the list of company lists. No. That's not part of these budgets. Another amazing thing about handling the budget is a review of Iceland's Environment Association. It's quite amazing, and it says, under the permission of a president: ▪ The European Parliament's Council is here giving a review of a bill to be financed by 2019, despite never having a statement there, which raises a surprising surprise to us. - Iceland's disability alliance will never get a bill of financials. They obviously have nothing to do with them, Iceland's Department of Environment. Word goes on to say: It's still disappointing. All the cases involving disabled persons and micro-organists are starving, and despite the fact that governments talk gruelly about the growth in money gains of disability and that significant financial resources have been added to the legal classes of disabled people, and the desperate are still very short for people to live with dignity in Icelandic society. The rights of this group are very important. The Icelandic government is to ensure a community without discrimination, a society where disabled and long - suffering people have the right to life just as others do. To that end, a significant increase in funding is to be expected into all kinds of cases involving disabled people. The UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, SRFF, validated in the fall of 2016, provides a light for the entire work of the Quantum Community. It is suggested that funding be especially used to introduce the treaty into Icelandic. Money will be guaranteed to increase the MPA contracts. It is also suggested that the pensions of social security be increased substantially and that health care should be managed as free of charge. Health care needs to be greatly improved. The bioavailability of psychiatrists at clinics throughout the country is shameful. Psychological services are expensive for most people and not even available. Mental - health services need to be greatly improved, even for older ones and students. The dentist's expenses? Medical expenses had recently increased by 500 million. K. and will be next year only about 50% of what he is supposed to be. It's been starving for years. Then there is the need to put up roofs in health care because people who are at the lowest wage and paid and who are in poverty cannot afford it. Then there's physical therapy. She was a really big one. The physical therapy program produces such marvelous results that if we consider the incidence of disability, if we take the musculoskeletal problem, 400 were in that category, 2018 would be 273. It means in human language that the injections in the physical therapy program have paid off several times. Another factor that we also need to deal with, which is, in effect, one of the amazing things that have been said repeatedly in the Assembly Hall, is the tremendous growth of disability. Especially young microchip. But if we look at the numbers, how the age shift is on microbubbles, we will find that 67% of all microbubbles are 50 to 667 years old. Because, as everyone knows, you'll be healthy in the state when you're 67 and you'll stop being an invalid. All rise out of their wheelchairs and walk - or what? Let's talk about the other, the huge growth in young disability. She must be a terrible problem. When we look at the numbers - when do most people suffer from mental illness? Yes, the largest part of the 20◯29 years of age. If we just take the age group 20 to ◯24, it's only 2.8%. If we take the age group 25◯29 years, it is 3.5%. We're talking there about 6.3% of total disability. There's no problem in this context, if we're going to talk about a percentage. And if we're talking about a huge increase in disability, 10%, what are we talking about? In this age group? As far as I can see, it's just a few individuals in the whole. As a result, it is not a major problem unless we do so. On the other hand, the problem lies with those in charge. Government. The state produces microchip. How ironic it is to give these people an opportunity to have mental - health - care programs - that of attacking groups, such as the mental - health team, the mental - health team, to gain access to psychologists - to create disability. What will the Kingdom do after it has assessed a person with a mental disorder as an invalid? How does that follow? Does it? Nothing. They can only go home and be forgotten. Are they called in for an interview? No. Is there something wrong with them? No. Then the State doesn't understand what they're doing. In Iceland we also put 24% tax on aid tools like this here, crutches, and other equipment. Why? Then there is the amazingly narrow - minded understanding of Iceland's Medical Insurance on a variety of things. There are times when people are being denied things they may simply have to do to get out of the house or get out of the house. The message is, "No, you're an invalid, you just lie at home." It's totally incomprehensible that there's 24% tax on medical equipment. Let's go into some improvements under social security laws and biofuels laws. Now to rise by 3.0%. But what was the original number? Yes, 3.6% and 0.5%, respectively. Think about it. And what did the government do? She cut down this 0.5% increase in money. Of course, it could be very dangerous for the poor to get 0.5% on top of it as an increase in money. That's about two thousand. - No, inside, that's a thousand. Of course, they may start to do something shocking. In this context, it was noted: "Who has been the increase in buying? 6%. Why in the hell don't you get 6%? That is because they will never follow a pay slip as they should. There's a consumer calculus. The donor receives an income - tax deduction for the year in which the gift annuity is established. A respectable president. If the government had really intended to make some effort, it would not have reversed this rise of 0.5%. It is not 3.6% but 4.1%. But big banks need to be found, and they need to be cut down. Of course, in that case, poor and older citizens will be at that point. We know, for example. ... theemployment of unemployment is 270,000. To this day, and that's good, but they should be 300,000 tax-free. There should also be disability benefits and other things. However, unemployment improvements have gone up significantly beyond disability improvements, although they usually had similar or slightly higher disability improvements. However, it is not necessary for a cripple to do so. They're so good. Let's talk about increases in minimum income, total income, and total poverty. Let's just talk about the income side. Of course, by talking about percent, disability has increased intensities; the rate of small and low compensation is not the same as when percentages pay. We need to realize that since 2009-2017, inefficient biofuels have increased by 74,000, a minimum wage of 123,000 K, while the total pay for adults is about 242,000. We must also relate it to the enormous pay of the very few in this community to increase, far beyond the older citizens and the desperate. We've talked a lot about the quality of life, and I just want to do it when the poor were left behind, when older citizens were corrected. It's been two years. Considering that it costs about 12 billion to cut off a dollar in return, the state has saved 25 billion in this period. So they felt as if they were going to save more on and take out this 0.5% increase. This pay box - it could be a little dangerous to give the poor people so much. But what happened when Pétur Blöndal made those changes? Which older citizens were left behind? It is an ugly move: The system change did not return a certain group of older citizens. They get exactly the same dollar number they got today, or 204,000 bucks. What older citizens were left behind? Yes, they were the ones with no pension fund. Who among them had no pension fund? There were mostly women. It must be very strange in this regard that those who had been at home, thinking about their children, thinking about their home, were just punished. They didn't get anything. If this is also to be done with the micro-organization process, i.e. leave a certain group behind that can't get anything, and the system changes will never happen. We must learn from these mistakes. The only thing that came out of this was that those who had a pension fund, got an e.g. $25,000, received 15,765K. in response to tax increase and, as a result, paid nine thousand dollars. I'll tax this $25,000. But if they went to the 50 thousand if those older citizens got $50,000. From a pension fund, how did it come out? What was the return of another 25 thousand? He returned a total of 7,000. Let's put it in context of the fiscal tax. Where did they come from in the great tax system? 73%. What did we collect in financial income? 22%. Who's got the budget money? Most of the richest people? Who are the ones that get 7,000 out of $25,000? From his pension fund? The worst in Icelandic society. A respectable president. In many ways these budgets are amazing. I could go over a lot of such strange things, but, of course, I'm going to have to sit down on a few more issues. We must also point out that this is, for example, the case. A strange cut on welfare services in this context. There is another cut - down trip, and this is to be cut down for 2018-2021. There are huge waiting lists for service. A social organization has required that something be done about it. There's also something else I'm worried about on the budget bill that's kind of fallen overboard, that's in the context of public funds. It's just over 100 million. K. in e.g. ALONE they get what they need to help those near death. At the same time, we will increase the number of members of the council for a similar amount. We're dropping hundreds of millions of people into councils and cutting down where the weakest people are, where the need is most. We set billions to drill the mountain against Akureyri, putting billions ahead of billions of dollars. If we look at the budget, I'm worried that now they're talking about the older citizens' eviction problems, that they don't flow enough from the hospital. There's a dam in there. Where's the dam? Yeah, it's the new ambulance. It's been over a year, and it's all over. What's the cost? Excelsior? Will it be double, 50%, 100%, more? If we look at this in the context of earlier Kingdom projects, most of what has been planned has gone up to 100%. We have an example of public projects that have gone 175% ahead and even 200% ahead. I'm just saying, Guð help us with the new hospital core. How much is he going above? Will it be followed? Will there be the same board of directors at the hospital? I have at least a few minutes. nothing that would fit the core better than the hospital hotel. Then there's something very strange that came up the other day at the highest level. The Secretary of finance for Bjarni Benediktsson. It is his claim that micromasks have so exaggerated and that their terms are so cool that they have hundreds of thousands a month. I think that's where he's just been telling us wrong because he's definitely been against us senators. It's definitely not that it wasn't disability. Of these, 70% receive 204,000, and a large group gets much less. There's a large group out there that hasn't reached the full rights for some reason. Get just a fraction of the rights, maybe 50% of the rights they have. If they receive 50% of the rights that are only 204,000. We'll see that it's 102,000. I'm asking, "Will anyone trust himself to survive 102,000 bucks?"? No. And what should the individual do? Go to town? But does the town pay anything if the person has a mate with some income? No. So we say to a particular group of people, and these include special women - why do members of Congress not hear more about this? Why do women not rise up to defend them? These are mothers who have raised their children. It's all right, they don't have to get better terms, they can be cut off. Nobody gets up and says, " Let's just stop. Let's stop this right now and do something. Let's get to a system where everyone's equal, establish a system where no one gets under 300,000 bucks, no tax and nothing. You can't survive less. We know that 223,000 k. This is what the Ministry of Health says you must have a minimum payment to live, except for housing costs. But what do we have today? 204,000. There's a 20,000 call out there. What to do with over 100,000 dollars. in a rent or a $200,000? He can't live a thing. That is why people are living in wheelhouses downstairs in Saturday. It could continue forever to point out the injustices in this society. I'd like to finally point to another, that's with the pension fund. The Pensions are now 4,300 or 4,400 billion in their budget. We have 28 pensions. They weigh 20 billion a year at expense. 20 billion dollars of the 28 pensions account for 200 billion in 10 years - 200 billion! In 30 years it is 600 billion. We're supposed to reduce the funds to one. We're supposed to set it up so that these costs go to the people. The people own this money, they've already earned it, they've earned it. Then we have to take it up, too, to pay the pension money before the money goes in. Let's take the tax off. They don't need all this money to buy in themselves and have it all in Iceland. Let's take this money, 50 billion. Let's use them for the people today. Let's get the medical system back on track. Let no one starve. Let us apply what Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said in 2017. That was a great speech. I agree with her every word, but I don't understand how she could say that at this time, but don't let it into this bill. We've got to take a crown out of here. We know who set it up, it was the United States government, and the left green. They ought to be, and they have promised many times to take it off. [[The president calls.]] Year after year. But are you going to take it off with this bill? No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u41	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk and says that we share the view that the situation of the worst in Icelandic society needs to be improved. We have often discussed it in this public discourse, and we have agreed on both the method and the way we should use it within the range given in sheep and elsewhere. I'd like to make a special impression that there is a considerable increase in the budget for issues related to the Ministry of Social Affairs because of that. A senator gave much attention to that matter. We're adding funding to this category to 14 billion, 7.5 to show an actual increase between the years now, and that is, from the age of pay and prices. The increase in biofuels is 3.6% plus 2,900 million inside that number. So it's a very large increase. Of course, we can debate if more is needed and in what budget to go. These 14 billion go into various lawsuits. But what I wanted to come in, because a coven man was. The senator was very well discussed last week on the status of young boys, and it is estimated that paying for the microenergy pension system will be greatly increased if there are no changes, if natural growth continues in the same way. Hv. In this case, from 41 billion in 2016 to 90 billion in 2030, a senator spoke about a percentage earlier. It's just 11 years from now, with an increase of less than 50 billion. How should we deal with this? Is it enough to do so only with a dollar in return? [[The president calls.]] Do we not need more extensive changes in everything involved in working ability, activity, and so forth?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u42	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Department of Social Affairs. Yes, of course, I kind of have the solution, and it's very simple. Let's start with the Swedish route now. Let's let people work with these two years, all who want and can, especially those who can and want to work among the poor older citizens: go to work. Get a job. Made a job. No impairment. 33% failed to return to the Swedish system when Sweden did this. Why should there be something different with us? We're talking about valuation. There's a quarter of a hundred people on the waiting list for part-time jobs at the Labour Office. [[Up front.]] The staff assessment for whom? Where should they get a job? Government? The Kingdom does not advertise people with impaired ability. The locals? They do not advertise people with impaired skills. The union of the pros? They just want a 50% compensation for the team: you just go out to work, go out to God, and get dressed. For my part, this is the solution. There is also something else that we need to realize, forgotten in this context, that the largest group of microorganists is between the ages of 50 and sixty-67. The number of microorganisms in that group will increase. This is the group that's going to grow the most. That's why we have to be careful. It also shows us, and the highest. The minister must agree with me, what physical therapy, when they left her and increased her payment, results in a rapid decrease in musculoskeletal problems. This is a very inexpensive solution. I wouldn't be here today if I hadn't gone through physical therapy. It's simple. There we are arguing about things that we can see results and should focus on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u43	A respectable president. I'm glad that I and what. Let us agree on this, for that is fundamental. We must increasingly find ways to increase the number of part - time jobs, to increase the number of jobs that are a variety of part - time jobs, and to understand that individuals with some kind of disability may be quite different, quite different from many of them. Then, too, we must increase funding for the factors that are preventative. For one thing, in order to increase the number of jobs that come in there, we increase the financial resources of the sufferers next year. We're talking about raising funds to a group that really needs it. The analysis we have in front of us shows an increase in funding to the suit of less than 50 billion, from 40 billion to 90 billion, if nothing has to be done. Therefore, we need to take the job to see how we can make changes in the system, how we can increase support to those who fall out of a job market but should not do so. It must be done at the same time so that we can see. I'd like to ask, too, because of what. A senator has talked a lot about a penny in return of a dollar. Last week there was a special discussion about young boys. I don't think a cent against a dollar's decrease will in itself trigger young boys. What action must we take to do so? Are we not doing so in part with what we are doing? I think me and what. A senator may agree on this, but headlines in the media often give reasons. Other than that, I want to thank you. A senator for a good speech. There are many things we would agree on, even though we may be able to discern the ways and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u44	A respectable president. I appreciate the question, and I love to answer it: Let's get to the center of rehabilitation, study, and employment service. Let's call these people in, honor them. Let's do something. We do not have to wait for a system. You can do this right now. We have a work agency. You only need a department there to try to activate things, do something. There has been an argument about the effectiveness assessment of 20, 30 years. We can argue over the next 20 to 30 years, which is a matter of doing something. Then there is a dollar apiece. Why in the hell is it supposed to be stuck in with a dollar across from a dollar? Why don't we just take her out? Everyone's made a promise. What Is the Obstacle? Is that a matter of saving 12 billion? That has saved 25 billion in two years. All the bands promised. Let's take it out now, not tomorrow, but now. Let's take her out and take the Swedish route, we'll tell people, " Get a job. ' Make them. Go to school. You can do anything without falling for the benefits, and you can never go out of anything. At the same time, we are on our way with people who are quite ready. Everybody wants to win, I don't have any faith in anything else. There are, however, a lot of people who can't work and it's scary, but everybody wants to win.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Inga Kristinsson's most excellent speech. Most of the things I was about to enter an answer appeared at the highest level. Minister Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson. But I thought it was a problem. A senator highlights how we can cope with problems and the incidence of disability. Then we're just looking at the numbers in the system and the development of budgets. Then there is the pleasant fact that there has been significant results when it comes to musculoskeletal problems when more people are allowed to search for physical therapy. In the case of micropair, recorded at the beginning of 2018, more than 21,000 are rated 75%. Highly 70% or more than 60% of this group is due to musculoskeletal problems and psychiatric disorders. It has to do with the discussion that we had just forgotten our boys because there's a lot of disability there, young men with some sort of problem in this area. If we can achieve this success through physical therapy, in part because we and the highest. The government has been lowering the payment session, how can we achieve similar results with the other factors?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry because this is the foundation. We have had the results of giving more people the opportunity to receive physical therapy. It shows that in many ways it is superfluously tailored. But there are waiting lists for physical therapy, huge waiting lists. Then there are worries that recent physical therapists may not be enough to cover the future with those who are falling out because of their age. We too need to deal with it. But we also need to review this vision of our boys and all those in this disability trap with a mental illness, Of course, it is surprising that the person who is judged by a mental - health disorder may be allowed time once a month for a mental - health professional and is being treated with him in relation to it. But the biggest organization, insurance, the state, doesn't do anything. You don't try to activate him, call him, tell him if he wants to come, make some carrots, try to activate him. It's nothing. There is no government letter or insurance agency or any public authority that says: "We're worried about you, aren't you willing to go to school? Do you not want to find out if you can hire for a job or something? Nothing. Doesn't sound like a wall from the state. That's exactly what we're supposed to change. That's our approach. Of course, there is a measure of violence in leaving someone behind, forgetting him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I completely share this opinion with you. A senator made it very clear in his speech what you can do and how you can be successful. I think, unfortunately, we may not have watched this as a premeditation when we started off by reducing the payment process and thus allowing people to receive additional physical therapy. But the results are significant. In his speech, a senator drew it up. We can use this as an example to look at other areas because we're supposed to watch prevention, I want to mean, in a broader context, with resources in this field. Of course, from the cradle to the grave, we should watch prevention. I've been talking a lot about organized youth and youth service, the importance of prevention, because all research shows that there is a future support for young people. I'm going to come back to an interesting point. A senator drew out, premeditated by the budget. The bill assumes 2.9% of inflation and provides 0.5%, that is 0.5% of pay development, with 3.4%. We've got a new inflation forecast. For the first time, we feel a little worse between June and November. It hasn't happened in the past few years. At the same time, the harbor bank has grown, so we put 3.6%, which is truly an increase. But would we not be just saying, " We have no faith in money policy if we were to do something higher? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. We need to realize that the amount is so low. We're talking about so little money. This is not in any way related to what the senators and others have received, and again. We're talking about pennies, we're talking about a 71⁄28 you're talking about. A.K., this has been taken away from microchip for a long time. It has long been taken from senior citizens with all the elevations. The inflation rate, and everything else that has come, has been taken long ago. As a result, it is so low. That's why it's completely incomprehensible that we don't just get on with it quickly, without thinking a minute, taking off a penny back, and getting things right. We can do that, it'd pay a way for everyone. I've got it all figured out. You see, it has the opposite effect of trying to be somehow beating people down and forcing them to do something, a job estimate, or something else. We should forget that. We just have to get things settled. And change it as if with physical therapists, how it worked. This is what we need to do with psychiatrists, the mental patient. You have to create some centre to handle this and increase access. I've got it figured out that if we did, we'd have got rid of the problems. But if we are going to keep talking in circles and doing what we've always done, this will be 90 billion in the future, but luckily, we can change the future. We can change this. And we can do it right away. If we get together, take away a crown, sit down, we're all happy. Then I'm quite sure we'll work this out. Right away. But as soon as you start pinching the 0.5%, I mean, these are so small. And to raise the personal discount by 533k. If it had been 5,000, I would have understood. But 533 k, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u49	A respectable president. They were a lofty goal for the current government at the beginning of its journey, and it was fascinating to consider the ways in which the sects created. I allow myself to quote the Constitution, by permission of the President: ▪ In a new government, groups running the political spectrum from left to right will try to add a new tone, isolate themselves into the key projects that put Iceland in the front order, and make the knots so that it will be good to live and work for young and old. How would the sound be in the elderly, the head of the education system, the microchip, I don't talk about those who work in health care? What do they have? Is the work of putting the country in the best order of welfare? I'm not sure, I think on a variety of masks. We will now discuss a budget bill for the second time this fall, and time will go on. On the contrary to the dreams of the government, there have been changes and turmoil in our society that were not thought to exist, but some considered predictable - to be slow. Nothing is standing in place, especially in the economy, which clings to a currency target on international levels, a currency that can be compared to a corch stopper that creeps along on an oscillated ocean within a factory leader. In the beginning, the government was preaching largely in most areas. The common people put themselves in position - but their efforts are great. The public is still waiting, and it seems to be retreating rather than attending. Those who have the best chance, those already in the aluminum, continue to find room and make money. For example, in 2016 nearly half of the pure possessions created in Iceland took place. The wealth totals with capital gains at the highest 5% of the population were less than one quarter of the total income of the population. In contrast, microspheres are provided for correction on their own terms, which are then retracted. It's out and out. The same continues. Iceland is by far the lowest of all northern countries on Oxfam's list when it comes to counter-argument measures. We must react, and we rely on social thinking forces in the government to deal with the brakes if they are then on the watch. The financial agenda that has been followed in Iceland in recent years has resulted in increased government spending at the same time and without the government's attention to the strengthening of farms. Consider, for example, one example, the whole tourism sector. Tables have been weakened by an additive effect, e.g. tax changes, such as felling fiscal taxes, reducing hunting costs, paying taxes, preventing tollies, and paying costs, and reducing income taxes. As a result, the removal of the State has been in irons, but at the same time, it has been maintained. It means not attacking on welfare benefits but weakening support through the transfer systems, which include child support and growth improvements. This policy will only result in greater inexorability in Iceland, which undermine social stability and therefore is not a likely way to contribute to a labour market reconciliation. Iceland's Common Association published a report in the fall of 2017, where the tax burden of remuneration was traced from 1998. The main conclusion of the report, the red strand, was that the tax burden of most labour market groups had increased over time and, by far, in low - income groups. What caused this was the failure of pay and personality beat, increased impairment, and reduced power from the growth reform system as well as increased impairment of the child-replacement system, all controlled politics. This trend has not been unexpected. The union has constantly and repeated apocalyptic action, warned, turned around, and presented suggestions for reversal. Similarly, the labor movement has done so. They saw what was coming. Mr. President. The present government early proclaimed changes in the income tax system, and no one needs to be surprised that they had benefited the more materially and that this will not be a pleasure. However, it is positive that the emphasis has shifted from the plan of flat income taxes to increase personality discounts. It is worth considering that taxes on a higher income in Iceland are the lowest among the Northern countries. It is absurd that in reimbursement of the tax system, there is no concordance of taxation on income, capital gain, and wealth, and these factors are associated with the taxation of remuneration. The declared fiscal brotherhood of the Independence Party will probably stand in the way. They think it's the wrong taxes in the right place. They feel that it is acceptable to squeeze taxes out of microbubbles and chemical people who live even on or under the limits of living. How sad it was when they were revereed to 1st. for the bill to correct the change in income tax in the days, the changes that will hide. in the absence of tax returns for pensions in decrepit, disability and rehabilitation-related parenchymal patients. There we are talking about the cost of care care, medical and medicine, hearing aids, etc. And what would the government have to collect from a pensioner's pocket? Yes, this very poorest group of people was charged with 500 million tax and an answer. It's okay with that, but it's a low tax system. Can't the 5% of the population who have almost as much as the rest, 95%, contribute something? I'm asking you, aren't these families any more able to do this? Mr. President. Family support will be increased by 1.6 billion over the next year. It is good news and a small step in the right direction. Children's benefits are now off the hook at 241,000. parent's monthly salary, but the target is now rising to 300,000. It's a good thing that the government groups finally agree with us in the United States that child support should not be far below the minimum. It's only been a few months since the government groups passed such suggestions. On the other hand, married couples who have the median pay will not receive any child benefits, a couple with about 68,000 dollars. Asked: What route is this government on? Who's the community politics? We need everything we need in order to increase the number of Icelanders. We need to work hard, and that is not enough. Governments give little effort to meet young families who want to start homes and have children. After the expected increase, child reforms are similar to real value in 2013 and 8% lower than in 2010. In spite of the proposed changes in the paediatric population it is, e.g. BHM, we agree, is that child support is nothing more than poorness, and so it should not be. As a result, the union contributes to an adjustment of 2 billion dollars in child damages. which is doubled compared to what the government groups see as acceptable now to be added to the system. House - to - house affairs are one of the main conflicts of the labor movement as well as the commercial world. These people have declared that these issues may be the key to achieving an agreement in future agreements. In recent years, the common relationship has identified the serious problems of housing markets, which includes the United States in word and deed. In a tenet, some 50,000 people, more than half of the income plague, and young people live in a ten - year - old market. According to the assessment and assessment of the Substitution Bank, tenants are less able to store up savings and depositors are more likely to have taxable housing costs in Iceland than in the rest of the North countries. They have to pay more than half of what is left in rent. According to a recent report, Gylfi Zoëga, economist and professor, tenants spend up to three times as much of the cost of housing provisions as their owners. The bill still expects 64 million. K. decrease in rent-imbursement. Thus, tenants are left behind, in an impossible position to buy real estate, trapped in poverty traps in unstable rented places, and living long after their parents even, of course, for the joy and satisfaction of some parents and others. The bill has an increase in the construction of private homes by 800 million between the years. This is the attempt to maintain a statement on construction of 2,300 general apartments between 2016 and 2020, published in 2015 on collective agreements. This is not enough to help create the promised number of apartments, including Because of increasing structural costs. ASI believe the number of apartments needed in the general housing system is much faster than planned, by at least 1,000 per year for the next few years, to meet the cumulative needs, to face the bad circumstances of underpayers in a rented market, and to reduce the provision of housing. Under this rule, the Conspiracy takes over and over again and has, in fact, repeatedly called upon this necessity with a concierge proposal. The government needs to build up at least 5,000 tens of renters in the next few years to find the rented market that is fired without a profit - based basis. In this regard, we suggest a change in the proposal for a further $2 billion. in planning general apartments. Growth improvements continue to decline, next year about 600 million. A.K., about 15%. Half of the people who should be in there are left out of the growth reform system, so much of the weight of the ratings and the limits of property are lost and nothing has been done. Support through the growth reform system has reduced the absolute value by 70% since 2013 and by the number of households that received growth improvements by 19,000 during this period. Young people who have little money in their homes today receive little or no support today through the growth system. It's not a coincidence, it's not the law of nature that's involved, it's a cognition of politics. When the Conspiracy was last in government during difficult times, it set a hundred billion dollars. in interest of interest and child support during the election season, which is a much higher sum than the government's contribution to the seminary. We'll set up an increase of 2 billion. The importance of extending and strengthening maternity does not have to be largely high on the emphasis of the Conspiracy. The government has presented us with its promises in this subject, but its signals are not clear in this bill. Special observation and emphasis should be to increase so - called birth strength to parents who are studying or outside the workforce. However, from next year's conventions, it is a source of joy to raise the maximum pay for parents in the maternity clinic at 600,000 p.m. The proposals of a future policy group on maternity issues that suggested that 300,000 were not affected and that birthworm would be extended to 12 months beyond recovery. The results of the group were in March 2016, and it has now been estimated to be 650,000. in 2018. It's a pity that these trends are not reflected in the bill. Reason is to point out that despite the increase in maximum pay from birth ordinary funds to 600,000 k. does not exceed a third of the maximum wage cost in 2007. It continues to be a common solution of state and rural society to bridge the period of care care, the period between the completion of oralvation until the child is able to make sure of day care. This period is sensitive and important. This adversely affects family income options and has a negative impact on women's employment status. According to BSRB report on day care measures, it is possible for mothers shouldering responsibility for their children during this period and can be estimated to be an average of 4 to 5 times longer from a workforce following childbearing than fathers. It's important to extend the birthmark to 12 months as everything - and activate the men. Mr. President. As far as education is concerned in this bill, the government does not see the sun. In the past, large - scale attendance seems to be in the best position. In fact, the schools receive even more half as much money, but promises were made in the government covenant, and high school has been reduced from year to year. There is a great shortage of industrialized people in the country, and the positions of certain groups of academics in the labour market have become severed. The increased financial resources of education thus do not guarantee an increase in valuables, the key to investing in the right education and skills. A government contract announces that industrial, industrial, and occupational education will be strengthened in the interests of powerful communities throughout the country. In the autumn of 2016 the government made a deal with the labour market parties and the university on the development of professional university studies. The agreement acknowledged that the development of professional university education was one of the greatest projects in college for the future, for society all. What are we working on here? There is no need for any visible action, they do not show up in this budget bill. In the United States, we make up an increase to a high school of up to 400 million. K. and to the University of 1 billion. It is then assumed that contributions to further and labour market education will be reduced from 60 billion to 60 million years. K. Some 40,000 people in the labour market have only basic education. There are especially women and people in the country's settlements. There are also a growing group of immigrants who need specific but temporary support in order to get on their feet and to have a full share in Icelandic society. In this context, I allow you to mention that the Conspiracy has proposed a synonym to shape a comprehensive policy in the affairs of immigrants where education, health services, and social services are a major factor. It is important that those groups with little basic education but who want to improve their skills and knowledge will be offered a suitable tool. This is a prerequisite for them to have the opportunity to get involved in the development of existing technology and employment and will only increase in the future. Grown - up education, with its uncertainty and lack of control over the government, is a matter of uncertainty. The basis for the ongoing education centre is not really understandable, i.e. The formula used by these centres is not in any relation to the projects. In particular, this applies to the ever-growing educational centres that work in the country and under very different circumstances, some very scattered and have to provide services in large areas. Others are localised. Mr. President. This aspect of the discussion cannot be left behind without mentioning the limited opportunities for young people with learning and working skills when they have finished high school. There have been some information that clearly sheds light on the discrimination and lack of opportunities that these youths face because of their disability. The problem is recognized, and it is said that a rich will is to take immediate action to correct matters. A wide variety of educational and knowledge centres provide people with development inhibition of opportunities for a variety of education. However, there have been rapid declines in the value of many over the past few years. It is now so much less available for people with developmental impairment than it was a few years ago. It cannot be seen that the budget is expected to improve. Mr. President. Health services were to be the flagship of the government. It was to strengthen and strengthen in every aspect of the earth and build up a damaged system from the ashes. There's a lot of work to be done, so hopefully we'll head straight ahead. The vast majority of the increase in money to health in this bill, apart from pay and prices, can be attributed to the implementation of new land hospitals, about 60% of the amount, and, in part, a donation to him and they put money aside, or what? Did they escape? The call around the country is health - care facilities in an inadequate facility that is shrinking or requiring maintenance and restoration. If that money is available, it would be an opportunity to protect them in need of a job. It is possible to call around the country; Aclin, Stykisholm, Parekjörður, Tribal Fjord, Sheep's Corn, the Akureyri Medical Center, a rented house, Eastland, and Southland. This is not part of the government's budget bill. In recent years health institutions in the country have had difficulty fulfilling their role, cutting down their activities, simplifying their service, and living with medical facilities, much more or less. Some of these are simply mended from week to week, with a circuit service that is a long - term failure. The founders and inhabitants of those areas believed that there was going to be a lot of work to be done. No, it won't hurt. There are big words and lots of words, but we're short of business. They don't show up in this bill. The founding, maintenance, and restoration of hospitals and health institutions are one key to being cared for and at a good look, primarily in behalf of clients and patients, but also in order to attract good and ambitious professionals to work and to maintain a sense of satisfaction. The management of institutions and medical services is different, but in this discussion the government puts it all into an equation that is somewhat misleading. The amount of money in your system is not guaranteed for next year. It's, for example. appears to be about 2 billion years. Lay down at a land hospital by itself. This will take into account the activities of the Akureyri Hospital, who live under the same circumstances relative to the scope of the operation. So we suggest an increase of 2 billion dollars to these two hospitals. And believe it to be so. A legal committee will now take this into account. By permission of the president, the country's joint resolution by health institutions indicates that in the second consecutive year, there seems to be an increase in health care needs in the country. It is the assessment of these institutions that their business needs a minimum of 800 million. K. In addition, just so that they can perform their basic services. In this way, the United States suggests meeting local health institutions in this way in the next year's budget. But not all negative things are to be overlooked. There are also positive things. [[Up front.]] It's supposed to be 200 billion. K. to renew instruments at health institutions in the country. That is well done, but in many cases it is used with long out - of - date and out - of - date devices. It is also important to set speeds as much as possible for remote health care equipment to be introduced. There will be plans for this to be found in a structured program. Mr. President. The Ministry of Health is working on new health care policies, and of course all citizens have expectations that this will lead to more equations and that national safety will become more secure in health care. It is important that the role of Land Hospitals is well defined for special service and general service to all the people of the country, that the move of the Lands Hospital was defined as bringing together a complete service for all the people of the country. According to the bill, additional funds are expected, Mr. President, for the next year's treatment of new nurses. According to what was said in the case of a man. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór son of Gunnarsson, late Friday night, will be started in 160 new homes in Reykjavík next year. Their operation does not cost more than 1.6 billion dollars. and it will not be easy to see along with other new projects that the business has been financially secure next year, but let's see what happens. The Constitution promises that we must consider strengthening the base of nursing homes as well as focusing on other services, such as homekeeping, daily training, and rehabilitation. However, this does not happen in a bill for financial purposes. It is not apparent that the nursing staff are not involved, but most of them are in big business. The operation is on the hands of various parties, State, rural society, autodiversaries, members of society. Farmers claim that their service pays about 1 billion dollars. Each year, they will not accept the undiscovered hope. It is the host's assessment that at least 30% is needed for a day's spending to be successful in business. Drivers realize that there will be no rise in one stage, but steps must be taken in order to reduce this difference, at least it is absurd to increase the gap, as expected in an existing budget bill. At the top of the stock market, the economy demand is expected to be 0.5% in this situation, when it is obvious that the business will not meet. This place is headed for chaos. This is what the United States wants to answer and suggest in its members a change where contributions to nursing homes rise by 1 billion dollars. During the past few years, the number of calendars has increased much more slowly, and since 2012, the number of older citizens has been much slower than the number of older ones. This is a service that rhymes with the policy of making it possible for older people to live in their homes, provide adequate support, and slows down, or prevents an institution. The demand for this service is high, and rural areas have repeatedly been denied the growth of day - to - day resorts to demand. It is very important to increase the number of calendars, especially for groups that are very housed, even in the care of caregivers. For example, I mention people who teach encephalopathy, alzheimer patients. In addition to this, the need to ensure that the trend is minimally in accordance with the calculated need, there is no need to forget the need for support for those who are likely to be under much and prolonged stress that even leads to serious health problems for them themselves. A respectable president. There is continue to be a continuation of authority for the use of funds from the elderly to the operation of nursing nurses whose role is contrary to its role. Whether these things need not end the first is a lot to consider. This, of course, takes on the defined role for the fund, i.e. building up and strengthening the facilities and improving the services of older citizens in general They defined tasks as sitting on the pick. It is fitting to have a small one. [[The Senator will take a drink of water.]] THE U.S.A. has been a priority in recent times and a call for increased support to deal with the addiction and drug problem has been enough to end without hope. FEW work on important projects, both in the capital area and throughout the country. To ensure the maintenance of the work, we order in the United States to meet the request in a practical way and to improve by a further 150 million. K. Mr. President. The lot of disability has been shameful over the past few years. You can't say it any other way. The decline in income - stricken pensioners has increased, and the difference between pensions to those living alone and others has been increasing. Theoreticians have been left behind in a wolf crisis, and their representatives feel that they are interviewed by a cold approach. The government waves a sword and divorces, that is the work record, and the desperate are suspicious. They were given hope in the budget bill with a third of the payment for the removal of a crown to one of the less - than - a - dollar declines that were then withdrawn. Mr. President. Let us allow the discussion of professional ability to grow and thrive, but let us correct the ideals of disability immediately. Let's cancel these inhibitory impairments. If not now, when? It costs, but it can be done. It's a working road. We would like to face this and suggest that the amount will be immediately at 2019 4 billion dollars. plus the 4 previously estimated minus 1 billion. In the past few years, with regard to pensioners, there has been an increase in domestic support for those who live alone in excess of the general rise in pension. This too has increased the difference between the pension of those who live alone and those who live together. There is no debate that the interests of older citizens who have been least qualified are in no way consistent with the general standard of living in the country and that large groups of them are putting their lives below poverty limits. There are the worst paid by those who have no other income than social security pensions. ASI has stressed that there will be a decline in the overall pension rate from 45% to 30% in order to improve the quality of the pensioner population with a healthy interaction between social security and pension funds and thereby put an increased impulse to participate in the labour market for its limited number of candidates. The United States contributes to the increase of funding in the way that it does in the cause of disability. A respectable president. I have here at the outset killed on a few of the things that we in the United States consider important to our community. The opposers downplay our view, saying that we see nothing more than taxes and curses. This is wrong. Of course, our goal is to work on the welfare of the public, not the small groups, that everyone has the chance to participate in society, that everyone has and is committed to a decent standard of living at the same time. We also encourage room for action and initiative, and we encourage those who are prominent in the congregation to enjoy the rewards of hard work without extremes and social responsibilities. It is familiar, likely from Africa, that it takes an entire village to raise a child. It is similar with our small community, all working hands are needed to help create a welfare community. Each one must do his part in a reasonable way, but it is not today. With adjustments in this budget, we set out a means of earning, practical, efficient income, and unafraid to say, " This costs and deals with this together in a more just way than has been done. ' Mr. President. In this context, I would like to bring up a small matter that in the report with the bill it brings attention to the plan to set up a national fund that will be funded by government energy resources and energy efficiency, particularly from Landing. This raises the question, why merely the government's energy industry? What about other private power companies? And what about other common resources? What is holding the government back in this regard? Why is this not the short step further and establishing resources that carry all our common resources to sea and land? Yes, many things have to be done, Mr. President. So I'm only going to take care of the district in which I live and move in, the Northwestern District, there's some positive things to say about that good society. Most positive, though, is the fact that there are capable people who are constantly working to promote their communities. In most places, environmental developments have been positive in recent years. The population is growing, but not in all areas. Of course, what the population of the district is at the top of their minds is the same language as that of most parts of the country. I'm the first to mention transport. No part of the country enjoys as high as the malaria and the northern part of Western and Western lands and, in fact, the ideals all. Despite this, on many roads of the country, there is no less traffic than on malformed roads in other parts of the country. Road and transportation are the growth of tourism for cleaning, and rumor is that bus companies refuse to drive some roads in this part of the country. Earth's soils and eagles would be a cause for joy, but the construction of the Dome Hashingh must come along with that great project. According to current estimates, roads are not expected to be acceptable until 2026 and coffee showers are now talking about the longest appendixes in history. Almost no contributions have been made to develop and connect in the district, both south and north, in the last decade, and in most places to the limit of endurance. An example is the road through Waternes, which has been widely discussed as well as Mount Moriscos. When it comes to farm conditions, the inhabitants have three things that they are not satisfied with and that is how they use the high road system. The national body has repeatedly tried and concluded on transport, has been adamant of priorities, and has not been given much attention. During the next four years, only an estimated 550 million are recently under construction in Western lands. Uxam's road awaits, road around Forest Beach, as well as an important spare route through Laxáry Island. The European Union of Western society requires a generous transfer of funds and to believe that at least that it needs to be done at least one. There are 1,500 million each year at national level and over 700 million. K. increase in transport funding in 2019 The people, however, rejoice in plans for the improvement of Kjalarnes and are watching pools of hope on Diving Ways. Mr. President. A home of Aranesp has taken the lead among rural communities, which are in the area of the employment and residence outside of Reykjavík, in the construction of new and varied housing options. Thirty-three rented apartments are in a town building working with the construction partner Saver, and they'll be ready in less than a year's time. The city's heart has then organized new apartment areas in the area of the city's Serentic Factory. In 2013 the factory came into possession of the trade, bringing over 55,000 m2 weights and monuments over 20,000 m2. The demolition of workers in the area is well along, and in preparation the sales sales of property and buildings up to 368 apartments are organized. The agreements on construction of workers, such as the Serentic Factory of the State, provide regular regulations for the duties of owners at the end of a building to take down and return the land built in the same condition as when it was accepted. The natural requirement for the State to participate in this cost has not been met. The negative is likely high to 300 million. K. On its own, and at that cost, the Aranesp trade site had to be held alone. A Faxa highway is defined as a highway in urban areas, situated below the sea level tradeway, and is the main source of transport to the Acdine Harbor. Clearly, the planned build-up of the heart of the Aranesp shop cannot go along without the necessary sea - defenses and the rise in Faxways. Then there are people with their futures in mind, warm weather, and rising sea level. Therefore, a home of home Bible study is requested by the State to provide the money needed at this stage for a record of about 510 million. K. It is right to make a decision in this relationship, and in connection with all the discussions about housing market problems, there is a four - cent price at renting houses and buying Aranesp from the capital area of 203/40% lower than in the capital area. Therefore, the build-up of Aranesp may help solve basic housing problems and reduce the impact of housing in the capital area. This should be an incentive to the government to assist effectively. Mr. President. It is an ambitious and urgent plan that the Acspicium has on its farsights. In view of the special circumstances there, the great housing problem faced by the national part, and the environmental tone there, I challenge the government, the respectable body of Congress, and the government, to respond and meet this vast task. I've traced to a few of the subjects that burn on our people, the people of the country, the people of the northwesternHR and the American Union. In view of the magnitude of the case, I've come to the big, allowing myself to refer to the Committee Is an understatement of further exports. A respectable president. As I cut it off in the beginning, the current government put great emphasis on reforming work in most areas, has a victory in each trial, and does things differently too. It is not fair to belittle the responsibilities that have been started. However, there are other priorities and more efficient efforts to make more money and to create space, both in order to do better, to create opportunities for action, and to prepare for a slower, more satisfying time in the economy. There was a lot of talk about large attendance and attendance there at the beginning of the journey, but that is less of a discussion in later times. ▪ You came to the barn of a white horse to the writing of Davíð the son of Stefánsson from the Rock Forest. That's where I hear my hand coming from. I hear a long distance of the government noises changing from the shouts of big attendance in all areas down to a low-cut choir as granules: We are in the process of winning a major defensive victory. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u50	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his extensive talk, and although I agree in many respects with him, I may rather disagree with him when it comes to speaking these financial provisions, as I think the Conspiracy is a sad thing to do. Hv. A senator suggested that something good could be found there. I'd like to admit it for what? A senator says that an additional 90 billion in two stanzas is pretty good, I think. It's more than a council group. The senator promised in the election, and it's also more than my council promised to put in the system in the years ahead, i.e. for the next four years. I don't remember any other group promising that kind of money. So I want to reiterate, huh? A senator, with enormous sums of money being added to almost every legal class. We put 1.5 billion into real value in the environment. I missed it at the moment. Senator. This year we add 15 billion to our health. We'll raise walking departments, nursing space, mental health care. We attached the waiting list to 840 million. We cannot allow ourselves to speak as if we had very little activity or a defensive victory. I can't believe it. A senator is really there. We're raising the number of students in a nurse. We're starting a team for highly supportive long-term children. I'd like to ask you what it's like to live in the scattered settlements. A senator whether he feels that paying only solves the matter or if he thinks the problem may be larger, since I have, at least, heard such an answer. Then I'm going to have a little more of the nursing care business in a second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for giving me answers and putting them in my mouth. It's okay. We have been living in especially rewarding times in the past few years, and even if that would be what we were going to do with society. Not only have we gained additional income but we have lived under the circumstances of getting into the savings of our monotonous assets that have been used to improve our interests. I could not capture all the details, even though time was more than I used to be. Of course, there are other factors, and I especially welcome the campaign in mental health or mental - health services at clinics, which will benefit the inhabitants of the country as well as others and even students who are in high school. It is vital that we give a good service there. When it comes to health care problems and whether it is only or the highest possible salary, I am not convinced. But this is the best part of the discussion. More than that, as in many areas, have to be taken into account, the country's settlements are closed. Men have, like, a whisk. A senator knows, um, some solutions in that field, including some coincidence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I want to come into a nursing home only because we've been told about them. As one senator noted during the discussion, some of them will be put to use later in the year; hence, their initial business needs less than that. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. A review and follow-up report for 2015 has been published in which key information on the operation and operation of nursing homes must be defined, that the size does not necessarily meet the cost, nor does the latest buildings, and so on. There is something that we need to go down to in my opinion, and more of the legal committee places emphasis on it. I'm asking why. A senator can agree that instead of putting money on something that we do not fully know, we should take the conclusions that are being considered at the request of the Kingdom Accounting Office. Also, I would like to say that the container is taken away completely by a donation presented in the Committee list of parts relating to nursing homes - absolutely. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is glad if this thing is right, that the basket should be taken away. Of course, it is a concern when we are about to take up a new room in Reykjavík, or anywhere, that there are not many funds to take on that situation. I hope it works. It is unmistakably true that this is a real problem, our major health - care problem. It's amazing, considering how much money we spend on this system, it's not the cost rate, the cost rate measured. We don't know how much things cost, or a little bit, let's not take too deep into this year. We don't come into a garage without knowing about the cost of repairing our car. It's not like this in the medical system. That's the big problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u54	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A public speaker. Hv. A senator concluded his speech on the subject of some 900 billion moderation. I'm not surprised. A senator feels it. It was also whispered by a voice inside a sigh. A member of the council that the executives would criticize the revenue process. I'm going to do it here because it's only for the purpose of disappearing into this moderation and raising some of the expenses. I'm just saying, what's going to happen? A senator to say, if we take the catch fee, we make hundreds of fishing campaigns all over the country that do not depend on an increase in hunting costs? Also, if the fishing fee is removed, then the fishing costs will be raised. I don't quite understand these suggestions for hunting charges. Hv. A senator speaks extensively about the importance of equations. I share that opinion. The media is a socialism party. The field is, like, the highest. The prime minister entered a speech, a threat of democracy, a threat of prosperity, a threat of peace. I agree with all that. That was a very good speech. I want to ask you why. A senator: How much equation is desirable? How should we measure it? What should we look at? What systems should we use to achieve greater equations? I don't share that opinion. A senator who said it wasn't a standard of living, it wasn't equal, and this isn't justice. If we consider this in a global comparison, we live in a very good society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's true that a factory has problems, many of them, not all of them. We don't want to lose them, and we don't want to lose them. We want to keep working on my work. We want to hold on to everything. We set out on a trip to meet small and medium-sized structures a few months ago, but the discussion went out in a wide field and nothing happened. We've got a new bill coming up and we'll see what happens. Of course, then, it must be held that this fishing policy is not in our spirit. She's not ours. We want to make changes, think it's more in the interest of those who own this resource that we have more to say how we employ money that rests with other owners than the owner of the resource. It's about the equation. I wouldn't agree that I put it this way, that it was a very rough place. He's quite a bit of a guy. He's smaller here, but he's a lot bigger, and that's good. However, it shows that this is not a work to reduce the intensity of the problem. It's all over Oxfam. There we fire the train. How, though, does the equation work? That's where we have an excellent tool. It is our tax system that is a good equation, so we should use much more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. First, I want to say about the seabed that it is totally incomprehensible that the Conspiracy wants to jump this system when everyone else in the world tells us something else, both for sustainable reasons and because this sector pays much more to society than anywhere else. But at the same time, the United States wants to jump up this system. That's totally incomprehensible to me. Of course, it would be very tempting to point out that when a dollar gives only now, the work will be done only by itself, and the wealth will benefit from it. Of course, that's how it's supposed to work. I want to say about the equation: Yes, it's a fact that a 2016 income equation as measured is the greatest in Iceland in OECD, and, of course, it's a very positive thing. Possession is higher, that's correct, because this government raised capital taxes. On the other hand, we have a lot of taxes, both professional and individual. [[The president calls.]] That is why there is little room for us to move in that area to encounter the alleged inequities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u57	A respectable president. I appreciate the second thing. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor. It is true that we have been successful in building up our fishing fleet and have sustainable activities. We're supposed to hold on to it. In that way, we are envious. But it is not relevant to the way we share our money with this precious resource. The wealth is the nation, and it is natural that we enjoy far more than we do. Hunting costs, I don't think I'd like to mention it, but I think we have the same money as tobacco. Is it reasonable to think that the income of the resource is close to this? In terms of public elections and goods, we have good tools that are the equalizers of the tax system. [[The president calls.]] We can come up with more tax system levels and create even better communities than we have today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk, the Guðjón - child of the Brjánsson Brunnsson, did many things for the talk. Me and some more of them. Senators know why. A senator who burns to the aid of others has often discussed them here in a discourse with a sense of reason. The senator discussed some of the cost of nursing and the cost of their business. There he spoke, including The maintenance requirement for all medical institutions, which has been proposed since childhood, is up to half percent. The budget of adding 276 million to nursing homes, which in itself is more than the sum of this maintenance requirement, although not exactly designed for that purpose, is designed to face nursing weight, as it were. But what was the key to it as long as it was. In this context, however, a senator said that the estimate and the cost analysis of what the State buys in nursing homes is not sufficient. Hv. For the sake of comfort, I can inform him that, in accordance with the government covenant, he is already employed by the Ministry of Health, working to reevaluate the nursing facilities. [[The president calls.]] I think this side effect by the dog. The budget is the first step in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson before the counter, this introduction and this information. Cost food, there's a lot of demand. Of course, there is concern that there will be fewer people who want to submit to a nursing home at the scheduled day's expenses. It is good if we work for an expensive meal. We know the story. Abolition services have built up a free organization and institutions of self - interest, and the government has made a great deal of success in operating on them. It is not until the latter time, when society begins to get more involved, that they realize that this will not work out. In most cases, they are calculated in the daily cost of living and maintaining housing. That's not possible in today's society. It is, therefore, a source of joy if men are trying to estimate these costs and that payments to the institutions will be in harmony with the needs of those living there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u60	Mr. President. Yes, it is important that the State know what it is to buy, and it is part of it. I just want to come in on it, in my second answer, as a boy. A senator spoke a little earlier, i.e. Caring for the health institutions of the country. I want to go inside. A senator, depending on what he meant when he spoke in favor of those and other factors that could be considered either to improve the quality or position of the staff who choose to serve elsewhere than here in the capital area. If the senator has time, I may also want him to come on to see if we should try to get more staff who have the main work center here in the capital area to take part in their time in the service of health - care institutions in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What is meant by it is an old familiar subject, namely, that the hostile workers ready to go out into the country, from the capital, to the Ellis Rivers, and thus offer something better. This is what we know from North Noregi and Finnmarks and beyond. There are farm grants, there are taxes, and there are travel grants. This has given us a great deal. I'm sorry, because I've lived in the country, and I like it very much, that it's like the capital population, they feel like they're doing some kind of time to serve a place that isn't good and that they especially need to pay for living in the country. It's not that good to live in the country, and I encourage most people to move to the country. [[The president calls.]] Yeah, I don't think I have any more words on that for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u62	A respectable president. We'll talk about 2nd. Legal bill of the government, the second budget bill presented by the current government. I had kind of hoped to see something in the light of all their declarations of how very good everyone is and how much we cut on the average, how much prosperity is, but it isn't. In reality, this is not expected to improve the interests of those who are locked up, the minority of such ones as invalids, for a single dollar. I'd like to start by talking about Flocking the people, the emphasis we've put on, the bills and the Senate laws all on the same book: we're fighting from the ideals against poverty in Iceland. I don't have any speech as usual, so I just have notes, and my notes are these: we're like, ... witha billabout300,000k. Minimum progress, tax and inadequacy. The most exciting thing is to say that it is the highest. The secretary of finance was able to determine the cost of such a operation, to get the lowest wage, the most needy, up to 300,000 dollars, tax, and inaccessible. The answer was so ridiculous that I can hardly say it: 159 billion, he said. As we had ever been asking, what would it cost to bring up to 300,000 dollars? That's not what we were asking. We're not the proprietor of billionaires, we're just not. What's more. It was a powerful report that followed our bill on taxation up to 300,000 dollars. for those who have lost their pay. The fact is, there are tens of thousands of Icelanders who receive a payment of between 205,000 and 242,000. But 300,000 bucks, tax-free? It doesn't cost 159 billion. It takes little more than the campaign for the Independence Party in the last campaign. I'm not going to talk about it anymore because at the end of my talk, I'm going to tell you how we've found 77 billion bucks. - Easy - to change the emphasis, priorities, to what we're looking at today at the highest. A government, a priorities that is so lame and that is so wet in the face of poor people that it is actually more painful than tears to have to stand here one more time calling out for justice. What do we have to do with OECD reports that talk about equations when we know that thousands of families will be standing in line for Christmas to wish for food? What do we have to do with it? What are we going to do with cool Excel documents and cool numbers on paper while we know that families are almost starving in the country today? Do we always have to look at those who are millionaires? On the average, do you compare it with those who do not make ends meet? I say no. It is a miserable priorities and is designed to kill matters and to throw dust into the eyes of the people of the land. And like this, 159 billion, 300,000 bucks, tax-free. That's funny, topv. President. I represent the underdog in society. I represent minorities. A group of people was founded on ideals solely to combat poverty in Iceland. Certainly, it is not possible to see that this is the case and that there is a willingness to do so in that chamber. Otherwise, there would have been no need to start the entire group in the first place, absolutely unnecessary. But here comes government by government, building fences and more powerful fences and poverty traps around them as much as should be done. Where's the respect? Where is our love for the smallest of our brothers and sisters? I don't see him here. For example, it is this: The poor get nothing better, not a single cent. That doesn't mean coming here, talking about 4 billion people who were then surprised at 2.9 billion and saying, "Well, this is what was supposed to be put in the microchip, we're improving their status, we're going to change the system for them. Of course, there was not a amount of money to be paid to improve their recovery, to increase their wages. No, but correction - in the budget bill, I take it - is expected to be 3.4% correction of the leaveovers during the New Year's season. Note - correction. I don't want it to be that at the High Council it's talking about raising the benefits or rewards of disability. It's not an increase, it's a legal correction of alimony which is simply under law and should be considered on January 1 every year. But, yes, the adjustment now allows for a total increase to 3.6%. Why is this an attempt to put them in line with pay development - or what? I just don't know, because it's so far from where you can talk about it, even if someone gets $3500. a month now after taxes. What kind of joke is this? It is repeated insurmounting the rag and slang in the face of the poorest people and those sitting beside a garden in all the fluctuations. Let's talk about the valedictorians. I can't talk about the performance assessment any other than giving it a dollar across a dollar, which I think is a world record. Or I don't think so, I know it. A crown against a dollar of microfowl is a world record. The poorest people, this only minority in the whole country, and probably in the whole world, are affected like that. It's not just a violation of human rights, it's against the law. For since I stand here and now, I guarantee that there will be a crown tested against the tribute of a crown in the courts. It cannot be possible that there can be more violence toward one minority than this blessed crown in return to a dollar. The staff assessment, yes. What is it? That's where the money's supposed to go. That's where the billions go. I just don't know how much it costs to bring these control groups, like the control team that's been working on this and really I don't know what he's doing. I don't know how much it costs, I don't know what it's gonna cost, but something's gonna cost it. At the same time, I have repeatedly pointed out that the only true and true assessment, the nature of the matter, comes from the desperate himself. Are there some experts in the town who try to bring a nice, fancy Excel-tail, who can tell us better than we ourselves what we are able to do in a job market? Let us not forget that in a fourth hundred microorganists with impaired ability to ask for part - time work. Which is in the Labour Department asking for part-time work. You know what, a respectable president, they don't exist. Theoretically, theorists receive a clear message. If they have not announced beforehand during a job interview, they are usually not very welcome in such an interview. I have repeatedly said, " Let's give the people the opportunity to go to work. ' It pays standard payment on its pay, paying its taxes and duties. If we try to do this so that they will keep their social security pay while being adapted to the labour market, we will reap nothing but a positive victory. And the increase in what Sweden and others have reaped, the growth of microorganisms in the system. This is a huge panic attack. The fact: 42 billion per year enter this system; in 2030, the rate of disability continued will be 90 billion. Is this what's waiting for? Is this going to be done by your professional assessment? Or might the cripples do so themselves? I say yes. That is exactly what the cripples would do. The crowd also spoke for their first bill in December 2016. We moved it now, the first bill we moved. It was a violation of the income of the elderly. It is remarkable that in spring, a insurance agency would answer how much it would cost to eliminate the decrease in income from the elderly. In fact, they were not talking about how much would happen to them. It was over a billion. I have a report prepared for the Fault of Old Citizens in Reykjavík, which says that this cost would even be over 3 billion, but in return the state fund would receive some 4.3 billion. Of course, it was in the variable that said the X-number of older citizens would continue to work. If a government agency is right, which we should expect, the government fund would profit by no more than three billion dollars. In a year of health, it would be wise to allow older citizens to continue working rather than remain trapped in the strong poverty trap being built around them, once again. I'm going to continue, Mr. Honorable President, talking a little bit more about older citizens. It seems so strange that I have often heard the term "efflux problem. " I wondered, " A flow problem? ' What is it? What is the flow problem? I read an article by the director of a Land Hospital of ◯ University Hospital where he says that the flow problem is, in fact, that in a land hospital, there will be an endless number of older citizens who are ready to go home but there will be nothing to catch, nothing to take over. I interpreted this concept, so they just don't flow out of the hospital fast enough. Aerodynamic problem? I must say, I'm not particularly pleased with that term, but let's leave it alone. I didn't invent it. But at least now I understand. Since the election campaign last year, senior citizens at the Land Hospital have likely increased by 28% who cannot return home. At that time, they were just under 100, now 130, meaning that there is a lack of space, emergency hospitalisations. Why should we talk about being practical? You have to be counselled in the state, you need to be practical in the state culture at the same time. - Yes, but we're just going to pay a lot more for each person, stuck at a Land Hospital, instead of helping him get home, where he wants to go and want to be. No less than 130 senior citizens are trapped in a Land Hospital ▪ College Hospital. Let us now consider how the government sets our budget, our common funds. Speaking of that now, yes, it's only rarely been the same. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gunnarsdótttir was here recently and said: We're putting 90 billion in two years into the wood. There are now more than many others, she said. Let's talk about priorities. There's supposed to be a slight decrease of taxes, you know. They're supposed to be down a lot, i.e. ... arightaboutone percent, talked about that there should be an index, and there are all kinds of calculations that I couldn't possibly have time to try to expound for you, a respectable president, because I don't even understand them myself. But all I understand is this: It's costing the state budget 14 billion dollars. and those who leaned on their feet now have this generous reduction - it's not enough for half a month's pizza. Is this helping poor people in Iceland today? I say no. 7 billion due to a decrease in the bank tax. The bank tax should be lowered by 63%. Like the banks are in trouble. I haven't heard that. These are institutions that are not particularly written by the people in the country. I'm not going to go deeper into it because then I'm gonna lose my natural way of flying, and I'd rather not, because I'm wearing this respectable speaker. 4.3 billion bucks. ... themoney of fishing fees. It's the easiest thing in the world when we're talking about extending the hunting fees, taking them as we've done until now when we're counting and giving up to taxes. Hundreds of thousands of tax reports are presented each year. The taxpayer's tax returns to taxing us individually, especially according to our income. But it seems to be wrapped around him - even though this tremendous compression took place in the development process - to extend each one's produce. It is true that especially small boats and those who are entering the article will be protected. But we don't have to lower the rate of a 4.3 billion, especially to those who are billions of dollars worth of dollars from our resource to profit every year. We're supposed to have them pay for the access, and we're supposed to get rid of it so that those who need something. It's the simplest thing in the world. I don't know how all the geniuses involved in this, experts and all of them, I don't know how much money they're gonna get, can't see. I just can't get it. I thought I was the only law-blind person in this house. 1.7 billion cost due to 1% increase in individual personality discount: 536 k. per month. I mean, a respectable President, that you'd be as dead as alive after this kick of character discount, so that's all I'm saying. But then we talk about priorities one more time, I'll take a little example. I've got so many examples I'm not going to put more on you. I don't have time for that either. I'd talk here all night. 212 million. K. ... inexpectingthe Ministry of Health, Health and Equal Opportunities. I don't know. I don't know if it's a three - story house they're in, they could even be on their own without ever having to bump into each other if the cooperation in the home is so that people don't like to meet. But put your priorities on it. V.E.G. About the same day, the prime minister said that the estimated cost was about 70 million. K. A few days later, the branch office's secretary said that it was already known that it would be 212 million and that it would probably be underestimated. But now I'm coming to the big deal. Fifty billion immediately out of the pension fund. What does that mean? The pension system boasts of an estate of 4,300 billion. We are even led to believe that this treasure belongs to the people of the land. There's no sign of it. How will we do so? So it's a matter of growth that the pensions have an exception, they've got a legal warrant and they're going to keep the fees and pensions we're paying into them. Even though we already paid them, they get to keep them and wet with that money all the time until they pay us out of the funds, i.e. If we are not long dead before the time comes when we will be paid out of the funds. What, then, will happen to what we have paid them? It'll go away in the hotel. The pension system is built up, so it is not as if our children or their mates are receiving what we have paid, no, broken pieces. We will continue to ignore the way the pension system is making a mess of the whole community. We are competing with ourselves. They have virtually every business in the country, virtually the same as they do. We do not go to markets or shop shopping unless we face up to the fact that the pension fund has so much to do with it. They are required to produce fruit in 3.5% per year. They have to do business. In fact, it is simply that by unchecking this exception that I was talking about, a pension fund can immediately - I said 50 billion because I'm so modest. I asked about the very status of the pension fund and what was really going on there. The influx is over 250 billion per year. It's like a waterfall of money flowing into this system, and most of it probably comes from the poorest people, the poorest employees. Anyway. It was found that this was probably about 120 billion, a standard payment attributed to this money. And when it's better to look, it's probably about 50 to 70,70 billion that we'd get, not 70,80 billion - not that 50 I'm talking about right now, because I'm so modest. I'm talking about old figures, not after this changed by 6% now, but 21.6% of us are paid into this fund every month and naturally around the year. When I've talked about this and I've talked about this about priorities, it's never been at any point that I haven't been completely convinced that we need to be stewards and practical, to be sensible in our farming. I'm not calling for a single cent for further expenses because we can't afford it and I know it myself. But the priorities have been set. The people are to be placed in the first place forever, quite otherwise, according to the nature of the matter, followed. We request no more than that the basic needs of the people in the country are respected. Seeds, clothing, housing for everyone. Is it really enough to talk about the average? Is it really enough to talk about what we score in OECD? When we know that there are 1.6 million in a month, we can talk about the equation, while tens of thousands are paid far below 300,000 dollars.? Putting it together and sharing in with two people -- It's shameful. It is misleading, and it is unfair to do so, not showing the real status of those who struggle and hardly draw out life. Can you imagine, I'm at 77 billion here, just with this. But as I pointed out, i.e. The small number that everyone probably thinks is extremely small in the big context is already 212 million moving and dividing up this Ministry. Could it not be done a little later? Can't we use the money to do something else and go there? Can't we put the people first? Why are we elected here? We are ideal here to work for the prosperity and prosperity of all the people of the land. We're not elected here to be stakeholders for anyone. A respectable president. It is more painful than tears to see the arrival of this blessed government covenant. Which is so cold and open to both that it is exactly what I'm talking about here and now. It is one thing to talk about coming to meet the people of the land, the second to tell the truth, and the third to stick to them. Despite the only positive thing I can see right now, it was really for people, but it wasn't possible to go all the way. We're talking about serious death, a disease that has killed 42 people this year. Can you imagine? Yes, 150 million were added. But there was a request. That'll take more than that. It can be better if it's enough. It's tissueing for humans. Adding and adding to the Parliament's staff is not an option for 17 members. Putting on the seventh hundred million in support of political parties is not in the minds of humans. It's not in humans. That doesn't work for the highest level. Prime Minister, to speak of the need for a renewal of the Ministerial Fleet, which was renewed in 2015 and 2016 for 117 million. K. We certainly need to think about the carbon tracks. But at the same time, there is a contradiction. We're selling off the climate cells to get 4 billion. What should we need in order not to be fined when it comes to our return? Yeah, you see, we're driving oil, we're driving nuclear. This is what the international community sees. This is the message that applies to one of the most greenest countries on earth, sends out into the universe, to run on nuclear energy. But there are things to do when we burn tens of thousands of tons of coal a year. Is this to improve the level of carbon dioxide? No, it doesn't. A respectable president. I don't think I need this much further. My messages are clear. The people's party hasn't gone anywhere. We have not broken any promises, but we want to keep them. We would like more people to do the same, for in the last campaign, I can remember no better than that every spokesman for every political party has promised almost anything to be elected. I also urge all the people of the country to examine carefully who came across a crown of cards and how long and often they have had the opportunity to speak against it and even time to eliminate it altogether. I say, it's better if it's enough. We've got 77 billion bucks. with changed emphasis. It is often referred to as stepping outside the box, often talking about not getting stuck, as we have done here, and going all the time. But that is exactly what they are doing. We'll talk about tunnels and roads, we'll talk about the rest and this. We're supposed to talk about the people first. That's why we're here. I guess we're paying the most, for example. At medical expenses, of all people. How is that protected? You want me to tell you an example, since I have time to do it? Yes, if a person has waited more than three months, he has the right to go abroad, e.g. during hip surgery. How much would that cost? In fact, it costs three times more than if it was done at home. But you can't do that in a private room. No. Rather, the doctor may go with his patient and perform the operation abroad, and it costs three times as much. He could do three operations for the same money back home. Is that practical? Is this a real financial control? Is it savings? I speak here, and gather the billions of people I see in my hand that we could take in, as the invalid who has had to fight for his existence all along - in the government of every time. I've been a poor, respectable president. I know what it is, poor of money at least. But I have been rich in spiritual riches and wonderful people and family, and I have wonderful children. They'll never be valued for money. But it would certainly have been more fun if I could have done more for them and have promised them to apply what was commonly accepted in the community; music, sports, clothing, and all that. Promise them to join us. But the present government does not focus on it. She sees something else altogether.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u63	Mr. President. Indeed, there are many things worth paying attention to, and many things that could truly be done better. Obviously, our priorities could be in many ways different from what it is, but there are, of course, other good things to be taken care of. Hv. 3.m. Smoke. For example, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson was well studied in a talk on Thursday that in financial and financial programmes, we are in fact molding the community in which we want to live. What kind of community do we want Iceland to be? Do we want to live in a community where the people aren't all at the same table? Do we want to live in a community where those less fortunate are repeatedly punished when trying to get out of their misery, as is the fact of the case, with both microbubbles and older citizens? Clearly, the budget does not include the vision of what Iceland has been calling for, many of them. However, I would like to add another point of view and discuss just the question of whether we want to live in a society where smaller communities will never be able to get their weapons back. So I'd like to approach the budget today based on community political paraphernalia, but earlier this fall, when the Office announced that the Agency could not fulfill its role, could not meet its legal obligations because of lack of information in financial law. By the 14th paragraph. a law on government financial development, however, says that the Agency's representatives should be given the General Assembly budget for the impact of the bill on rural development in the country; yet, according to its review, it is not possible where there is no overview of the geographical distribution of income and expenditures of the state. Also, geographic distribution by the State, government - owned public partnerships, or operates in institutions that make much of their money. This is something of the highest magnitude. The legal rights of the State must not be acceptable to its institutions, whether in the case of financial or financial matters, to the detriment or to any other authority. You see, it is through budgets that the Icelandic government can actually influence based development in the country. That is exactly what communities throughout the country have been calling for. They are not calling for specific actions. They are not necessarily called for big business or huge labor places. However, they are calling for situations and infrastructure that enable them to build a wide range of employment roads so as not to be repeatedly in the position of responding to decisions that cut them off. In other words, they are calling for sitting at the same table, being able to fit in a proper way throughout the year, that roads are safe and move within and between parts of the country, that it can be used as real public transportation. In this context, e.g. mention the Scottish route that has been carefully discussed, including In association with based regimen. V.E.G. A travel minister appointed in his early task force to explore possible routes to subsidize domestic flights to form a Scottish route, but, unfortunately, the final report is not expected until December, if reported. It would have been more helpful for the task force to try to put the results ahead of the discussion today, but hopefully the government still feels that it has room to implement the task force immediately next year. In the calculations of the employment development organisations, the cost of the Scottish route is estimated to be some 600,700,800 million. K, which is a slightly larger amount, but it is easy to arrive later. How disappointing it must be that more of the legal committee suggested at 2 Corinthians 3: 1! drawing together between 550 billion and 550 billion transport events. K., especially when considering land surface conditions, e.g. east, where it's a long time to attack a tunnel to Sufjörður. Then the telecommunications must not be forgotten, but to create real equality between areas, it is important that network and telephone connections are the best available at any given time, anywhere in the country. In this context, I would like to mention an interesting summary of what the TV show on RUS recently showed, where they covered distant jobs and jobs without location. With new and better technology, it is becoming a real option to operate in such a way. I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity and to give special commendation to the EEA directors, while the Agency advertises most of its jobs in a way that is without a completely exemplary location. This could be done by other government institutions, and I challenge their officers here to examine it. Since I've begun challenging people, I would like to challenge the government and the budget board to see if it would be up - to - date to create a kind of job without a location pot that could be funded by institutions to finance the installation of an office or a position for employees working outside of headquarters without a location. In this context, I would like to visit only as part of the Group of Congress recently made it to Thyatira. In one of the places we visited, there was a very remarkable project going on that I hope all members of the Parliament take the time to visit as soon as possible, a research project by the Bank. The Blue Bank is a member of the Parliament's Development Center and is a partnership between both private and public members. Today, two employees are working at one position, but the project, which is trying to create income from their own projects, is well supported by the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs and Isafjörður. The results of the first year's work are truly encouraging, but according to the annual report of the Blue Bank, 70 creative individuals have worked 900 days outside the halls of the Bank directly. There have been 87 events involving 1,300 participants, eight development projects being combined, and five contracts were made for the keeping of the Trinity services. It was interesting to hear the fact that when the Bank began to operate in Thyatira, no other people in that town worked typical office. The Blue Bank opened a cohesive space with fiber optics, which, of course, was of utmost importance, and now offers a flexible office space that each of us can obtain rent. Markvist has been working to attract pioneers, dictators, and creative people. Many of the people who have come and stayed in Thyatira have been actively involved in the community, including the U.S. The offer is a lecture and is involved in the development of the local project. Thus, this project truly has the opportunity to be an effective investment in creating a more varied economy and, in time, a more creative ecosystem. Unfortunately, with the changed community, and it was a little interesting to realize that in the conversation we had there, many of the institutions that had previously worked as a community center, places where people communicated, met along the road, and had conversations with their neighbors, such as The bank and the store, et cetera, please be closed. It is on top of the above, so almost all of the decisions relating to community and employment at the Capitol are taken out of the community. The largest executives are controlled elsewhere and as good as any government takes place elsewhere. This has a negative effect on the initiative, ability, and association of the community to shape their own fate from their unique circumstances and circumstances, as the website of the Blue Bank says. The Blue Bank has tried to counteract it by promoting and taking the initiative in terms of population care. Then there is the fact that a representative of the graffiti, an employee of broken - down settlements, has an office in the Blue Bank and is actually working together. Why am I wasting time with each other? Senators to review this? Yes, because I think it's more important than ever that we support our settlements and have many other places in the country so interested in taking up the Blue Bank project with us. I think it's important. Councilmen and ministers are familiar with the project and support of its ongoing construction, both in Thyatira and elsewhere in the country. Mr. President. I have a dream, which, in fact, may be an extraterrestrial, where all the citizens of the country live in stable, safe transportation and close - up services, such as to form health care. There I must give a lot of disappointment that shows that medical institutions outside the capital area do not need 400 million. K. to attend to basic services. I repeat, in order to perform basic services. In particular, it is important to consider as EIG, an Eyjafjörður Community partner, points out that there is spread of expert services in the country, but not limited to the capital area. Especially important, then, is the fact that there is even more support to the Akureyri Hospital and that there is a need to start a building at the hospital on the first as well as to provide funds for the hospital to ensure services to patients with multiple problems. There's a lot of stuff in these budgets that I would like to come on. At the end of the day, I'm going to stay in the field of employment, where it's quite wide. As I have mentioned before in the public assembly, they may not be the most demanding lawsuits, but they are quite important, for they are under much of the government's income. As we know, policies on large issues under the committee are being developed, such as energy policy, innovation, cluster policy, and long-term travel policies. Work on some of their policies has begun and is clear to the end of summer next year, 2019. It is not to see that all this work and work is reflected in the budgets we are considering or that proper space is created to trigger changes. National economic stability, stability important to the economy, homes, and companies. With continued stability, the competitiveness of industry, the increase in its value and production is increasing. In particular, my concern is that donations are reduced for innovation, competition, and knowledge. However, it should be respected that in recent years, Rannis, especially technology, has been greatly fortified, which is important. It is important to evaluate the results of the activities of Technical Development Fund and shape its increasing role as it is being done, as well as to assess the environment of innovation through a new innovation policy that I look forward to to. All of this, though, must be considered in the context of what is going on in the world. That work is expected to take place in a long period of time, or between 2018 and 22022, but it is clear that the fourth industrial revolution is in progress while we are revising and considering things. I want to draw special attention to what the East Bridge says, which is the importance of looking specifically at the services of the country all the time when funding are fixed and making sure that they are using funds to do truly the service that they are doing to ensure all over the country but not take advantage of the opportunity when they have the opportunity to leave positions outside Reykjavík, as we have too many examples of. Mr. President. While this region may not be too busy, however, it is of enormous importance to the future country and should further strengthen it. I would like to point out the importance of looking to the forward development of the education system. That takes even more than that. To ensure the increase in industrial and industrial education in the coming years, but it is important that practical knowledge and skills are better intertwined with all education if Iceland is actually trying to take the lead. The current government Treaty states that Iceland should be responsible for the production of wholesome agrienvironmental products and that innovation and product development should be emphasised to promote structure, increase biodiversity, and use opportunities based on interest in food culture by sustainability and quality. That, of course, is the best thing to do. However, existing budgets have to be somewhat disappointed in agriculture but are not expected to be an increase in environmental issues but are expected to be a significant cut-off for both agriculture and research, development, and agricultural innovation. That can be considered unfortunate, but there have rarely been so many parishes in Icelandic food production, especially as a result of a growing number of tourists in recent years, and as a result, a more handsome way to build up is not to be supported. The government's financial program shows that healthy food production and increased valuable structures should be looked at in the article as well as on the prospect of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from its activities, which are very positive. In addition, ambitious goals are set out for increased innovation in the food chain, including food production. setting up a powerful fund that strengthens innovation and development projects in food production. However, it is not apparent that their ambitious goals are financed by reduced contributions to the seminary and that they confirm the financial laws we address. Few employment projects are as important to Iceland and agriculture as it is to support agriculture properly, to create by reevaluating agricultural contracts with the aim of improving the economy and the circumstances of farmers but also to ensure consumers fair prices and quality. Similarly, I think that it was less important to look to an increase in innovation in this article than it should. Consider some of the situations I have previously encountered, which are the opportunities to use our calorie and energy better to produce all kinds of vegetables and fruits. Why don't we grow to make many kinds of pumpkins that even grow in Alaska? I mean, the situation here is better for that. Why don't we subsidize more species to reduce the need to import and reduce the related carbon track? As we grow in gardening, we should easily be able to produce all the vegetables the Icelanders need and perhaps more. So I would have seen some additional contributions to Iceland's Landing University to promote research and innovation in the ability to produce vegetables and fruit. We should also be looking for more incentives to increase production and increased electricity subsidies for farm farmers. We should be looking for more uses on our energy and by means of energy production to increase all kinds of Icelandic production. The fact is that large amounts of food supplies are needed in the world, and there must be some responsibility. In addition to the opportunities for increased production, we, as mentioned earlier, have the opportunity to reduce Iceland's total carbon track, which would thus have to be brought in, which would be in line with the UN's sustainable objectives. Mr. President. Now that tourism has become the largest industry in the country, it adds added pressure to the structure of the Web sites and infrastructure. The Habitat data show that the proportion of travel services of gross domestic product was 8.4% in 2006, compared with 7% in the marine road and 2.5% in the production of metals. The economy estimates a total of 463 billion dollars of foreign tourists. In 2016 or about 39% of the total transport income in the country, which is more than water and aluminium products were combined. Then, in 2017, more than 27,000 people were serving in tourism. It is clear, then, that the article has become very important to the economy and, in fact, so extensive in the economy, that its fluctuations are likely to have a long way out of the reach of tourism itself. Potential effects would be e.g. increase the cost of unemployment if there is poor progress in this article, in poor business balance, in taxpaying, and in loans from banks. This year we see evidence that there has been a significant increase in the number of tourists in Iceland and, unfortunately, especially as far away draws the southwest corner. I hope there's a reversal of it by the weakness of the crown, but we need to keep up with the development of this article. So there is a particular concern that, as you can see, the support given to this article is reduced. in a significant decrease in donations for the tourism situation. There is concern as to the need for particular attention that the growth of tourism does not cause irreparable environmental damage, for it would simply be reflecting the problem on future generations. It is important that we continue to do the fine work that has been done there. It is also disappointing to learn that there is absolutely no response to the demands of the rural society for them to become involved in the tourism work, which has, in fact, been the case. The transfer of host tax was considered, and in fact, in the government's administration covenant. There is not a single word to mention the plans for the 2019 budget and to remind us of the UN's adjustment proposal to contribute to the maintenance tax. I hope that proposal is well supported at the council. Mr. President. We have been told at this council about the importance of increasing the distribution of tourists in the country, but following the goal is not to be seen in the budget. In the meantime, there are too many tourists who are not used to it. There is no evidence of supporting the construction of airports other than Keflavík Airports to ensure the true distribution of tourists around the country. In fact, the need for extra security is just as reflected in the Icellanda's review of the International Transport Programme for the period 2019-2023: it is important to increase space for aircraft, maintenance and development of international airports in the area used as backup airports. At any moment, about 30 aircraft will rely on two backup airports if anything occurs at the Cheflavour Airport, which today is impossible to make because of a limited space on the two. This means that under certain circumstances there may be considerable danger. It is important to accept the position as soon as possible, but there is no evidence of this in the transport program that is being discussed at the council or in the budget of the individuals we discuss. There is a great appeal for construction of infrastructure and services to the people and for answering clearly the call of the people of the land. It can also be noted that by means of investments in important infrastructures, such as the development of improved transport efficiency and a stronger electrical energy system, we are no less likely to pay off debt. It is important to not forget that by failing to build up and rebuild the interior, there will be a huge debt in which the interest is much higher than the desired one. We have certainly failed to keep up with them and have long gone into debt. Thus, it is actually a matter of increased safety, improved quality of life, and the necessary investment in building for future economic growth, which must be the priorities of the government wherever they exist. In this context, I'd like to remind you of the Community's adjustment proposal to be a much better way of managing a transport plan and adding 2 billion donations to it. Mr. President. The last thing I want to do is enter the estimated energy exchange and climate. It is important to celebrate a greatly increased contribution to climate, although I still feel that it is possible to do better, especially when large numbers of public parties are seen in the estimate of energy exchange and climate. According to the Paris Convention's objective, the 13% share of renewable energy in transport is expected by 2020. It is obvious that high fines will be cut out when the climate targets are approved, something significantly more expensive to Icelandic society at the end of the day than simply to live up to and do better today. In this context, there is again the importance of giving more immediately to the structure of the infrastructure. There are also opportunities that may include building up more energy resources, such as. by looking increasingly at a wide range of costs, such as wind energy, in which there has been a growing trend in recent years and opportunities for Iceland to use it to ensure an even greater stability in electricity generation. The opportunities to grow new forests can also be mentioned, but as we have often seen, it is necessary to look to more carbon binding along with improved energy resource efficiency and is happy that it is being done more fully in government laws. Mr. President. There's a lot of other things I would have liked to bring in about the 2019 budget, but I'm going to stop. Last thing I'd like to say is that the United States Department's good change proposals and hope that our world is on our side to make them reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u64	Mr. President. At regional councils, dreams are disputed about powerful settlements. That's it. That's it. But I'm not sure that they all can be met in the first eleven, twelve months of the government. I'd like to point out some facts about regional policy. It is the natural structure of itself, this ambitious groundwork that is supposed to be a full-sized plan for the four years. Current funding is now being added to the inflation of electricity, to speed up optics, to be added to knowledge and university sites. Flights are waiting for a specific point to arise in order to establish a transport strategy. This is not to say that it needs to be in the budget of the first episode. And as for innovation, I would like to point out that it is a billion people who are making donations or contributions to companies that want to benefit innovation, i.e. Invest. It is not to ask what sector that innovation is taking place. When it comes to negatives, we can point to, for example. The plant that is not strong enough. I've pointed it out myself. Of course, you can find things you want to see better. When it comes to transportation and all 12,000 miles in the road system, we can see 500 million. K. surgery, it can be noted that there is an increase in this, at least in the health - care sector, in the nursing area as well as in the shopping area in the country. When it comes to the billions of dollars question, the only amount of Promoting that these budgets are affected according to the original proposal, the question is why. A senator will see if he feels that he is too weak to respond to a recession in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u65	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Guðmundsson To give me a chance to come into this room. The fact is, the settlements of the country, and I think it is. A senator will agree with me about that, has been sitting a little behind. I could name the East East and the West. And if we take the West Coast as an example, then the Westerners were excited about receiving the phone money at their time, they were supposed to be saving transportation on the West Coast. But they could not be used, for there was so much expansion in society that it could not be added to a government assignment. Then the spell dropped and there was a collapse, but then it could not be done because there was no money. Today, we are at the top of the economy, so I must be surprised to ask: If not now, when? It is clear that experience shows that we will not react when and if -- I am not preaching a crash - the next crash will occur. Therefore I must call for it, and do it without hesitation, that we look more toward the settlements. Hv. A senator asks if I am sorry for these 500 million on transportation, e.g. In health matters, in equipment sales in the country, and in nursing homes Yes, I'm sorry for them, and in our changes, which, too, are grown up, they're done better. Besides, I have to say, first what? One senator speaks of these 500 million: At the same time, health institutions in the country are asking for 400 million for basic services. I repeat, basic services. I'd like to see them go there. I think we could at least have done better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u66	Mr. President. I disagree. A senator says we're at the top of the economy, we're on our way down as far as I know. But when it comes to this one prop-between which the contractions sound up, it needs to be taken somewhere. We can debate if we're going to take 500 million. K. of transportation or health care or of any other type. But I'm gonna come to the tourist service. Under travel services there are 2.3 billion, a 9% increase of 200 million. And what's this about? There are 80 million people on the increase in agriculture and 354 million on a so - called Land Programme for Protecting Nature and Culture, so even though there is a cut in one fund, it is being added to another. Money is being shifted between making better uses in one place than in another. When it comes to climate, I have claimed that the government is not really the key actor in action on climate issues. It's the pros, it's the locals, it's the companies, and that's us. The government will step up and strengthen, certainly. But when it comes to the task itself, it is just as much and even more so to those who are actors of the community in excess of the government. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator whether she agrees with me in that. Even when the budget is being ignored for cutting off on climate, it is more important to see what is being presented and all the encouragement involved in what is being done, such as. One thing I know is that it's about to pop, it's an attraction to corporate carbon binding in forestry and recovery of wetlands. There are such measures that matter as much or more than the direct donations made by the State on climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u67	Mr. President. These are very important factors. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is coming in. I agree in many ways, and indeed, if so. A senator has been listening to me, in other words, I was celebrating the climate activities of the government. On the contrary, I was not saying that there was a cutout for them, so I rejoiced that it was being added. I just want to do more. I miss, for example. in these suggestions, as well as in other suggestions that we deal with here at the council, including a financial bill, that no more public transportation is seen. It also includes the carbon expenditures that are actually reduced from the budget bill laid off by the right government, which can be called the right hand. I know we what we're doing. A senator wholeheartedly agrees on climate issues, that we need to take action there. Then I'm not at all, and I hope so. A senator or other listeners did not misunderstand me, nor did they demean what is being done. I just think we're at that spot in the battle against the temperature and the climate that we're supposed to do our part, and we have a chance to do more than we do. Though we are small and may not be important in the big context, we still have much to offer and can be exemplary in other lands. I think it's important that we stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Frisbjörg Elisdóttir, a very upbuilding talk, that covered a lot of what we discussed in this discussion on the budget bill. Hv. A member of the congregation put on strong coercion glasses and mentioned a number of interesting points that we can consider. I'm going to stop at one of them in a previous answer, which is agriculture and food production. The ideas as hell. In fact, a senator spoke extensively with what is expressed in the opinion of more of the legal committee. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator points out that there is little change in budgets in the language field, as an overwhelming part of the budget is bound in government contracts and farmers. In recent years, agrienvironments have been severely affected. We can name the customs protection. It's reduced. There is a higher cost of pay in production and a large import in direct competition. In fact, consumers'use resulted in consumers'reductions in farms if we watch their high value chain. I want to ask you why. A senator's ability to provide for himself because of the circumstances. A senator was very familiar with research and development and innovation, that we react to the problem through that system, through that policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, president of the budgetary committee, for this very interesting question. I don't think we've seen enough innovation in agriculture at all, and I think there's an enormous opportunity. As I entered it, it is not only in these traditional agriculture but also in, as I actually spent a large part of my coverage in, making better use of our warm water and energy resources. Consider, for example, a country such as the Netherlands, which is creating the whole world in greenhouses with electricity - I'm not going too big to say - in many respects less than our pure electricity. There are huge greenhouses where all kinds of food are being produced, and the tulips must not be forgotten. I think it's a huge opportunity for Iceland and Iceland to look this way and also for something more valuable than grouses, tomatoes and peppers. We have a very pleasant and cool example of this at the Egls, where Wasabi is being successfully cultivated, which is a root that is particularly useful for the development of the income in Iceland. She wants dark and full of water, and we have plenty of both. I think this is a particularly good example of how innovation in agriculture can contribute a great deal to Iceland and the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answer and opinions on these factors are research, evolution, and innovation when it comes to food production. I'm going to read out the opinion of the greater part, with the permission of a president: ▪ The more part suggests that preparing financial and the next budget will be considered for an increase in food production as a result of the trend towards an increase in value production, including food production. with the targeted cooperation of the institutions of the state of agriculture, food research, and development. We certainly share what we think. A senator who was sick. In his speech, a senator made a very good account of himself. I want to reiterate it. Hv. A senator also admitted that we should make use of the funds in this area. I call attention to an adjustment proposal presented in a committee article on page 18. 33, with a proposal of about 30 million. K. a temporary contribution to the National Farm Institute of Iceland due to increased research that will be purchased by the Department of Employment and Development for this very purpose. Hv. In his speech, a senator addressed it. It is important that we combine knowledge, research institutions, educational institutions, and connect these to use resources most effectively throughout the country. The money we put on this job to reflect on the budget and bill. I believe clustering is an answer. I'm asking why. Councilman: In the labor group. A senator is involved, what is the focus of that group?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good question again. The answer, perhaps, is that we do not look at enough as a cluster service, but there is still time to change it. I couldn't agree more. A member of a malleer is something we should truly look at, especially because of the lessons that may include cooperation, learning from the experience of others, and avoiding the mistakes of others. Outwardly, a company has an opportunity to work together and to produce Icelandic products and Icelandic productions, which I find very exciting. Hv. A senator also spoke of the proposal of a greater proportion of legal committees of about 30 million. K. increase to the University of Agriculture, which is very good. Hv. A senator also spoke of increased cooperation between institutions in this field. In this context, I would like to mention opportunities that may include increased cooperation with the University of Agriculture, the University of Akureyri, and the University of Hólar - all of whom have developed some expertise in this field. These include university experiments to improve the use of external products that are not being used today, which are extremely exciting. I know that at the agricultural university there is knowledge of culture and other things that would be extremely important in that cooperation. I think it'd be possible to make a really fun deal with the growing cooperation of the institutions. Sadly, though, it sometimes goes a bit badly, seems to be, especially if the institutions are in Reykjavík. With all due respect to the smokers, it seems often forgotten that there are institutions and knowledge in a country that is worth and that is important to use.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u72	A respectable president. It may have been the right thing to say. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson earlier, that we are no longer at the top of the economy and that we are going down, but I don't think that we're still very high and far away until we reach some kind of wave valley. This financial bill gives evidence that there is a large amount of money available here, and there are positive things to the bill and the suggestions to a greater degree. The budget board. In this regard, for example, we find some commendable efforts on climate and on the advancement of the English language. I hope, though, that I will be respected for a better way of speaking, even though my speech prefers to what I prefer to do in this bill and these suggestions, as well as to understand what the United States has to offer. The Union proposes 17 changes to the budget of more than 24 billion dollars. and are completely financed by these suggestions. That's when the United States will expect a higher hold on the state funds next year than the government groups expect. It is sometimes spoken of as being superficial and empty innuendo and solely intended to make each government party look bad when it comes to bringing up each nation's conflict, while the suggestions of the classes likewise look good. That's what I think, Mr. President, is to some extent excessive. At least I can. They claim that the Conspiracy presents its suggestions in good faith, hoping to have them approved, and if not all desirable, though at least Somebody. Our theocratic arrangement assumes that it will address representatives of different interests and ideals. In the case of financial contributions, the difference between the classes is most evident when it comes to determining how to manage the quality and burden of society. It shows both in word and in action what their course really is. And the class policy is different, no matter what anyone says. There is a difference between the left and the right but perhaps even more so when it comes to extremes that look like each other, whether they teach themselves on the left or on the right or on some religion. Right men usually think that taxes should be low, even less paid, as the top right person counts. They want a company to have less taxes. They also want government spending to be as small as possible, but they believe that rich people use their resources for the benefit of others, even funding their own hospitals and schools, and all kinds of humanitarian matters. On the other hand, the left men believe that there is no indication of calmness and point to a massive prelude to their foreign claim, when rich people do not even trust to share in financing their own benefits. Left men believe that the community must have some means of equalizing the terms of people who have frequently arrived because of its uneven opportunities, the exchange is unjust. These devices must then be applied in a practical and reasonable way, but in a measure of moderation. Left men also believe that some projects need to be handled on social accepted terms, not on the subject of profit, especially on health and school matters. The debate on the fishing fee that the current government is going to turn down by 3 billion will well reveal this difference. Left men say that it might well be that less initiative will not be able to pay the nation, the public, what we think is a fair price for the use of our common resources. They must then look for ways to help them cope with these challenges, even finding more lucrative pursuits, but it is not fair to plan their large fishing costs and to be strong as well. The great and powerful can survive without the will of the community. Our proposals in the United States give evidence that we are the left category, we are equal. We want to see a healthy and powerful career in which the individual enterprise thrives and enjoys itself without risk of being swallowed by large dictators. We also want this job to pay natural taxes to the community that will be used in public service, both to help with people who need help and to invest in knowledge to help us become competitive and varied, and to live society where people can use their time and energy in other things than debt and huffling in bad ways through wear or waiting for their delinquency. We do not think that it is enough to do in the budget of building up the built - up infrastructure that was so tragic in the season when a violent capitalism was in charge of national affairs and could not be built up in the four years that left men gave to control the land from the land's haven of the nation's vessel. Our suggestions are to make the lives of the people of the country somewhat more bearable. Our proposals are these, and now I'm going to fire through the Group's suggestions, these 17 suggestions. We want a balance of 1.3 billion to go to a rural society who desperately need money to build wood because of the increase in tourists. We want 4 billion, as the government assumes, to be replaced by 2.1 billion elderly persons. We would like to double the amount of donations that are associated with microchips, allowing 4 billion to flow to them. We want to double child support from the government's proposal and put 2 billion into it. We want to put 1 billion to college, and 400 million to high school. We'd like to put 2 billion in the hospital, at the Akureyri Hospital, to the medical institutions in many parts of the country, we'd like to put 800 million and to nursing homes 1 billion, but to make up a 600-man waiting list at the U.S.A., and to secure the service of the U.S.A. in Akureyri, we would like to put 150 million. According to the Conspiracy proposals, the law would have 800 million and 2 billion materials to build up in transportation, which is now to be financed especially by road roads throughout the country. In housing we want to put 2 billion, to raise another 2 billion. We're suggesting 400 million. K. a donation in development cooperation and a proposal for a TV fund of 300 million. K. So now I'm covering all this up to make sure that all of this is a real solution that doesn't go away just because they're not funded. There are real people with real problems, and all of these are practical suggestions, and they follow every practical way to finance them. Of course, some of our funding proposals are not spectacular, but they are sort of visible, e.g. to be reassigned to a sugar tax in accordance with the recommendations of public health experts, which would give us a billion dollars of government funds. In addition to the fishing fees, the sugar tax has always been an international right - to - face thorn, for Icelandic right men are noted as candy pigs. We think there's a little bit of a little bit of money in the budget bill. We want capital taxes to go up, income-related fiscal taxes. We want to look for ways to increase the money we earn from the vast number of foreign tourists coming here. We want a carbon charge to continue to rise and to match what the progressive government of Bjarni son of Benediktsson had planned. And we want to see more resource costs than we know to pay for the relief of companies. The government's financial bill, as it now comes from what. The budget is another sound in the eraser. As famously noted, there is now a decline between discussions of 1.1 billion. In fact, you almost can see what you're thinking. A representative of the majority of the segments in the bill is looking for some sort of case where people are abstinent and abstinent. Aren't these people getting too much? There are few issues in which there is harmony and the need to eliminate the unjust arrangement held against a dollar. Still, there is no wealth left in it. House support gets 91 million. K. surgery to make some of the changes. In spite of little or no supplementation of the bill and the fact that more and more people are realizing that housing is one of the biggest interests in the public, housing issues are human rights, and despite the fact that the labor movement has put these issues at the heart of the coming agreements. It is about the simple right of each family to have a home, but it does not have to be in the wrong place for decades or in debt to the creditors by means of a loan system in this country. The British banks are found elsewhere. This is how discussions cut down 30 million. K. because of foreign affairs so that the funds it needs will not be provided properly for the applications it receives. However, candidates are made to pay $35,000. a fee that runs into the state fund for various projects. In effect, these are the only charges that Iceland and I have been able to negotiate. Another group where donations are cut down is nature protection, forestry, and the product fund for tourism, reaching some 170 million. K. a cut-off between discussions, which undeniably says what the inner mind is about. The same is true of nursing homes that have sent out a strong warning that they are headed for destruction. Only about a fifth of what they have thought necessary in their business is suggested to the nursing home. There's still a little bit of a board to cover. It cannot be expected that it will provide funding for the preparation of needed projects to promote public transport, to build up a proper public transport system that is under the name of the real choice for the public on the way out and to work. The process of creating a special space for public car driving is essential for the target of the regional structure of the capital area of economic development and for the relative reduction of traffic, which is one of the main reasons to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide here, as our commitments stipulate. In education and culture, there is indeed a joy, as it has been said, that a grand effort is being opened up regarding the preservation of the Icelandic language, and part of it is measures to support a publication that hopefully will give a good witness. I believe, however, that in addition to this ambitious effort, all of us may need to consider whether we are on the right track in Icelandic education and reading classes in elementary school, whether the emphasis on speed reading and error traps has given us good results or are well motivated by Icelandic children, young people, or the desire to practice it. I'm sure we'll have an opportunity to discuss these matters more fully when it comes to the proposal for Congress. The Minister of Education on the Enforcement of the Icelandic Language, and then we will also see how the Minister intends to promote the private media. Yet, there is good reason to stress that the state radio, which is one of the best sites we have for a living discussion in a living language, was to weaken. Among the changes made by the Conspiracy, and we hope to get consent is that expenses for a TV fund, i.e. Play a TV program under the National Movie Center of Iceland, an increase of 300 million. K. I can hardly imagine a better investment than this. She's well-versed in the language. Well, that kind of says itself. It also enables many well - educated individuals in this field to develop and develop their skills and art, and most important, a more powerful TV program is that we can do what is necessary for every culture: to look at ourselves and our community in the mirror that filmed the story can be when it works. We can quote Ragnar Reykás, Bibba on Bravalla, or Georg Bjarnfreðarson's son when we want to express ourselves about someone special but, at the same time, a typical course in Icelandic society. If we are to succeed in doing so, much more of these are needed. I would like to give a witness to the fine and respectful film director Ragnar Bragason, who we know even. From Fangaseri, as director of the Watch series, writes about this proposal on his Facebook page this morning. Ragnar writes, by permission of the President: ▪ The official title for the Icelandic television game - which has never been as desirable as it has held internationally - is an ignominious and highly demeanable bottleneck. In the business, there are enormous growths and many promising milestones in the carriers that do not get a track out of money shortage from here, but as people know, contributions from Iceland are the prime agent to collect strength from funds from abroad. As the situation is, a film fund, which is a crying little to play TV programs, or some 150 million years old, is just a fraction of expenses. For example, we do not remember Fang's campers being able to film the next series of events - even though a manuscript has long been completed and has nothing else to do with it - until 2020. It's shocking not to follow more rapidly after the success of both the country and the foreign. Millions of people around the world have enjoyed Fanga (such as Unable, Correct, Stella Blumkvist, and more Icelandic programs) through the Norwegian states, Netflix, Sundance Channel, AMC, etc. and the wealth of land and art spread in many places. I challenge the minister of the jury, Lilja D. Alfreðsdóttir, as well as other members of Congress to correct. It's a song, now it's a song. So many words, Mr. President, and I'd like to allow them to be directed to all members of the council. It's a song. We understand all of the need for the matter, which is not to be catechism, but it involves the unbreakable efforts of the minister to promote the Icelandic language and the use of it in the daily life and culture, which is so much required in English that some may even appear to speak Icelandic on the screen. A respectable president. In the Treaty of the Government, there is a promise that a university budget will reach an average of the OECD states in 2020 and the Northern states in 2025, as this was one of the main elections. Sadly, the government budget does not reflect these promises or the budget. Adding to that, it is so disturbing that university competitive funds and research have 200 million. K. a cut-off between discussions. It says about this, under the permission of presidents of the University of Iceland: In the United States alone, the average annual income is 4.4 million per year, but in Iceland there are only 2.6 million. Thus, students in Iceland receive about $1.8 million. Under the law, the University of Iceland has an actual increase of about 200 million. Remuneration is a large part of this rise, but the number of pre-payers is virtually in place in the bill for budget 2019. Students get 70% more in Sweden. Students get 42% more in Finland. Students get 85% more in Denmark. The students get 81% more in Norway. When it comes to high school, the same dignified president comes to the same situation. It'll get another 80 million. K. surgery despite a drop from year to year when the bill was submitted. There's a special reason for me to worry about trade and schooling. Despite the widespread and general willingness to promote such a study, there is no clear support for the professional school program in order to offer young people a wide range of training for life than can be obtained by reading alone. The information of Iceland's Teacher Association on the budget is moderate but quite blunt. The conclusion says, with permission of the president: A fiscal bill is a policy document with clear priorities in the state. KI miss learning things being taken more seriously in the bill. In the chapter on priorities and priorities, we will discuss various priorities and priorities. Discuss the State's responsibility for infrastructure and stability. It should make it clear that the State is pursuing a great education campaign. The future of education will not be set apart from economic prosperity to the future. As soon as KI rejoices that the government is in the foregrounds in public discussion, we agree that a knee has to follow. This is not done in a clear way in the 2019 budget of this year. So many were words. A respectable president. There's a difference between right and left in politics. That difference is evident in this bill, on the one hand, by the change in the length of the year. legislators and, on the other hand, the United Nations budgets, all aimed at responding to national demand for increased infrastructure, improved standard of living, and increased equality in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A public speaker. It is of interest to listen to many members of the Union who before the 2017 election promised an increase in income in one term period up to 403/450 billion, talking about a $90 billion expansion in two years as if it was nothing at all. Right starving - I don't know, starving wasn't what it was. A senator used. This, however, illustrates the art. A senator has studied his time in this council hall, that seems to be all in politics. I'm not going to chase after him. A senator of that, or that he allows for what I am about to allow myself to call presumptuousness, to act as if we were in the management section in particular, so that we could certainly identify them. Hv. A senator must choose his own words, I choose mine. But it's politics that I don't like. But I'm going to allow myself to have a word with what? A senator about one thing he entered, i.e. Hunting costs. It was interesting to me that things were bad. A senator said about them. He entered to the left, and expected to be the cohesion there, taking into account the small, medium-sized or thus-sized enterprises which cannot be supported by hunting costs. Or even supporting them in another business. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will consider his suggestions on these matters. Where does he want the line to be? Does he have a problem with the limits in the current system? Does he feel that they should be raised or lowered? Doesn't he think the percentage is high enough? How does he feel about the discount we are living in today's fishing system? [[The president calls.]] Many of us have talked about the need to pay particular attention to SMEs. Where's the line?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for his counter-sponsored response. I'm sorry if I've offended him with his language. It wasn't my intention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u75	I've got a wide, hairy back?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u76	He said that he did not like to follow through with what I had to say, but I could hear as much as he was immediately following all kinds of straps in my speech. The question was about hunting expenses. I believe fishing costs should be based on what well-runned and loaded projections are in place to pay for the use of the resource at a time. I don't agree that the price of hunting is for those who are weak, for those who are upright in their feet, to those who are in trouble. And I also remind you that the challenges I face are not often due to the fact that these makings have to pay high price for expensive fishing, but they do not pay for the nation. They may even pay large quantities and be falling under the high cost they pay. I think maybe some of the fees of these smaller projections could be removed, and the cost might be further contributed to the owner of the resource, i.e. The people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u77	A respectable president. I haven't been at a council in a while, but I don't think I've ever been in that one question I asked in answer. Yet, that happened now. That's why I'd like to repeat the questions, "Where do you think it is? " A senator's boundary? Who does he think is supposed to be at hunting costs? Does he think he has a date for the brideton? Does he think he means a percentage in business? Hv. A senator spoke of a well - equipped payment. How's it going, man? A senator to determine when a piece of work is well fired? In other words, whatever system it is. A senator and the Conspiracy hereby suggest support for poorly controlled, medium-sized, medium-sized structures. A senator has twice described his desire to come? And finally, the question I received did not answer: " What can I see? ' A senator will support them even in another business. A senator entered his talk? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u78	I certainly don't have as much Congress experience as I do. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. I didn't realize that I was here in a verbal test by my dog. A senator who needs to answer either right or wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u79	It's the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u80	No, it's not a verbal test, it's a conversation. Somehow I've thought of us as having a conversation, and we're trying to keep on doing it. I'm not an economist, it's not my job to wave some number back and forth and tons and thus to look like, but it's our job here to shape the general policy, which is then implemented in detail by those who have an education. We senators are not supposed to be in such a small administration, or a micromanagement, as it sounds to me. þm. Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Propé wants me to describe in detail. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u81	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson for his speech, in which he covered far and wide, mainly over the suggestions of the Conspira and a little over the difference between the left and the right. I'm fine with that. I'm gonna stop right there. A senator suggests that the bill was covered by a financial committee with the intention of removing those who are less fortunate. I have to make a big comment about it because it's an ugly game. It's a bullshit game in politics with a group that's not too hot for it, which is just not appropriate. The discrepancies for this group, or another person who doesn't have the same basis as we do, to cover numbers and grounds and bill and take steps to take on such a bill, will be much worse than the game that seems to me to play. A senator is playing with his colleagues in the United States. It is suggested that monthly compensations are being reduced. It must be expressed, and that's why I came up here, that it's not happening. From the time the bill was submitted to 1st. ... andnow into 2nd. the economic forecasts have changed so that they will rise in accordance with Article 69. Act on social security and benefits. It is important that it lies in the way. Since then, there is no government other than the highest. For example, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter took the same powerful step in removing an evil crown system by nailing 4 billion for this group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u82	A respectable president. There may be a misreading of the current news transfer, but that is still the case since the end of the year. to 2nd. their contribution was decreased by 1.1 billion. Several explanations have been given, both to suggest that there was some delay in the work of committees as well as in other explanations. However, there has been a decrease, and this is quite unusual. It's not my act or any of the other members of the United States Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The money to this group stands. She's not gonna be decommissioned. She's not going to be reduced to anything. It is true, however, that this is true. A senator came in, and it is important to maintain it in the discussion, with regard to the proposals of a transnational consultation group represented by the Synod, that there have been disagreements about performance, so people have asked to give it a little more time. That's what happens when we're dealing with budgets in one year, resources, that work is delayed. I would've rejoiced, like a dog. A senator, to be able to pay all of this and to want it to work. Most important, this will be system improvements that will benefit the future. Therefore, it is important to check whether it will last a month or two and stay after a year or not. It is very important that this group learn that we are changing the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson respond. They could have been paid to be backward, not had to be let out so unfortunately. I reiterate that it is very unfortunate what it looks like in the eyes of disability. I also reiterate that it is not our act that a decrease has occurred between two discussions. Rather, it is simply a fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator gave the talk, and perhaps particularly a lesson in the difference between right and left in politics, but he had much discussion about the difference between right and left. If so, I may want to mention it at the moment. A senator that if he thinks these budgets are right, he'll go wrong. I'm pretty sure if you let me and my colleagues in the Independence Party hire these funds alone, they'd look different than they do today. I think it's important to keep it. Because the senator suggested that the right politics may not be as good for the people as the left politics, I would like to ask them why. A senator into the progress that has been achieved in recent years, where at least the Independence Party has been in control, but not necessarily right control if this is defined. For example, in 2010 there were 40 billion people on the topic of disability, and they are up to nearly 70 billion in the next year. That's a 75% increase. I wonder how much trouble there is. A senator would have wanted to increase that number. Consider, too, the case of the elderly in which expenses have increased by 49 billion in the same years, or by 150%. This is a significant increase in both cases. I wondered, " How long could the wealth of the state actually last few years increase to the extent that it has been? ' Then I would like to discuss specific issues involving the disabled and the desperate. In view of the greater part of the legal committee, the development of disability and the growth of disability is well considered to be under way. [[The president calls.]] How does it work? A senator to help us approach the important task that, of course, should be a good safety net for those in need of such help? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For this fine answer, the faith of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir contained countless questions. I have to admit, I'm kind of confused in all this age of questions that fell on me. With regard to the last governments and their contributions for welfare I think I must remind them that there have rarely been external conditions in Iceland as practical as these governments have been. Not only did the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, as I turned aside in a talk, at the beach set the nation's anchor on a cruise, but I had--I might not now wish to thank that government of massive macropaths to the country and not thank that government, except for a small amount of massive travellers to Iceland, but these two factors and other factors became natural in this state of extraordinary economic conditions in Icelandic society. I may later try to back up the other questions as well as the other questions. A senator turned to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u87	A respectable president. Just so I repeat the short questions, they went out on how. A senator would have liked to see an increase in these language groups, on the one hand, in the affairs of disabled people and on the other, in the affairs of the elderly. In the affairs of disabled persons, the real cost has increased by 75%, again 75%, since 2010 and in older citizens' affairs by 150% from the same time. How can we successfully run this same system? It was interesting that the senator brought in these practical, external circumstances. I'm not going to argue that it was, but I also think we have to realize that we've just done really well. When I say we've done a good job, I mean, the whole nation, we've achieved amazing success in achieving the position that a government fund is facing today. That's even. Because we've been lowering the total debt of the state. They have dropped 658 billion in six years. What we pay for next year's interest is similar to what we contribute to transportation and communications. So it is important to use such times precisely to pay off debt, so we have more money to set up important issues, such as the interests of disabled people and older citizens. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's later answer. I don't think there's any difference, we've heard from the desperate spokesmen almost anywhere, and we've also heard from senior spokesmen, that there is a tremendous dissatisfaction among these groups, with how they've been dealt with in recent years. Not only do they complain of failure but they are not able to recover. I don't think there's anything wrong with the fact that there's been too much going on with these groups, especially with regard to impairment. You may be able to relate this to the success of reducing debt so much, i.e. they've forgotten something to trust the infrastructure and to trust the welfare community in the effort to pay off their debts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u89	Mr. President. First, I'm going to take part in the agricultural business and in the financial bill linked to it. It has to be said, as it is, that the budget is not very impressive when it comes to the agricultural business. Is that not true? And it must be said at the moment that the government is particularly uninterested in Icelandic agriculture, as it is observed. She has not moved the support he needs, and he deserves it. This is happening in the hearing of the Council at 2nd. that the agricultural budget still remains covered, about 108 million. K. to manage agricultural schemes and also cut down 25 million. K. to create innovation in the agricultural environment. Of course, this is extremely sad. It may be noted that the government recently risked the administration of an office manager to the Department of Agriculture and Food at the Ministry of Employment, so this is all on the same book learned, the lack of interest in the government in agriculture. However, national groups each in their own corner have agreed with conclusions on the importance of agriculture. In the case of an example, it cannot be concluded by the Agency's decision to ensure that the fair working conditions of agrienvironment schemes are held in high esteem when increasing the import of agricultural products. The same is true of the Independence Party, which spoke for the last election to maintain the strength of Icelandic agriculture. At the same time, they do not want to interfere with a customs contract that undermines the agriculture. If only we discuss this in the context of the customs agreement with the European Union, it is very adverse to European agriculture. I have previously stated from this talk to the tax agreement that will present the same opportunities for farmers in Europe as the European Union is given here. However, the agreement does not. I think it is necessary, and the media has made the motion of changing, that this contract will be canceled because of the smiles of the predecessors. Britain's resignation from the European Union makes our largest market area disappearing from the contract next year. It must therefore be renegotiated with the European Union on agrienvironment schemes. It is necessary, Mr. President, to engage in counterweight measures to minimize the negative impact of the contract in Icelandic agricultural production. In this regard, I come to the budget bill. It does not contain any means of counter-important action, no support for farmers to achieve a significant increase in competition from the European Union, and the imbalance between parties, Iceland. The situation of sheep farmers and fur farmers is difficult, and it is urgent that government authority meets the challenges of these articles. Unfortunately, the government has no vision for these articles reflected in the budget bill, no financial authority is required to meet this challenge. The budget of the 2019,2023 of the government emphasizes the indifference of the groups on agriculture. Let us recall the 100th anniversary of the world's sovereignty that powerful farming, Icelandic food production, and food security are the basis for a sovereign, vigorous population, and man - made life in the country. Mr. President. Next thing I'm going to do, I'm going to go to health care, especially surgery to a nursing facility that will appear to us in this financial bill. The rise in medical development between 2018 and 2018 is about 12.6 billion. With the exception of remuneration and remuneration. Much of this work will be carried out in a new hospital, but it is estimated that 7.2 billion will be spent. To them next year. In fact, the government has proclaimed that these projects will only be possible, yet this is the case with large amounts of money. The middle class has repeatedly pointed out that the construction of the new national hospital on Ring Road is unwise for many reasons. The party has stressed that there will be a new and impressive national hospital and that professional arrangements, regardless of the local analysis of a new hospital, will be made. The party has delivered its interpretation proposal. Health agencies in the country still have to deal with business problems because money does not come with population growth and increased pressure from tourists. This is especially true of the Southnes'health institutions and is also known as the Southland Health Organization, especially in the case of tourists, but the ongoing management of these institutions by means of a budget is making the situation even worse. In addition, there is a need for increased funds to buy equipment, such as at the Western Health Organization, and to support the services of health care at Akureyri. Additionally, it is urgent that birth services in the Western lsles will be restored, but for several years it has been lying down that has caused great dissatisfaction among its inhabitants and has reduced the safety of the food - bearing mothers as a result. It is unacceptable, and as I say it is urgent that this birth service be opened again. I mean, and I want to say here that I think the Western ears have certainly earned it. The nursing home plays an important and growing role in the nation's health systems. A lack of nursing homes means that older ones are associated in the clinics, which is much more expensive than a nursing home. The premise of solution to this problem is that the homes will be created a practical management conditions. A major attendance at the construction of a nursing home, which the government announces in the government contract, must say is that when it comes to the network of nurses in the country to which the government is responsible, it is in direct reverse. This class remains to be determined, as well as the latest transition from the greater part, the government categories, to a cutoff of 680 million. Despite the beautiful promises in the bill, however, only areas of health care requiring maintenance are the language of nursing and the rehabilitation of public health, prevention, and health care. Many nursing homes have been run by many who have been expelled for a long time. Depending on the demands of the nursing homes, it is not always easy for them to work with the income they are marketed for per day's expenses. The government's government contract gives us wonderful promises that we must consider strengthening the base of nursing homes as well as focusing on other services, such as home nursing, daily training, and rehabilitation. It cannot be seen that there are increased funds available for home nursing, daily training, and rehabilitation. It also has to be said that this factor is very important because it delays the care of older ones. As a result, the pressures of the institutions and the waitings will not be reduced in that way today. The increase in budgets for nursing, living and day-to-day refugees, which are solely to be set aside for new collections, their buildings and businesses, also appears to be uncalculated, as suggested by the Association of Enterprises in the welfare services of the budget and financial programme for the 2019◯2023. Clearly, then, there is urgent need to promote home - care activities and to increase the health of the elderly. This has increased the waitings of nurses, and a surgeon's office has expressed deep concern for the situation. In addition, waiting time has increased. In September 411 people were waiting for nurses on average. The increase in national waiting lists is about 20%, and those who wait at home often experience much insecurity and distress. Even those who wait in a hospital feel that they are in the way of others and that they are cornered. This has a significant effect on people's quality of life. The middle class places great emphasis on dealing with this problem. The most effective and early way of considering a surgeon to improve the situation is to promote home service, home care, and health care of the elderly. The Central Party proposes a change proposal to the budget bill for special funding in this category of up to 270 million. K. and thus divided, 200 million are going to strengthen their communities to promote home - care services and home care for the elderly, and 70 million to national health care, in order to improve the health of the elderly. These are necessary measures to address the present problem, but the conclusion is, of course, that there is a significant need to be added to the management budget of these important institutions and clinics. Mr. President. Next thing I want to do, I'd like to take a little bit of an important job. The financial status of many members of the enterprise in welfare services has already become serious. In 2018, for example, the State's contribution to its treatment area is 278 million. K. less than 2009 on solid prices. The pay rate is not sufficient, although levels in the therapeutic range dropped by less than 11 since 2000. Today, the State pays only for 1,530 checkers at the hospital V's, of the 2,200 annual registrations. During 2018, a waiting list of Vogs has been around 580,590 people regularly. The same can be said of the cancer society. The budget has dropped in recent years at the same time as pay, and other economic costs have gone up substantially. It appears that further cuts will be made to the Cancer Society in 2019 C.E. The central category is moving a change proposal to the budget bill for a special addition to the United States of 125 million. K. 50 million. K. to the cancer club. Some member members of an enterprise in welfare services are non-contracted with Iceland's Medical Insurance. This has been true for several years in terms of all aspects of the operation. The government hasn't paid for the U.S. O.A. parade service since the Iceland Medical Insurance Convention failed at the end of 2014. It's very difficult for the operator to be in such a position, let alone for a long time. Iceland's Hospital insurance contracts have often been up to one year at a time and often run out before people come together again. That's very unfortunate. It appears that the growth of the government's contributions into the health system is most likely to flow to the Land Hospital, which has received an additional amount of money each year since 2013. Even so, this year's legal management is up to 1.6 billion, and it is also at a similar angle in the next year, allowing for an accumulation of more than 3 billion dollars. The land hospital has persistent design problems, especially in the case of nurses. This results in considerable cost of extra work. The health - care problem is one of the biggest emergency problems the medical services face, and it is urgent that all ways to increase the number of nurses are sought. There will be an increase in financial contribution to this vital work. The contract for nursing and residence expires at the annual events and talks about the continuation of the contract very slowly. Is it a concern how governments approach this vital issue? More funding in the ministry is needed, raising day - to - day expenses so that they depend on the ministry to be served. Mr. President. Next, I'm just going to step into the fishing grounds and the importance of becoming self-sustained for the future. The marine road is a carrier pillar in the Icelandic economic system and a very important number of communities in the country. There are about 79% of the industry in fishing and employment industry from the farm area. In 2016 a part of the industry, attributed to the fishing grounds was 29% on the West, 20% on Eastern Europe, 18% in Western, 15% South American, and 14% in the North. We can see the importance of the fishing route, especially in the region. In addition, the marine road is for innovation, where investment is key. It is important that governments ensure good management conditions in this article and not overlook the high export costs in the seas. The hunting bill looks to the best year of this article. It is necessary to adjust the price for the future. It is important to maintain diversity in this article, and it needs to be taken into account. The price for fishing needs to be sustainable for the future and must not prevent natural investments. Icelandic fishing companies purchased products from Icelandic technical and services for less than 50 billion in 2016 and much less. This is not to be overlooked in the discussion of the seabed. In turn, the cost of fishing should be in part to build up in the home - to - be - paying businesses. Next, I'm going to go only to the government fees that will appear to us in this financial bill, the bandorminins of the so-called. It is a constant feature, as is usually the case with the budget, that there are changes to various laws because of financial laws. For simplicity, this is known as reimbursement rates, and they are typically set for years. Of course, these increases have high prices, raise the index price, raise the loans of the population, and fuel inflation. Of course, in the coming dress interview, this is a unwise arrangement, and I would like to encourage the government to abandon these plans. The middle class has stressed it in its language because, as previously said, it is to influence the community, especially now that difficult dress talks lie ahead. Stopping these prices and remuneration increases may have a positive effect, e.g. The fact that the bat could even restore a recent growth in driving and then be a big part of the work. The State's authority should be actively involved in reducing prices and not increasing beyond what may be considered absolutely necessary. Inflation has been low in recent years, and it cannot be seen that the State must be carried out in this way. There has to be a minimum maintenance of reimbursement, and as I said earlier, this is especially true now in the pursuit of collective agreements. Mr. President. Next time, I'd like to back off our emphasis on the Central Party, which will include... conducted in the Committee to help with the budget, the need to promote customs in the management of narcotics control. The drug problem is one of the most serious and difficult things in society. Stronger drugs than ever have set foot on this land. The use of illicit drugs causes individuals, families, and communities in abundance, and is associated with many criminal activities as well as health and social problems. Online drug dealers have grown and have made it easier for them to use drugs. In some ways, this trend has weighed down the propaganda in the fight against drugs. The rise in border drug control produces results. The central category stresses adding funds to this important category. Moves the pack to change proposals for the budget bill that gives a special increase to 100 million. K. To increase the international drug control monitoring, go to the head of the customs. The budget is divided so that 60 million people are going to increase by five places on the Cheflavíví airport, while the availability of these standards is expected, two trained drug dogs get 2 million, two cars for drug dogs get 8 million, and then nearly 30 million in equipment that are required to be replaced to use the best available technology in these products. This is a crucial series of subjects that we strongly emphasize that we will be given more money to deal with the increased drug crisis that we have witnessed. I'd like next time to find out what we're stressing in the Central Party, fighting social security. The social security index is an extractable lesion. Based on the studies performed, the cost of this lesion for Icelandic society is estimated to range from 6 in the range of 61⁄220 billion k. every year. It is a misuse of the rule on the limited responsibility of shareholders. It is similar with tens of billions of people in Icelandic society, and most of them agree that the problem is there and that the situation is not successful. Even so, there have been no major changes in law in recent years to resist social security. A social network can be described as dying, as it were, but its operation survives and continues to survive another society with a new social security number. In that case, it is condition that social security means the objective of the social network. To avoid someone, or all the legal duties of the club. Thus, the common people and others who do not look at social security numbers when doing business with them often do not see this change. The new Society rises from the ashes of the old society and continues to operate in the older society, and this form of conduct is reprehensible and illegal. There may be several ways to display a social security code. Basically, it is possible to sort into two groups whether the original purpose of the Society should be to fulfill all or not of its legal commitments. The manifestation of the social security number that likely first comes to many people's minds is when a society that sees to be unable to fulfill its commitment to the demands is lost. Before that, a new association is established by the older society managers, who carry in part items or all the old society's assets on the price or without paying them anything for it. The new partner is often employed in the same business name as the older one, thus a business venture. So the operation can continue in the new society, and the early society's debt is cleansed. It can be defined as a deliberate, frequent, systematic failure of associates, which occurs with deceitful or illegal intent to avoid taxes and other legal obligations, including to employees, and to continue the activities of the profitable part of the business through a new society. Social networking can also include continued activity under the same name; the directors of the new society are the same as the former society or close to them. The staff of the older society will continue to work at the new society and/or bankruptcy will be included in a partner kit. The violation of treaties is against treatal or legal commitments that can result in exclusive or penalties. This region has not been compiled on the extent of social security, nor has there been information on the proportion of social security indicators of total bankruptcy, but a government taxpayer's staff recently estimated that taxes were over 80 billion dollars. Less a year's basis than society's activities indicated that they should be. In October 2013, Iceland's Common Association issued a report evaluating community damage from social security and providing suggestions on how to manage social security. It shows that between March 1, 2012, and January 24, 2013, there were demands on a group's swelling beds with a rate of less than 166 billion. Only 5.2 billion collects, 3.1%. This is a severe lesion, and a student's study with the University of Business at Reykjavík, in 2005, shows that more than 73% of the organisation's executives, who were enrolled in the study, feel that they have been harmed by social security. Of these, more than one third of the executives of their companies were injured by a social security report more than six times. The survey included 600 companies. The result is strong evidence that the scope of the social security index is considerable here. So the middle class proposes a change in the bill to put 120 million into the fight against social security. The amount was divided between 60 million and 60 million to the tax investigator and to the governor of the tax. Mr. President. So I've finished with the budget bill and the main focus of the Central Party on that subject. I'd like to finally assume that the Middle Party's new proposals are well-finished. For example, the reduction in carbon cost by 2.3 billion is made up of payment through the bank and a contribution to micromanagement of 1.1 billion is made up of 800 million. K. a donation due to a delay in Icelandic English education and 300 million. K. money from the state banks. [[The president calls.]] Other suggestions are funded with the amount of money that comes in and is reached by a special campaign against social security.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u90	Mr. President. After such a long talk, there is little left to say. Still, I intend to take a little time to review key issues that I find important or striking in my discussion. It may say everything that needs to be said about our economic instability that since the September budget has been submitted, less than 4 billion have been changed. The national hopes were too optimistic, so changes and actions due to a cooling economy are now being made. This is what we have in the STUDY repeatedly noted in previous financial discussions, in discussions about the five - year financial programme of the government in spring as well as in 1st. of budgets only a few weeks ago. The response of the government to revised national ideals was simply to cut down prior promises of growth, primarily in health and welfare matters, about 7 billion and then to add a number of nicknames, depending on the big picture. When we returned, we realized that in the first edition, there was too much optimism about the economic outlook, we talked about closer to keeping the expansion in check, rather using the discipline and efficiency needed to make the best use of the government's resources, probably after more effort it would be to exploit public interests. We warned that the government fell into the trap of using budget increase as a primary measure of work without the necessary vision for each issue, policy development, and priorities. But they were not listening to us, they were not listening in September, so the government's reaction to worsening government management is normally taking down expenses from the bill presented in mid - September. As is well known, the Allied Fundament Committee was introduced, handed out at the beginning of the last week, and stamped it. I have no doubt that in a sense they were difficult for the government to perform. When faced with such difficult measures, it is extremely important for those who are faced with decisions, but not least for those who suffer, to be used in some statistical analysis. What are the measurable effectiveness objectives, e.g. In health, in preemptives, in the case of the elderly and incompetent? And what are they in education? You see, there's the same recipe for developing as in health and health matters, non-sighten expenses, clear policies, and measurable standards. This need to be summed up, and it needs to be done without supporting the priorities that could be based on what is so painfully missing. In education, e.g. There was a large attendance at trade and schooling, but schools offering such studies, like Technologies School, had to be referred to in the fall. For the welfare issue, the main focus is to see a cutoff of about 1.1 billion. of the 4 billion who were going to improve the quality of disability, the primary cuts, if defined by the authority's words, due to the determination of the minister in which he wanted to go. It is obvious, however, that a cent will be removed from the mine, which everyone seems to agree to be an important priority, cost about 10 billion dollars. With that money, it would have been possible to get started in the first phase. I think some of the relevant matters would have remembered the months that could have been started earlier than is now said to be. Then there are 20 million people in Bjarkarfjörður, a center for those who tolerate violence. The 20 million are to ensure continued operation. It is good and blessed, but it certainly is not a big offense. In view of the apparent epidemic in society, this is not even an increase but a guarantee that we will maintain the same position. Added to other things, it's a little weak and it's enough. This context tells us, for example. that at the same time, 10 million are being put in place, and then I'm talking about the passage of the two, the subsection of the budget, in preparation for the horse tournament, 100 million to overcome the money-student, which I had not realized had so far been the most serious problem in this country, and 20 million to prepare for a Women's Council, which is truly the finest cause. All of this puts things in perspective. There is also no additional advance in the history of the Work force fund, which lacks 70 to80 million to do what is needed, and it would still not be sufficient, according to the big words the Minister of Social Affairs has had on the job market and the work that a victim should do there. In turn, to bite the head off the shame, plans are made to increase the cost of older citizens and disability by half a percent next year cut down. It saves nearly a billion. In other words, the government will not do anything to improve the elderly and the poor in their efforts to provide them with predictions of increased inflation in the following year. It is determined to result in severe disability in those groups. At the same time as we celebrate the nation's 100-year sovereignty anniversary, the generation who earned what we have today is experiencing considerable financial failure in the administration of the government and its love in the Icelandic crown. His eyes see who the sovereignty is, and what was the fight for. When reading the medical section of the budget, i.e. take two, are the clear lines that many important pre-emptive measures are simply on the decline after surgery; the mental health issues, the working out, the MSA, the activities of the cancer group, etc. At that time, it appears that the planned cutout for physical training is in the dough. It is simply a surprising vision of the long - term benefits that can be obtained, and it is important to take care of them. Perhaps the answer lies in saying that these are often private resources, but as is well known, they do not have the government platform, they are in danger of extinction. It is also interesting and sad to see that in the situation that has been dealt with considerably and rich in Icelandic society and in regard to addiction, the government's reaction is quite grim. FEW has declared the need for 200 billion. K. an additional program to attack the list of waitings that have been created there. The government doesn't show up, recognizes the need, but there isn't any money. Maybe it would have 200 million. K. The replacement of the advisers may wait a while. The contribution to the new treatment projects of the Land Hospital is covered by about 2.5 billion dollars. This provision is followed by continued graft failure and an extension of unsuccessable positions for both patients and staff, ablation that also has a chain-acting negative effect on several other aspects of the health care system. Will that delay call for additional expenses elsewhere? Or maybe less expenses? Is this coming out on a couple? Will it be longer? Who knows? Really, does anyone know? Then I'd like to discuss the waiting list. ▪ When discussing the funding of the health - care system, I feel that it is necessary to discuss a waiting list. There were recent reports of a surgeon's concern because it has not been able to work on just a waiting list for nurses but has increased by about 20% between years. On average, 411 subjects are waiting for nurses, compared with 342 after the first three quarters of their last year. In other words, it is cut down in the development of nurses at the same time that news is coming out of this. It's down a billion dollars. What, then, is this about the Icelandic health system and the waiting list? Why is it that they have become one of the primary characteristics of our system, one of the best indicators in the world? Surely not! For example, there is no need for a wide variety of here on a waiting list of measures such as hip replacements and knee replacements that have been widely discussed recently, and no real explanation is given on the fact that people's illness is the potential cost of sacrifice, in an effort by the health authorities in an effort that the territory of the system, but these are not the only buffers. In addition to the extension of nursing waiting lists, we can talk about a waiting list with psychiatrists and psychiatrists or with heart doctors two years to have an incinerative surgery for heart rhythm problems. It's almost no matter where you kill, waiting lists are the thing. The surgeon general has expressed concern over the effects of a long wait for nurses to have, both on the quality of life waiting and on the health - care system. This anxiety can indeed be transferred to all our waiting lists. It simply has to be a priority to spend time and attention in identifying how we can use the funds most effectively in order to provide national access to health care, without using a waiting list as the principal government controller. You see, it is a social agreement to defend much of the population's budget for health care. However, there is no social agreement that awesome models are a major identifying mark of our system. Mr. President. Transporters are cutting down over half a billion between productions one and two into budgets, but there is still no question of exactly what to cut down. I'm going to have a further discussion on transport, waiting for an environment and transport committee to finish their work on the transport plan - and yet not entirely because there is reason to believe that when a transport plan was submitted, the government declared that it was being raised by raising the budget of 4 billion and that for the first time the funds were put forward. So now it is being cut down about 500 million without the cutdown reflecting the discussion and work on a transport committee that has been over the last few weeks. In effect, this is a third way for transport in a short period of time, for in addition to the transport secretary's plans as discussed by the Environment and Transport Committee, representatives of the Independence Party of the Environment and Transport Committee have been very effective in identifying their own transport methods at the same time. So there are probably most exciting times ahead of us on the Environment and Transport Committee. Finally, it is not surprising that the government is now forced into the trouble of taking a healthy approach to the brakes, two months after the Law of the former saw, according to current conditions and economic prospects, and how quickly the first cycle was taken. The fact is, although I have been told of an unsolved cut between these two published budgets of the government - and I say unmarkly, although the red thread was cut down in the welfare service, there may not be so special in view of the high cost of that sector - it is a very large increase in paper spending compared to economic conditions, because it is still very uncertain in the maps. I don't think that new and submerged funds have any visual analysis, not that Congress world knows at least. Thus, it is not likely that we will face further consequences of economic developments in the near future. I just want to finish by talking about the first time we're going through business with financial policy, financial planning, and then government budgets, for the first time, uninjured by unexpected elections. When this was started, it was promised that the sum of money, or money, would be history, and we would be replaced by a government reserve to meet unexpected expenses. It's all in the name of increased transparency. So now, in the third year, we are under the law. The fact is, the reserve of the year was used in transport, at least for the year. half, right at the beginning of the year. We received funding from the government last year, and now, if I can better understand the situation when I listen to a rather fairyly debate about the state of Iceland, they're offering their financial expenses. We seem to look at the fact that although there are no unexpected elections to excuse the fact that we're going out and south and that we're not able to stay in the framework of public funds with these matters, we're not using the reserve for such unexpected expenses and we're using the funds for expenses that came, something remarkable, many surprising, i.e. to Iceland is sailing on the coast. It's all pretty interesting. I'd like to say one last thing. This is the third time I've come to something at the end of the year, Mr. President, I promise this is the last time. If corpses do, we'll continue this discussion tomorrow. Tomorrow, as far as I'm next, I'm expected to get rid of the Allied Employment Committee for the Government's Hunting Committee. Without being especially hopeful, it would be a great pleasure to see a reversal of the priorities of the government, which implies that the decline of billions of hunting costs of about 3 billion, about 3 billion, would be postponed for a year, even while we're working and discussing design of a new fishing system. The position of the fishing road is extremely strong, as is often the case with others in the economy. Perhaps a new day involves a different report about the priorities of the government. But I'm gonna make it work this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There were some things I cut off, and I'd like to ask you why. A senator will do more. First, there is a group of disabled people who have been given much discussion. In recent years, many have noted the extent to which this class is being increased and how much has been increased. The development of it costs is a 30 billion real - life increase, or 75% from 2010 - from 40 to less than 70 billion for the next year. I think I heard from what I heard. A senator may have some problem where a minister could not decide how to approach the matter. I'll think about it. A senator is familiar with the current process. There's a working group at work preparing proposals for the disability assessment system and a new forwarding system. I think that in that fine group all political parties are represented, as well as with economics how we can see this system becoming self-sustained for the long term. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament: Does she disagree that the transnational route is beginning to work out how this system will exist? I think it's pretty important that we figure out a way to build this important system so that it can last for a long time. We see amazing numbers when it comes to increasing disability. I would so like to have a conversation. A senator I know has strong opinions about how we can improve the national health of the nation, about whether other measures might help reduce the number of people. What does it say? Senator? [[The president calls.]] Does she want to cancel this interpolitic cooperation and cooperation with a representative of future arrangements?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u92	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer and a good question. The simple answer is: Not at all. However, just as I expect the government to do so, it is equally important to emphasize that not everything has to be placed on ◯hold◯, as I suppose the government was supposed to do by placing these 4 billion people in spite of the lack of results. It has been observed repeatedly, on the part of the Quantum and other organizations in the matter, that certain tasks that all agree that need to be initiated can be started easily. They don't mess up the big movie. An example of this is a centenarian. The amount of money that the government originally intended for this, 4 billion now 2.9 billion, would certainly not have been spent in vain, even though time had been used and met by people. It is true that there are people who have been waiting a long time, and that has been repeated. I'm on a welfare committee and I've listened to a representative of these parties say that it will not harm the big movie even if it's started. I turn the question back to the government's high office, with its four billion dollars. For expenses, going ahead of this cross - political partnership? This is an enormous challenge. The job's in full swing. There's nothing starting with zero, there's a certain point just about to be completed. What a fine protection this money could have been! But once again, as I think there is a lack of accurate review and explanations, aimwork, and effectiveness analysis of the money to be spent on major and important issues, there is also a need for people to see that there is a transparency in the decision taken. When it becomes clear, you wonder at other ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u93	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator agrees with me that it is important to achieve this system change, but these 4 billion were precisely planned for a system change. I sincerely hope that soon we will be successful so that they will be able to work out as expected in the budget. My next question is a two-way. I think I just heard. A senator spoke of the indiscriminately, that the budget had been raised, and had to be reduced significantly when national interests appeared. I can't quite remember what wording was. A senator used, but I ask, does she remember the change in percentages? If my information is correct, there is virtually no difference between the budget and the current percentages. It's a little bit of a fix. I think we're talking zero point zero in that topic. That's when I wanted to ask. A senator on the subject of the elderly. I would decide that she spoke of her not feeling that she was doing just that legal thing, especially since it was the generation that would have helped us gain a sovereignty and contribute to it. I certainly agree with her in that. But now, a 49 billion real - life increase in expenses has been observed in this group since 2010 or 150%. In the course of three years since 2016, the increase is 30.5 billion or 60%. That's far beyond any other topic field. At the same time, this group is increasing by 7%. Expenditures rise by 60%. What suggestions do we have? A senator on that subject? I heard she mentioned the crown in that regard. Is it really a requirement for the senator that there is a reason for joining the European Union and that older citizens should have it much better than they do today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a great idea. [[Up front.]] But to start with the latter part, I felt ashamed that this planned increase of half a percent was taken away. Other expenses to the elderly are not involved. I agree that in that category much of the money, much of the money in the country, is being spent, although more than elsewhere, there is more to be done. It's only political reality. But taking away that less - powerful, low - paying increase, 0.5% when the inflation forecast was being raised, I felt that I was not very great. I have to admit, I don't work at the top right now, but I've forgotten my first question. Maybe what. A senator can fix that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u95	The difference between...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u96	- Yeah, percent. No, you know that, I just don't remember. I'm just looking at the billions right now. So I don't have it. But as I came to the beginning of my talk, it was about 7 billion cuts, which certainly were supported by this national concept. Then a number of projects will be replaced. I mentioned one of them. So the cuts are basically in the welfare system but then some replacement, so I think it's about 4 billion. I don't have the percentage.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u97	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Pirata, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, has been reviewing Pirata's emphasis and will do it again in a speech later today or tonight. What I want to do and put into this discussion is what the people really want, how the people themselves want to set priorities in government matters, e.g. whether or not to add up expenses to certain kinds of cases or to reduce taxes or to pay off debts. Pirat's party has been getting Gallup to make a poll where people are asked to prioritize how they want to see the state's budget. That this voice might be heard, the voice of the people of the land, in this discussion of how to divide out of the box, I will pass over it here. This poll was conducted in spring when the debate was about a budget plan, which is the plan to set up the framework that the government since then has, the secretary of finance, to provide the budgetary bill we're discussing here. Now was the time. The chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, to join the hall which is very good, so I'm just going to repeat myself. I'm compiling a poll that Gallup did for Pirata's party in spring, something we've done every year, about how the people of the country want to get their priorities in terms of government, priorities from both the income, the taxes, or the increase in expenses. First, if we go over the big picture, it's extra expenses for health care at the top of each category of voters. The dressers of all classes want to put the extra expenses for health care. It has a high priority 76, has dropped slightly from year to year, but is at the top of everyone, while all the tax reductions, reduction of resource costs and subsidies, all of them reaching only their priority 46 and have dropped slightly or by 1 point since last time. It is clear that the country prefers to increase the cost of health care, a GPA of 76, than to reduce all taxes and pay off debts, which have only 46 priorities. It is clear what the people's will is in this regard. The country's will is clear to the next issue, which is transport. They're the jump guard from last year's poll. This year, transport has 9 points pervading education, with a high priority rate of about 39 followed by a very clear education issue coming directly to their heels. Since other complex groups have changed little or nothing, it is clear that transport is highly brittle. If we look at these numbers based on sex, women in general want to put priority on health matters, education, housing and welfare matters, the overall social security. Women above the brain place these lawsuits in greater priority, while men have more priority in transport and more taxes than women. If we watch dating, it's not surprising, but what may be surprising is how much these figures may be exaggerated in their dating. Health issues are beginning to weigh considerably less in 45 years of age and older, passing down by the 5How7 priority points compared to last year. The older ones are weighted and have increased by 81⁄213 points in older people over 35 years of age. This is some theme you seem to see about age, there are transitions, differences, 10 priorities over and over again, between those under 35 years of age and those over 35. The younger generation that uses the education system has a higher education rate, of course. Social security continues to be related, with little change in age, with 18 priorities in the group of 18 in the past and in 43 with a priority rating of 65 years of age and older. Not surprising. In 35 years of age and younger, law enforcement and security are less common, with 21 higher priority rates than about 30 for those 35 years of age and older. Again, there is a 50% increase or 10 points in the difference between those under 35 years of age. Visitors are young people's affairs, with 37 for those of the 183/424 years of age, to 30 for those of the age class, and their priorities are down to 20 and to 16 for those 35 years of age and older. Again, the leap is tremendous in this age range, over 35 years of age, or under 35. Tax taxes are so much heavier for those who pay it, that it is only understandable that it is arranged in that way. If we look at the situation from a farm, the transport issues are much higher than those of the capital area, the survey is divided that way, but you probably think that this is the same way in other settlements that are smaller in the other ideals abroad, but you can see this clearly in the capital area, where the priority score is about 35- miles and Reykjavík and Kragas, which is 10 degrees above, to 45 in other rural communities. Homing and planning matters are arranged in the opposite direction. While transport is higher in the country, the number of housing and planning matters is higher in Reykjavík, where they are in 28 in the Kragain, they fall to 21 and then to a minimum in other rural areas, where they have dropped to 18 in a priority grade. People in the Kragains are more interested in lowering income taxes than voters in other areas, and you also understand when you see a combination of voters in the votes that prefer categories that are ready to put it first. The same can be said of the reduction of the valuable tax and the income tax. In terms of the fiscal tax, the priority rate has dropped substantially between the years in the Kragaan, received at least a little more than 6 priority rates, but is down to 3 this year, i.e. setting the priority of reducing the capital tax has nearly halved in the Kragga between years, has become similar to that of other rural communities. It's so civilized, as no one might surprise you, ◯101- a language like this, a language like this in the city of Reykjavík. In education, there are the biggest gaps between college graduates and high school students. colleges put more focus on education, it's high, 52 top grades, versus 29 junior colleges, but put less focus on the welfare network. They use it no less, so that's understandable. The colleges prefer to put education first, but because of their high education and safer employment opportunities, they put less emphasis on the welfare network they use. This is no surprise. Collegeers are more likely to accept higher taxes and would rather pay off debts. Basic schools put law enforcement and security issues above education and rely more on the welfare and social security; hence, they have 33 priorities for 24 college students. Basic schools are less affordable to pay more taxes and to use tax money for subsidies instead of welfare. It all comes as no surprise. If we look at academic matters from the polls, then the regional ideals have a priority rate of 30 to035, while on national level it's a little higher. The regional districts have 30 constituted a susceptibility to the Great Reggional Districts, which have a greater impact on education. Legal and security. About a year ago, South Judicials, with decisive leadership in law enforcement, were higher in their priorities in the district than in educational matters of interest. If you have a small reduction in your priorities when it comes to law and security there and is dropped elsewhere, except in one place, the city of Reykjavík, where it has increased slightly, this factor has fallen over that whole and very much, by one priority level of 8 if you remember correctly, in the Southern District. Transport by votes. There, Northwestern elections stand out significantly with 49 GDPs in transport and have increased from 43 a year. The regional districts have increased substantially and have reached 45 and 42 in the priority range. Now the Great Regal District has also increased by about 10 to 12 points, with a priority score of 34 and 37. So the districts have taken a significant leap, and they also manifest themselves in the national sector, where transport has become secondary in the priorities of the citizens of the state's budget. They've combined their priority grade 38. If we consider this in the context of a reduction in taxes I entered earlier, the overall score is when it comes to all taxes; tax reductions, debt subsidies, resource expenditures, and such, combined 46, while transport is up to 39 in the priorities of the population. It should be said to this government that it must be done well in transportation. It's all over the line, all of it. It's a house-to-house business. There, the Northwestern votes stand back, the voters are only the least worried about them, only 11 of which have their priority ratings and have dropped, if I remember correctly, 43/4,5 priority points, while the people in Reykjavík are most concerned, about 28 in top priority, and so are the Krragga and the rest of the 21st. There are over half of the differences and almost 250 percent more concerns in the city of Reykjavík. The Council of Reykjavík must put this priority first if they intend to put matters first in the district of their choice. Tax and federal debt are mainly burned in the Kragan and the Northern Republic of Reykjavík, which should also not be surprising when you watch voters in these terms. Eight-point here, income. What do they look like? What priorities do the people of the land have from their income? That's where we see very interesting things. Health issues vary from 71 priorities to 81 depending on the income. There is no obvious context there. However, as people gain weight, their weight gain, as people have more between their hands, their priority is increased by an increase of 41 points compared to 21 points in those who have mentioned between their hands. That's interesting, maybe because they have more cars and more transport. I guess that's it. Education and education. It's a surprise. The middle class had done more in education and education. When taken, they were the biggest earners, and those who were the highest in income were the most important ones in the center. This has changed. This year, the highest priority of earners and earners has increased by 8 points, to more than 40, in the same place as those in the middle, with the intermediate income. I'm going to come into this for a moment when I'm going to discuss the housing, why it might be. Last year, they were most concerned with housing matters, grade 28, while the least of them had the income, which is understandable, 18 points, you would expect. Other income groups were rocking somewhere between them. The major change this year is the second largest income group, not the less than 250,000 dollars. which are the lowest income, but those with $250,000. ... andupto400,000K, he's a hell of a lot more worried right now, leaving 25 up to 30. We're getting more worried. This group is in a rented market, so it is not surprising. What is surprising, though, is that the largest earner group, with income less than 250,000 dollars, is significantly less concerned, with a decrease in priority score from 28 to 19. At the same time, their top priority in education is increasing, ranging from 34 to 42. Then you start watching it. I saw the same thing in the numbers one year ago when I considered one outstanding example, that was a Southwestern disaster. In the southwest, the emphasis was smaller, but the average was on housing, except for the income of a low - paying job market. I began to think: " People who have less than 250,000. ' is a lot of people who are studying. So the theory is this, which could possibly explain these figures: the people who are studying and most of them have less than 250,000. During a month, concern over housing is less due to the threat of rent: Mom's hotel has moved home, so it's less worried about it and puts it, for example. The top priority in education. Of course, those remaining in the tenet, the underpayers in the tenant market, with 250,000,400,000 p.m., are more concerned by growing rents. When it comes to earning, taxes, and debts, those with over 1.5 million earn most strongly oppose paying taxes and wanting to use more tax money to pay off debts. The pre-requisite value in debt grows from 7 to 22 after a higher income, so there's a three-fold difference. With the higher income, they prefer that the state fund pays off debt, three times as much as the lowest income, except for this group of people who are very low, with income below 250,000 bucks, while the income group is changing much at this time and fitting this into the premeditated hypothesis, that these are people who are involved in a tenet - rent and return to their parents'houses, so differently, are no longer concerned about housing. If we then take just voters classes, watch their priorities, we'll see as I mentioned at the outset that the voters of all classes put their health issues in first place, from 70 to their highest priority. This has increased by the voters of the Independence Party by 65 last year, making these matters even more important. The voters of some other classes who were more concerned about these matters, such as those of Porta's voters, are calmer now, for we have also spoken to them. We'll see a chance that Svandís Svavarsdóttir, the highest. A health minister, will be able to do good things in this language. Yet, we do not see that sufficient income is not being guaranteed, either to the hospital or to other health institutions. That's too bad. Something has to be fixed. This was discussed by the health institutions of the country that were sent to the financial committee. If Sakgis Svavarsdóttir is unable to secure business for medical institutions, she will lose much confidence that I believe. In any case, my confidence will diminish her ability to keep her arms around the party, although I will not give up entirely on her, she has been doing good things, some good things. I don't understand why she went to self-employment institutions first. Citizens are not against self-employment agencies, e.g. Oh, that's what I'm talking about. It's just a little disappointment. I haven't quite given up on her yet, but I'd like to hear her argument over why it's not being paid for the sector's resources for the health services of the country. I need those answers if I am to continue giving her a chance on health matters. In any case, voters of all categories put medical matters in first place. Then let's see what comes second, third and fourth among the voters. At the top-of-the-view period, transport is decisive after health care, or 43 with a priority grade. They're after educational and educational issues. This has changed dramatically since the last year, with the dissociation of the advance team, many of them from the advance category to the Central Party, and after that, education has leaped up in priority for the Agency. They also received the Ministry of Education, and they probably understood that the voters of those who were left to put higher education into place. Then there's like 30 law enforcement and security cases. So these are health issues and the next three cases of the forward group. The independent party's voters first place health issues, followed by transportation, 42. Then it comes to lowering the income tax of individuals to third place, interesting. Law enforcement then comes right after 29th. The Conspiracy. The highest priority for these voters is for health care. Then there's education, then social security, then transportation. Now it's left green. This is interesting. The highest health priority is accomplished. Then you get 53 education into your priority grade, then transportation. There are really two arms in the left green, that's the education and culture in Reykjavík, so you have the progressive memory, some would call it, in the country region, and the region puts natural transport in high priority, so it's no wonder it's coming up there. But look what we have. We have a group that has health issues first, and we have appointed ministers to serve where there is great ability in their profession. Of course, even after the medical issue, the Ministry of Education and Culture could not be obtained. Although this was not the case, the same was done in cooperation with a group that took it. But it is not until fourth place to come to the social security of the voters of the VG, they get only 27 points. So it's no wonder, people are so surprised at why social security doesn't seem to have more priority in left green than when you see these numbers on the voters, it's no surprise. It's about education and culture and transportation. This is the country. These are the two arms. When voters put matters first and bestiality first on the basis of what their voters want, it is not particularly strange to see that the social security, welfare, is not as high as the other factors. It's finally getting much clearer. If we look at the advance party in the same category, because this is what has been said most about here in the budget, in the situation of disability and social security, then the voters there are only 17, while transport is getting 43 priorities. It's no wonder they're not necessarily putting the powder there, even if they're accepting the social minister's position. The members of the Independence Party are thus 21 points. So we have 17, 21 and then 27 with the voters left green. These groups just don't have this party in their top priority. Pirata's voters. There are health issues like anywhere else number one; the number two are the housing issues. Our voters are decisive in their choice, have 41 priority on housing, they want to adjust their housing issues. If you look at the numbers, it's understandable. The majority of our voters are not the youngest people, not the secondmost people, but after that, between 29-034 years of age, somewhere in this range. These are people who are trying to get out of a lease. The youngest people, as mentioned in these numbers, are running back home to my mother's hotel if they are going to study and, as a result, are less concerned about housing, the youngest group of years. Yes, this is what our voters put in most of their priority after health care. The following are educational and educational issues, which are also understandable according to age composition. After that, social security will come. But if we look at the numbers, what income is in this group, it reflects more than other income groups. A restoration. Depending on health matters that are similar to those of the Independence Party voters, a little higher, we'll get 72 priorities, education and education issues number two. Then comes transportation, and fourth place is the payment of debt, which is interesting. It is interesting to consider this in the context of the dating process. This is what voters said back in spring when we were discussing the financial programme that they wanted to put first, to divulge, to which categories they choose, age, economy, education. This is what the Americans want. Tomorrow, I would like to sum up this information and put it in line with what the classes have been praising in their government covenant and how it harmonizes with the budget. This is an important picture that needs to be included in this discussion. What do voters really want?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for an excellent speech. Thank you for sharing information from a survey of priorities to a subject, we can say. Much of this is interesting. It seems to me that the priorities in this survey are very different, like a whale. A senator, by age group, was very well - mannered, by terms of rules. All these variables need to be examined. Of course, we can take advantage of such information when we think about and discuss the context of things and when we discuss the budget such as 2nd and 2nd. I thought, for example. It's interesting, if we look at the budget, to the top. A government truly increases expenses to the largest topic areas. A significant amount of investment is being made in the health system. They're investing in a different kind of welfare but only in the health department. Transport is being invested and educated in education and education. I also found it interesting, because of that. A senator entered my category, the forward party, and the importance of welfare, that still happens at 65 k. per 100 k. At one ministry, to this great welfare party. My question to why. A senator turns to it: How would he react? A senator takes advantage of this information in his priorities?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u99	Mr. President. That's a good question. We used the exact information that we received a year ago, and Gallup made our priorities in the shadows that appeared before the last election. We used the country's will and reflected it in the priorities of government matters. There's something we should do here. This is done in some areas. They've been trying in New York State. There have been attempts in Brazil, in different places, to allow citizens or people living in the area themselves to set priorities for up to 100% of the income obtained by the local community or the area. People put themselves through a certain process. This has proved to be very effective. It's reduced inequities. This has increased the happiness of the local people. People have been very happy to get to these things. Pirats have not been in a position to experiment with these things, but I know that we are interested in them. But what we've been able to do is ask Gallup to make a survey of how the people of the country want to set their priorities in government matters and to reflect it in our suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u100	V.E.G. President. I'm going to reiterate what I said in the previous reply, it's very helpful to review it this way. I felt that the Obscurial Act proposed not only to elections was clever but really useful, not just for their voters, but for all voters who are considering these matters, in what the money is about. But it seems to me that the priorities that appear in the budget just go along well with many of the things we see in the shadows. Of course, the sums are something different, but the topic fields are there. Hv. A senator is a member of a group that places great emphasis on transparency and information and the use of the Internet and the electronic network to improve economy, and a member of the team at the bottom. A senator. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who is in trouble. A financial committee has worked very hard to increase, and that's why it's improving the budget, its production. He's had very helpful tips that show the opinion of less things. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator a little out of shape, because of it. A senator, if I recall correctly, was at a council when we agreed to a government law. Now the discussion has a little focused on the changes that have been made on the bill between economic forecasts. This is evident, therefore, that the economic forecasts take a little less than what we have experienced in the past few years, and it manifests a slight inflexible nature in the practicality of economic management. [[The president calls.]] There's been something in the conversation. What does it look like? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u101	We've had so many council members lately. You see, I had left the council, I think, when it was finally agreed. But I participated in the discussion about it and observed it. What was of concern to me about this new approach is the fact that great power was being given to the European Commission. [[Up front.]] We distributed money in pots to the executives, and that's what goes on with them. We'd get a lot of the budget, or those who agreed on this, from the General to the Commission. I mentioned it here because this case was often discussed before I left the council. I mentioned that it was very dangerous. I also mentioned that what could be positive is that we get a better frame on it, that it would have to be efficient, a whole range of good values to frame it up, and that we would get more transparency on it. Now the frame has broken by the executives because they do not respect the box, and even the advice to observe that governments follow this frame says: "Hey, you've crossed this frame, so the frame has broken and the transparency has deteriorated. What was expected of the council by handing over considerable financial authority to the Commission has not been made available to the council to which it was due. So we're in a worse position today as a fiscal authority than before those laws were passed. But that's good. Björn Leví is calling for these things to be called on a financial committee. I mentioned it to the highest. The secretary of finance and economics inside the dining room, and he said that I could tell you in a pit, that we should be able to call for more information about this under Congress law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Pirates won't stop until we get all the information on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u102	A respectable president. It's gonna end up like I'd like to start with, like, this is an omnipotent bill. We are in a budget debate that has not been widely seen in the Generals' activities. Apparently, it changed only during the crash years, where the budget was suddenly much higher, before it might have been finished in a day or something like that. We are in a certain debt, and I suggested that it be important to get a good discussion of the budget of 2 Corinthians. In the past two years, we have completely missed the budget talk at a very critical time in the induction process of public finance, where we have asked for clear financial laws, where ministers predetermine what they're going to do with the budgets they receive, how they're going to use funding to institutions or other things they haven't done for the last two years, and they're not going to do this third year in a row. To the most extent, it is still a copy of the old method of financing, not as accurate as it was. Previously, financial resources were directed to institutions and directly directed on projects that were extremely accurate, and that was not targeted because the basis for making these amounts was simply particularly high in the General Assembly. They were being adjusted back and forth without really realizing how they would affect projects or programs or schemes or what it was or what it was. So I understand the process of going into general budgets for litigation and paint, but at the same time, the policy must be met and the aim-to-target cost the Minister's estimated plans for the future. That budget may change in some way, but it helps with the future planning to improve the cost. If we are constantly getting the wrong budgets that are under or even above the sources we provide, we have data in our hands that say, "Please make a better cost plan." Now we have no idea. We had no idea before, and we still have no idea whether the cost plans are generally over or below. We have an analysis from the National Reconnaissance that tells us that a very large number of cases are over the authorities, but we have no idea if it really is good about the projects that are under that authority or not. It may very well be that we simply give too little money on a job that then reviews a budget because it is good for the project to do so, or it will bring a fine benefit to the future of spending a little more on the project now, but the Council has no idea if it is true or not. It seems to me that the way Congress looks is because I need to explain this a little bit more. If we don't have budgets in front of us, we don't know if it's a good idea to give a little more money, give a little more money, or don't. That's the situation we're in right now, we don't have any information on whether cost plans are usually possible, that your finger has not just been stuck in the air and guessed how much money the other one is, and this is about to cost you. In fact, the other way is turned in which money is first given and then determined on what to do, which is totally mistaken for the government law, as it should be on financial policies and goals. I had to get into these transparent budgets and why they move us and for the past two years have moved us to take a little seriously a discussion about the budget. We can't just tie up the discussion and pretend it's December and meeting late, and there's not a new government law that we're doing. We are at a very important milestone in the induction process, for now that we have plenty of time to review the budget and the next financial program, which we overreached for incursion in our time, we can influence the way we want to see it for the future. Then Pirata's proposals change. I'm going to go over them a little more accurately so that it's very well documented what the exact numbers that appear in the modification document mean. We contribute to the OPC and to the monitoring institutions on two terms to 47.2 million, which include 4 million and 43.2 million, on the other hand, on the basis of an OPC agent and 43.2 million for a state reexamination for a special programme they are developing. A three - part donation is made in the subject area 5. On the one hand, there is control of a worker who has one employment value, or 11 million to the national taxpayer, two percent value of an employee for both the head of the tax and the head of the tax in charge of 22 million each, in charge of tax fraud, a total of 55 million each. Economic, elementary, and information fields have 2.5 million for a national registry to complete specific features in the new national reporting system, which allows national records to register more than two genders. In the area of issue 9, Federal Security and Justice, the police are moving one employee to enforce the surveillance of a worker. Under it is the land weekend and the National Guard, supporting a total of 100 million. I'd better go over this again. A sustained increase in OPCAT is expected. There's a temporary taxpayer's legal rights and permanent control of tax fraud. In the case of national records, the warrant is a temporary but permanent addition to a public service account for the National Relations. There is a permanent increase in the 10th Environmental Protection Agency, one of the operating values of 11 million. Under these conditions are alien and Foreign Institutes, where we propose temporary financial resources aimed at submitting to a provisional requirement for the Foreign Institute. In a moment of extreme work loads and heavy pressure, we feel that it is incompetent to the next year. In the 16th sector, the value of two workers to the Contestance Commission, which is a permanent addition to 22 million, monitors competitive laws, increases in that topic. On the 23th case, for hospital service, there are 1,600 million at the National Hospital, which is calculated due to the design problem the hospital applies to. They advertise e.g. by a nurse and getting 0.6 applications for the advertisement, the situation is difficult. This means that they have a far more expensive design than they were in a normal environment, so it costs a lot of extra money. They have also calculated that they have been miscalculated due to collective agreements. A total of 1.6 billion. As a result, there are 800 million people in the management of health institutions, a lasting increase. A temporary increase is to the National Hospital of a University Hospital, for hopefully and hopefully this challenge will be solved. Ideally, and hopefully the remuneration will be correctly calculated, and this increase will not be needed, once the remuneration has been calculated correctly, the correct amount for what will be a permanent addition. In the 29th field, there's an error I'd like to talk to you about. It contains 13 billion and 130 million. This is not the right number, so we suggest that this feature slips away. In another fashion, a new form of robotic change. 476 points out correctly. The reason for the wrong figure was that there was a lack of time to bring up members of the committee and changes to document and treat them at the council, which made it possible for a number of missing joints in the earlier adjustment proposals to be added to this team instead of making three adjustments. This adjustment proposal could not be considered before I took the lead in a talk as a frontal speaker in my opinion of a second section in which it was being delayed starting a meeting because the adjustment was waiting for the change in motion to come out of print. When she left print, I went straight to a drunk and couldn't see what she looked like until I was confronted with my speech that there are over 13 billion in length on a maternity vacation. People began to wonder and wonder. paritaprevir Njáll FrinubertTrausti Jr.Friðbertsson asked me how far this meant to be for birth. So this is the one that falls away from this change. In the 30th matter, there are work and unemployment, and that is divided, 84 million. It is the 73 million missing labour fund for negotiations to last. The Actual Remuneration Act assumes that the State will contribute 0.13% of the insurance fee to him. This has not been done, but a contract was made that 0.05% of the insurance fee goes to the fund instead of 0.13%. At least it's missing. 73 million to fulfill the contract at 0.05%. Hence, we suggest that it be added, although, of course, the laws on how this is to be done should be maintained. In addition, there are 11 million for the Labour Labour Organization, a permanent addition. The addition of a victim is temporary, and as I had said about the management of health institutions, there are 800 million available to their operating grounds for a lasting addition. Finally, there is an adjustment in the budget. 460 7 billion and 650 million put on the task of cutting back a dollar from April 1 next year. This involves the adjustment of the motion on the roof. 476 which is a correction proposal, correction of the error observed in the previous revision. It has an extension of birthworm to 12 months, which, according to calculations, costs 5 billion and 130 million. So there's a correction of the 13 billion people that used to be here. A 12-month maternity clinic is expected there. The remaining 8 billion, on the one hand, are the income of 2 billion, which is a decrease or, in fact, an increase in the rate of fishing beyond the 3 billion that should be reduced. Then it is assumed that the billion who actually decline according to the same system will be in a fixed framework for smaller and medium-sized production. Of course, there's a shoot-out on the fish fees, but we expect them to be in real life this time for smaller and medium-sized outputs, not fake, as was said in the hunting bill last year, which was not so convenient. In fact, much more was being done, at least the more part of the proposal to make the major designs. Most important, there are 10 billion persons who have an increase in personal discount of about 36,000. A year for everyone. It's a rough calculation because, unfortunately, we don't have enough basis to make up the tax change, when setting up tax change here and there, how it affects the whole tax system. So we need to work with rough calculations. So this is about The amount, maybe a little more. Third, please change the proposal. 471, I'd say it was interesting. I'm not sure that anyone in my part suggested that the budget be reduced or reduced. I may well be wrong, I haven't considered it, but I don't remember having seen such things before. The proposal has a range of topics. Then I'm referring to a case, but not a lawsuit, because it's simply not possible to trace these documents down to a lawsuit, because it's about the amount of pay paid by the government, the amount the government claims to get from the Council, and it doesn't want to tell us what it's going to spend. You see, there is an enormous part of the budget of the budget bill and the government, to over 8 billion here, which is simply not within the budget bill. This cannot be found in the explanations of the advisers when they visit the budget committee with their corneal visions. People may want to appear in the accompanying documents of the Committee opinion 2 and see the introductions of the consultants. People can go to the bill for financial purposes, and then they can simply count it together, how they sum up. In fact, in some areas, there is a request for less money than there is a disunited amount of money, i.e. For example, some 100 million are requested - 125 million - a cut - down project. Then there's a bit of money. There's more to be done than you can get. We're not involved, but the government can have that problem all by itself. But we assume that the government simply does not get the numbers that are not explained. We will use these over 8 billion to finance our efforts and explain what that money should do. I know, though, that there are explanations. We've been told that they exist, but we don't get them, which is even more important if there's anything. I've reiterated my information request to the council, but we should, of course, be granted legal advice on the state of Congress and be able to clarify the matter. We're supposed to have it, but for some reason we don't get it. Some of the Ministry had a disintegration during their presentation, I think it was three of them, and one of the departments responded to the information request, the Department of Transport and Division, to them. The rest had nothing, but we'll see if it's next through 3. Um... it'll be interesting to see if. Then we can make an informed decision whether any of the funds they ask for there will change or not. It'll be nice to see you. In my background, I explained that I was going to save the subject field until later. At least I'm going to go over one right now, talk about the welfare issues in general. In the budgetary bill, an increase of 2.9% in the index price of consumers was expected to be 2.9% inflation. A 0.5% increase in pensioner or microenergy recipients was expected, etc. which falls below 69th floors. the law on social security, resulting in a 3.4% increase in the benefits given to the article and led away from that article. When a new national economy forecasts come out, the disaster target, the inflation plan, from 2.9% to 3.6%, all right, that's an increase of 0.7%. This means that unchanged increases of 3.4% would be below an inflation criteria, which is not consistent with 69. g. Act on social security. The response to a larger proportion is changing these increases from 3.4% to 3..6%, so you can understand this, and the numbers seem to match that. Then there is the 0.5% increase in excess of inflation presented as a cost raise in the bill, i.e. The level of evaporation has been increased by those who fall below the 69th. Act on social security. The promise given under the law now disappears between 1 and 2rd. The law says that a double lock, as it has been called, should be adjusted for social security, which should be raised to a higher level, whether by the index of consumer prices or by remuneration. Remuneration development in the bill is 3.6%. We're aiming at a 3.6% index of consumer prices. In fact, a number of other factors in the bill say that these conditions are carefully planned. It's, for example. told in the bill that an anonymous raise is expected to be 6%. A lot of things in the coming weather will tell us that a 3.6% increase next year's pay will be very difficult, at least In terms of collective agreements, but there was a problem of 69. gr. in a nutshell. Here we set out how pay and inflation will be possible next year. On the basis of all factors, it is not too unlikely that the buyers will grow up and even inflation will also occur. Then we'll get reformers as far as 69. g. not to correct it afterwards, but to be followed only in 2020, i.e. A pay development programme and an inflation plan are expected, not to be actual pay development for the year or actual inflation for the year. At times, we may expect more pay development or more inflation, and those less than 69 C.E. will be provided. More money gain than that. Given that the premise is generally more cautious, it is likely that it is the opposite, that the criteria given in the bill for budgeting are generally in order to withdraw them from the roof that was there. I think it's a little bit serious. I'm not sure that when this was added in 1997, the purpose of the law was exactly that. This seems to be influenced by personal pay development or natural inflation development. However, this could lead to the problem that if the inflation later became less than predicted or less pay development, but predicted, there are some who even have to be in debt if the decision was made that it was just an additional gain. It's going both ways out there. In general, it seems more likely to go to this group as a minus. At any rate, I've submitted a data supply request to see what these increases were due to these terms in the social security laws over the past decade and maintained to the level of the law being added to each, each individual pay development in the year, and each individual inflation during the year. Then you should be able to compare how this has developed over the years. There are some data that you should use to inform yourself, how this should be done in the future, how much more so than the past, how much more so, and how much like it. There are other lawsuits. I might take the next talk. I think it's good to end my case with this legal problem and an interpretation problem with the 69th par. is used, in effect, and on the apparent basis of failure. It is said deliberately that predicting the degree of pay development in the years that will result in a direct effect on how much social security costs are increased, by taking a careful stand on the level of your pay development. If there were a higher salary development and said it was not 3.6% but 4%, the Ministry would have to raise the social security benefits of at least 4%, if the inflation didn't occur, the higher it would be. So now the Ministry has control by taking care to estimate the level of pay development, however, it has less control of inflation, just national interest and other places. However, by this means the Ministry can control the success of inflation as an improvement in social security for 69.3 p.m. Turn it up. Another method, the index, is systematic, restricted to national interest, but the other lock in this equation is bound to the Ministry's decision without any evidence, as is true of so many other factors in this bill. I make a serious comment that it is said that the next year's title increase is expected to be about 6%, at the same time as expected in a more conservative estimate of pay development of 3.6%. This doesn't match. That decision certainly affects 69 C.E. law on social security and any conclusions it holds on the budget bill and for the people in it. As far as I'm concerned, just the end of the day. Except for all the points to be thoroughly analyzed and explained, such as by pay development, as with the 69th paragraph. and other things, we really need to have a little discussion about the future of the budget and the financial work. We haven't had a chance to do that in the past two years, which was totally critical of public financial legislation, so we remain behind in this regard. I encourage everyone to come and express their feelings about public financial laws and how they would want to see that future work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u103	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Hv. A senator puts himself in a very good position. It's a legal committee. I went back to what I was doing. A senator by the history of a minority opinion and a fine term for the opinion of my second, which is precisely the case. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I can't resist a return to a counterargument that turns to public financial law and then back to opposition. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, a colleague of the tribe. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. Now I'm done with half my previous answer to explain. As a result, the financial capital, the criticism that we are to some extent moving the capital from the Council to the Commission. I'm going to run some committee party or something. For example, a member of the body of elders, mentioned on page 12. 5 with President's permission: The part of the argument is that the council is losing the financial authority turns around to a minister's authority to divide funds into funds, that the council only approves general authority on issues and litigation, but a minister can do what he wants within each category. That criticism, however, is not entirely justified. I really like it, and I decided to make it clear because I agree completely with it. Senator. There's a lot of good things about public financial laws, but I have to make a second answer. I just wanted to draw it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u104	A respectable president. Then perhaps I can start using the first half of my answer to commend him. The chairman of the budget committee for being present all the time and taking an active part in the discussion. I think it's very important and I'd like to see more of it from the highest. Counsellors, perhaps even less. Um... but 1st. was like that. V.E.G. During the last term, a minister in the government was very diligent in being present. The chairman of the budget committee has clearly recorded it, and it is very well accepted. Regarding the question, this is not entirely valid because the plan of public financial matters is that a minister will explain in advance what he will do with the financial resources he receives, how he will translate them to finance. It's, for example. carried out in the package that explains how funds are distributed to different institutions to three years of age, which is a great improvement from a previous process in which institutions were only from year to year, with no knowledge of what they would receive next year. The problem is that even though agencies see three years in advance how funding they develop, they do not see the reason for their raising or lowering. There is no link between government policy and action, how it is translated into different institutions. Is this agency taking over the project or the other agency? That's unclear. Is this all because of paybacks, bills, or is something going on in a minus, and something coming out plus a back? That's very vague. That is what is missing most there, making this section of criticism valid.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u105	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I can agree with all that. A senator said here. Hv. A senator also said that we were making a turning point in this process, and I agree with that. These are things we should use for improving, fixing the information we receive on the bill. One of the goals under government law was just to trust in the welfare of the money and to improve what we call making financial contributions. Then there's the follow-up. We're making the budgets and what are the budgets doing? Why Do We Need to Increase? Why Is It Necessary? And that's how you might keep asking. This is, I want to mean, progress in terms of government funds. This is part of the stability and discipline that was proposed to be in the area of government. I think we're seeing it now, when we're going down into economic forecasts from what's been over the past year, that everyone has to go through all the media because the pay, luck, and prices are increasing. But in the bill itself, there are very little variations from the government budget. That's one of the positive things we see. We are maintaining our original goals so that positive things can be drawn out. A respectable president. At the same time, I'd like to say here that I can think of a lot of what's part of a committee party. A senator, a reform that is suggested in the form. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u106	A respectable president. I'm sorry, but we're going to have to spend our meeting hours on this discussion, and I'm feeling a little upset about that. This meeting is a time of great importance and value. Because we've lost the past few years of this discussion that we should have had much earlier, we need to spend a lot of time on it right now. There are two very good things that are most likely to appear here. The format of budgets is changed, which means that there is also a need to change our habits and our work around them. But that's not what we're changing. New songs call for new practice, but we're a little stuck in the old form because we forgot to talk about it in the past or in the past, didn't have time to do it then. Yes, the bill for financiers, despite all else, stays within this framework. But we don't have a basis to know if it's good. We have no idea because governments, goals, and measures are not costly. The watchmen and meterers on the way, the results of government action, are very variable between causes of rain, you have to say. If there was a connection between the operations, if there were good meterings on the outcome of the operation and if they were associated with the documents, I could tell you whether it's good to keep in the box or not. This is basically the problem with which we wrestle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u107	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss the budget in an environment that was developed some time ago. I've previously described certain defects to that environment, i.e. the process we agreed on. I think we need to reevaluate some of these laws on public finances at least in the presence of committees to this work. I believe that there is a growing improvement in the fact that the council is a significant factor in this process, but the Commission has more to do with the process than before. The system controls it more than it did before. We, who do not sit on a budget committee, have not had the opportunity to discuss the budget under our names. There has not been a single meeting in the Foreign Affairs Act on the budget, to review the content of the budget or the part of those who are attracted to foreign affairs. We have not had an empty offer or an opportunity to dig into the suggestions, change, or comment, and make comments or adjustments to the bill. Our approach is thus just based on the text as it is on the bill, which is by no means a reflection of all things. I've asked what this seat is. Why are the committees not allowed to discuss the matter? The information given to us is that it is the regulations established by a financial committee not to ask the Committee for the opinion of the budget. I suspect there are rules that have been generally accepted, but what about that, it needs to be changed, it's really annoying. I'm going to discuss foreign affairs later in this speech and try to make them my main focus, though it's difficult without having discussed the subject. While there is no such thing as dross, the budget is presented in a poor environment. The economic environment has rarely been as good as in recent years, as it may be. The State Fund's status is tremendous, especially due to the actions taken in 2013-2016, where we were able to collect large amounts of money from the fallen banks or from the so - called hedge funds that owned the banks and, of course, because we were able to correct their homes'debt. With the correction, we were, in effect, able to restore homes to active members of the Icelandic economy. Most of the people who have expressed themselves here tonight or are mentioned in this case have warned of too much optimism, that the economy is getting cold, etc. It seems that it is imminent, as defined by all the experts who have discussed the matter outside this hall and if indicated, the analyses or reports of banks that have come out recently. I find certain things in this budget bill that I'm going to kill on something quite remarkable in myself. I don't think I'm going deep on the premiums and all the numbers in there, but it's been handled pretty well. I have to admit that since there has been no discussion about certain aspects of the State Department, I'm not prepared to discuss certain items here. It is interesting, though, to see that once again the government spending is great and that it blows out. What's special about it is that it is done on the duty of the Independence Party that has been with the Ministry of finance in the past few years and, in fact, for a very long time, with the exception of 2009-◯2013. Government expenditures are expected to increase by 57 billion or by over one billion per day... or per week, as indicated by the Committee aluminium factor 3 less. [[Up front.]] - Thank you. I'm sure there's only more days in this year than 57. - In terms of 3rd smaller things, in terms of that. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thornarin, also stated that the administrative body will finance its provision for the sale of emissions, probably up to 4 billion, as the committee considers. The question arises, Does the greater part feel sure that we do not have to buy back such information in the future or whether we need to assume in the future financial arrangement that will bring such things to pass? They're speculations. It is all right to wonder, for of course, we do not know what the future holds. Is that some kind of resource we're selling away? There is something else that needs to be asked. The Independence Party has so far, although few believe it any longer, spoke of tax reductions. Last year, under the leadership of independents, capital taxes were raised. It was also promised to revise the tax stock and I can't see, no less than the third, that the plan is to keep that promise. Maybe it'll come later in the year, next year or in the vote season, at least it's not promised here. It's the wrong course, I think. When the State's debt declines rapidly, it should be noted that instead of expanding the booth, the taxation of people and businesses should be reduced, making such reductions more difficult in time. But continue. Even if that doesn't happen until 2020, I think it's in the council, or if it's in the plot - National Park bill. It is expected that it will occur at 2020, so the next year's budget will be covered with financial resources to this new agency, which will expand its population. It'll be fun to see if it's going through all the governments. The insurance price is often mentioned. It is, in fact, a very unfair tax that affects a company in a very different way. A company like, for example. are in a lot of service, have a lot of employees, pay a relative higher price than those with few employees. There is a big difference between running a service company on a fishing road or a commercial agency or a major industry with a small number of employees in comparison with the company. The government claims to lower the insurance fee by 0.25%, yet this tax, as shown by the opinion of the third subsidies, is due to a raise in pay. Therefore, the question arises: Does the small decline meet the pay raise? Is the cost of companies really downing? That's what gets out of my way. Is it not better to lower the insurance rate even more, as the Central Party suggests, and to make the adjustment of my third, and thus try to encourage companies to hire people and make further investments? I'm calling the carbon tax, another tax supported by the Independence Party. Now it's up. It is estimated that the tax rate is less than 6 billion and has increased by 50% since 2017. These tax increases are, in fact, amazing, especially when we have a group that has been working with the Ministry of finance for years and is actually fighting for higher taxes. Energy exchanges are linked to this, beautiful words and illuminators, and some of them are successful. I'm going to give you an example of the fishing road. There, companies have worked hard to meet the challenges, e.g. with new and more deadly vessels that are less polluted. In time, that trade has been a model. The seaside road pays for a carbon tax. There is yet another aspect of our imbalance. As she's competing with a state-gain fishing road, e.g. In Norway or Russia, the competition becomes natural, even more crooked. It is not enough to pay a carbon charge; it is also paying high - price fishing fees for many who weigh less and less on the industry - an unfair tax on which it is laid, and a good reason to reevaluate it. I think it's a good idea to go to that job, as's already said in the Senate arrangement. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson is a 1st transporter to evaluate the resources, to define them, and to ask whether we are going to charge resource bills or not. Why don't we charge that to all the resources? In what way? My personal opinion is that the tax system is best used, that it has an extra tax per cent on those using specified resources. When things go well, they pay more and if things go bad, they pay my men. The carbon tax, as mentioned, falls on the population. He lays more heavily on the land than others because both companies and homes have to use oil and gasoline more - research has shown it - than others. Farming is not the exception, and it is very important that the sector can compete, in today's environment, with imported products; I'm not talking about if we're going to let raw meat inland. At best, the government's attitude toward agriculture has been unexpected, since it is somehow always talking when trying to get some answers about agriculture. The carbon tax is the wrong course. The tax that the independent group wants to rise varies from one country to another. This is the wrong tax, especially since the government has no idea whether it will be successful. Therefore, it is good to consider this question: Is it so that this tax gives something back? In an inquiry here at the council, the Environment and Resource Minister was able to inform whether the tax will be effective on climate matters. So he is no more than an extra income for the State. It is about to add tax and interesting to see that independence and others are interested in furthering it. However, if the plan is to encourage the nationals to switch to electric cars, if we take it, it would be much better for me to know to take positive motivations. In 2017, 415 electric cars were exported, i.e. newly registered. According to the information I received today, the remainder of a year has been recorded around 544 cars. So you are tempted to wonder if it is not nearly enough to have a positive motive, such as. reimburse some of the purchase price on these cars. You could think of a 200,000 k. in a car, for example. True, it costs over 100 million, based on the figures I mentioned here, but in contrast, you can measure the results, and you will see what the results will be, and the goal will also be clear. Today, the goal is unclear, and no one knows about the results. Nor should it be forgotten, as indicated by the fall in section 3, that this increase in taxes will go directly into the prices and induce inflation pressure. An understatement factor 3 is suggested to continue using special property funds to buy and subsidies apartment loans. I agree with that, and I want to use this opportunity to encourage the more part, and in fact, all of us, in an effort to extend this law that is to run out in the summer so that it can be used any longer. In fact, the third part of my opinion is suggested that it be non-term, but I know it's all under consideration. But we need to, I think, extend this. For more information on older citizens and their markets, see the committee's opinion of older citizens, or pension payments, do not follow up on pay development, as expected at 69.3.3. Act on social security. This group of our fellow citizens have worked and worked and made society ready for the rest of us, and I'm sure these people can continue working. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's village has foretold that earnings should not be minimized. That is what we want to see, and we want people to be able to enjoy good health and work. It's no duty, of course, but I think it's also part of good health policy that the older citizens who are refreshed and trusted to work part-time, or all day long, can do it, can be in dealing with people and make us happy. Other factors are discussed in this view. It discusses the expansion of the Kingdom field, and lack of interest in agriculture is criticized. We're talking about operating for nursing and nursing homes, that there's a need to promote household services. We all agree that there is a greater need for additional support, hunting costs, requisitions, etc., and social security. I'm not going to go deeper on this occasion. I'm going to go over to foreign affairs. As mentioned at the outset of my case, it is that my clear unscrupulous method of not receiving this case under the name Generals is not being discussed by the State Department of State to receive, e.g. not the box or foreign chapter to talk about. I'll mention some of the following examples regarding that. I'll take it too, top dog. President, and if I accepted these rules and this procedure somewhere, she's just as stupid about it. This needs to be adjusted so that the discussion will be better and more careful here at the General Assembly and in order for the council to have something to say on the subject. Then I'm not going to throw any reproach on a financial committee I think did a very good job and I think there's a good reason to thank her chairman who sits here in the gym. The Foreign Service is the National Guard. Unfortunately, she is often and probably highly underestimated. There, although many may feel that the cost is high, there are relatively few people working there. We have relatively few people but are very able to care for our interests. That field of work is the whole world, except Iceland. There's no small work surface if we were to think about it. I think there is good reason to continue what we started in 2008-2016, to try to open up better, and to explain what is being done in foreign service. The pay line is growing by over a billion, as indicated in the section on Foreign Affairs. It says that, in part. is under way to support the implementation of the EEA Convention and to increase the progress of development cooperation. At that time, 300 million are due to increased projects of the government's foreign services. I wonder and don't see, at least I haven't yet seen, maybe I've overlooked how these 300 million split. What does this money go to? Where are the 300 million going? Then it is the development team - and I restitution that I may have missed it - but at a meeting of the State Department the other day, it was observed that there is a fund to be set up that should be effective so that a private market can apply for financial support related to some kind of development teamwork. If they have an idea of a project, they can apply for this fund, get money, and start the project in countries that are then on the list of these funds. If I recall, the idea is that this is about 17 countries, i.e.17 countries where Iceland has some kind of work. - Here comes the highest. I had promised not to talk for long, so I'm going to make a little hard. Where do the 400 million people in this fund come from? I can't see that there is any interpretation in the section on Foreign Affairs. In fact, I can't find where these funds should come from. That is one of the questions I would be interested in answering. Thereafter, developing cooperation from 0.26, I think, to 0.28, is greatly increased. There's no explanation where the money comes from. Are these simply new calculations, new methods? Or what is behind it? It is interesting, however, to see that there is an increase in the EEA Structural Fund. Here's a debate at the highest level. A minister believed that there was money that should not go there because it was a development aid to the European Union and should be used in other places. But I think there may be another understanding now. The greater part is then suggested that, overall, 95 million are due to our seat at the United Nations Human Rights Council, whether there are 30 million this year than 65 in 2019. It's very nice and nice to sit in this court of human rights, but at the same time, we've cut down and shut down our human rights office in Vienna, where we no longer have the embassy and ambassadors. We have a job, a very skilled and good employee, but it's been drawn up to save money. We have also failed to carry out our responsibilities in Strasbourg, but we have already secured funds to open there in 2016, and there is also a major stronghold to human rights. But we can put 95 million in the United Nations Human Rights Council. I think it's a bit of a hypocrisy, at least. President, beating on the chest and talking about human rights in this way at the same time we don't like them because we're supposed to be doing them. I'm just gonna go over the information I've wanted to get to the State Department. I expect to get some of them at least on Wednesday. Then I can take advantage of them. We have, for example. that they may reassign spending and reassign the number of years. I asked to get a comparison back to 2015 so we'd have some years to compare this pay force. I have also requested an accurate dissociation of contributions for developing cooperation, both two - sided and multisided. The idea is to see where the changes are. Of course, this is something that should have been placed before a Foreign Affairs Committee, where these joints can be viewed in the budget. I've been over the fund for business development. It is important that money comes from where it comes from. I've also requested information on the cost of next year due to Iceland's supply to UNESCO. If I remember correctly, the figures are listed in the budget bill. But what is the total cost of it? And why UNESCO? There are other international institutions of the United Nations that have my own knowledge - I recognize that this is my personal opinion - more business with Iceland and are linked to the contributions we have made in developing cooperation. Then it's mine, for example. to institutions related to earth's temperature or land healing - I don't talk about the equality or the waterway. These are the four main goals that we have shared in cooperation, e.g. At the United Nations University, in fact, a change is taking place. It doesn't matter that there has been our emphasis. Then we're suddenly putting a lot of money in supply to UNESCO instead of using the money in the places where we're clearly doing well and we're the best. I think it's very strange. I have also requested comparison at the cost of running a pass letter and an e - mail office a few years back. Then there's one thing I can't at least read from these papers in the budget bill - I say again and again that maybe it's my prelude: How much are these new emissaries that have been set up? I think it's a good thought, but I'd like to know how they'll be done doing their job. How much money is meant for this ambassador? How much can they do? Let's say an ambassador who has some country in central Europe, Asia or South America, how well can he do his work? Is bringing this home a tremendous amount of money, or is serving that Kingdom limited? Or the conclusion? I have also requested disunition of defense donations, including all agreements involved. It is interesting in this context to mention an answer to a question why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. It turns out that at the Cheflavor airport, the last few years have been in my own hands, but interesting in view of the government community with left green. I have also requested disunition of donations to international institutions and other institutions for a number of examples. A respectable president. I've done a pretty simple skate on this budget bill. There is more to mention. Today, there have been significant discussions of this cut - or - delay procedure, regardless of what we say - on donations for disability. I think it was a certain mistake for the government to go on that expedition, would have been closer to living up to it. If there is no agreement left to complete, it cannot be referred to microbubbles. V.E.G. President. I'll finish this for now, but of course I'll come up here again, I think I need it, and at least between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u108	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson speech. Hv. A senator concluded by claiming to have skated over. In fact, I felt quite well in the background, and I have an endless supply of questions. However, I decided to come up first and to respond to an excellent suggestion on the subject on committees, which I believe is very helpful. That arrangement was under discussion on a financial program. I can't tell you why this arrangement is so right now, and I think it's just a project for prefects, since then. A member of Parliament is chairman of the Central Party, and the members of the committee are involved in that arrangement. I can honestly say that there is a useful and deeper discussion on each committee. We're gonna go for a second. A senator had one common meeting, i.e. Yeah. It's a legal committee with a sledgehammer. The State Department's Department of State Directors, which has to do with the implementation of projects, agrees. I think that's part of the 300 million. A senator came in about the administration. But I didn't get everything down there, for there was a why. I'm an ex-fiancourage senator. The minister of foreign affairs then and has a very extensive knowledge of this class. The increase here is to further support the EEA agreement. I think we're gonna do what. A senator agrees that such funds are well spent. But I'm just gonna put in the release clearances in a later answer as it is. A member of the Sanhedrin took the lead in giving a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u109	V.E.G. President. I'm especially glad to see you do it. A senator and the chairman of the legal committee agree with my concern. I think the Senator will share them with me and with the rest of us who are concerned about this, that we need to understand more about the budget of the committees, so-called professional committees, or how we put it. The discussion here will be better, too. Besides, I think there's a lot of good things for the budget board to do. There is no need for deep - seated opinions from the committees. It may simply be some sort of statement that the committee ended the discussion, some of these, possibly some tip, or how it would become. But then it gives us private members of the body who are not on the financial committee an opportunity to look into matters further. For the EEA, it is, of course, absolutely clear that if we are going to do a good job, i.e. In knowing what's happening and entering the EEA deal, we have to have a much greater perspective on what's coming in the pipes, what's coming and what's happening. That's what we do. to have strong people for the council early in the process, then at Brussels, of course. It would also be most desirable if interest stakeholders could have more perspective at previous levels, possibly with some kind of presence abroad. Happily, though, a particular effort is needed to make this process clearer sooner. It's supposed to be a celebration. I'm not fighting people to put money on the increase coverage or presence of the EEA deal. Not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u110	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the conversation. I came up first of all to deal with the facts. A senator with regard to a review of the budget bill and the arrangement for it. We went through this very carefully with all the committees on a financial program. It may well have been decided later not to do so in the budget-based budget-based bill, but I'm not going to claim it, but we need to discuss it further, and I reiterate it to members of the council and members of the Committee, with the Supreme Court. President, take care of it, so you have the right to say it. With regard to sales rights: I only had a conversation. paritaprevir That is the case with Birgir Þórarinsson, who takes the third minority. This is a bit new, as there are emissions trades in an ETS business system, which is one of the main sources of the EEA's climate action. It should be an incentive for an enterprise to pollute less. So this is something new for us. These three countries, which are the only three kingdoms, understand me, have not yet been fully equipped with this system to sell sources. I think we need to go over this much further, how this is going to do it. However, it is with all non-busy-busy releases are offered and distributed to the EU countries annually by certain regulations. I think we need to call for more information on this. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has done a lot of research, and he went over it in answer to something very specific.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm going to try not to put the matter to that point. A senator needs to come back up and answer, of course he can't, that's how those answers work. But I think it's remarkable to remember that at the time, when this system was installed, I suddenly remember very specific talks of the former column. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who warned of this system, found that the economy, if I remember correctly, would be incorporated, i.e. that Icelanders would be involved in this. However, there is a question, and I allow myself to wonder whether the state should share in it in the manner in which it is laid up. It may call for more discussions and possible policy or something like that. Of course, we need to be able to answer what will be our future need, the immediate future, and the long future. It's gonna be a little strange if we--and now I say 'cause I'm going to say, 'I'm going to get into it -- and I think that's what it is.' paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farm points out, if we're in a situation where we have to start buying releases at this auction market, in the United States, we're in a strange position. To be financing things with these things with us to buy them back. That's how I get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u112	V.E.G. President. We have the budget for discussion. It is hoped that no one has overlooked the choice of older ones and those who have remembered among their hands is out of harmony with the general standard of living in the country. Those who only have money from social security are the worst. All of this is known, but it remains only to increase the basic pension by 0.4% next year. In fact, as noted in the case of many, there is no question that the pay period has been about 11%. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, representative of our Middle Class members of the budget. It would be wish to be followed by what is stated in the government covenant. The situation is that those with nothing else to support themselves than social security pensions cannot wait and should not wait. The system as it is now is too complicated and we need to simplify it. All the elements found in the system could be listed, but they are based on a first view, all of which are restricted to rights. The system is not tailored for those who need it, and more and more people are concerned about their survival. We can even see that. by e-mails that we receive, especially these days. In the Middle East, we have repeatedly suggested that the suggestions of older citizens on these topics have to be met, and I understand that they were difficult to deal with. So we should take them seriously. Governments have the means to do well, and we should make sure that everyone has the opportunity to live in a decent way, especially in this age group. You see, the people are getting old. At the same time, older ones are more at ease and want to remain in the job market, knowing that participation in a workforce brings those it chooses and can increase activity in everyday life. It is also safe to say that being active in work and play increases your satisfaction. The key, then, is that the one they choose will be made to end the work, often providing older ones with experience and knowledge that benefit many, especially younger ones. In the Middle East, we have made a big point of removing income ties from senior citizens' income, and we now contribute to the change in income from an older citizen's income. If we take out this income insurance, it will no doubt encourage people to stay at work - yes, or come back to the job market - and it's actually a little strange that while the workforce is missing, this way is not gone, but those who are older have full business at work. They should not be able to do so fully. In the discussion of the budget bill that has been presented here, what has been said most about delaying growth in disability. It is claimed that this postponement exists where system changes do not work as suggested. It is quite strange to continue the course with the ability to do the work, saying that this is the reason why the increase that was announced cannot be maintained. There is nothing in your hand that tells you that your ability to perform will work, so I understand that work is running a little low. To me, there is no need to wait for the system change. You see, theorists have repeatedly called for a dollar to be taken away, and most members of the Parliament agree with it. This is the first step that should be taken, and if there was a will, it could be taken even now. A large group is trapped in a poverty trap, and a dollar will have to be taken off. That's the key. The cost may not be that far from the 4 billion mentioned, at least initially, and in addition to the quality of life that people enjoy will be much better. We need to get started right away. This takes a certain amount of time to prove themselves. They need to see that people go to the job market. They need to see what comes out of giving people this freedom. I just want to put on Dana's work experience with a rating that was introduced there, that, by the way, I remind you of 2012, which was a bad idea. It was a sad experience, a lack of follow-up, and a lack of resources. In fact, experience is so bad that only a few percent of those who went through the work programme have received a permanent job that is appropriate. What has been good about the dance system, though, is that before the performance assessment was implemented, there was work to support, or what we call here on the country of work with support. This is from a work agency, and I hear it's doing pretty well. But it needs to be added. To me, it should disappear from the introduction of the work programme. On the other hand, we should first cancel a cent in return. Then, without delay, you need to start a conversation with a workforce, enabling it to work best with support. The labour agency website contains the following information, with permission of the president: For those who need assistance in finding work in a general labour market, work with support is a effective way of doing this. The work includes a broad range of support to those who have reduced work capacity as a result of mental and/or physical disability, help in finding the right job, and support in the new workplace. This applies to persons with impaired skills who need help with job search, job training and support in maintaining work at a general labour market. There is also assistance in the participation and training of a general labour market, assistance in meeting the needs and responsibilities of the general population. The applicant's skill is guided, not by his disability. The choice is based on individual needs. The emphasis is on good cooperation with employers. It is helpful to establish relationships at work. Support lasts as long as it is needed. A support network is built at the workplace. Markvist is decommissioned, but the employer and employee continue to have access to advisers as needed. To me, there's a service test needed. We already have what is needed. We have all of this, so it would be easier to make use of what we already have. We don't need any more groups, we don't need any more committees. All we need to do is make a decision and the first step toward all of this is to remove a dollar from a dollar. That's when the ball starts rolling. This is what I want to know, that we in the Central Party are making some adjustments, even though I have re-created this personal idea that has been forming in my head. So we make adjustments to the bill, in turn, a reduction in the amount of donations that are desperate, a sum of 1.1 billion dollars per bill, in the budget bill, will be given the original amount. A major contribution to health care is being carried out in a new hospital, but it was originally planned to spend 7.2 billion on it. It is now suggested that hospital construction funding be reduced on the land of the hospital because construction projects and soil work began later than expected. Work was also delayed at the treatment core, which is the largest development. We in the Middle Ages have repeatedly pointed out that the construction of the new national hospital at the Ring Road is an unwise procedure, and it is already seen during this procrastination. We want to stop first, take it now. As I said before, there has been a postponement of performances just when it was started. Hence, it is reasonable to consider the matter and perform a professional standard analysis for a new national hospital. It is specified that there should be no increase in funding due to a nursing home on the budget bill. It remains that it is not expected to create reasonable business conditions. The cost analysis needs to be primarily taken out of the sector within the households. I understand, very slowly. Thus, this cost analysis needs to be made with certainty what needs to be increased, but it is clear that priorities are needed in the interests of nursing homes, especially in this business. As to the state of the U.S.A. it can be said: The situation is very serious. In 2018, the State's contribution to the treatment area is lower than 2009 at fixed prices. Clearly, more is needed. Some have claimed that U.S. representatives always appear each year, asking for further funding. But, of course, the reason is that for years the budget has run out in October. It may not be possible to start a operation until April so that this will not always happen on October. At any rate, they cannot endure the year. Today, the State pays only for 1,530 checkers at the hospital V's, of the 2,200 annual registrations. At the same time, the waiting list is prolonged after treatment, and there are now over 600 people waiting. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the funds for cancer society are cut down, which is completely incomprehensible to me. We propose a change to the budget bill on a special addition to the UK as well as to the cancer club. I have considered only a few aspects of the budget and particularly the changes that the Central Party puts on top of it. I haven't specifically mentioned what has to do with agriculture. Also, I haven't set up a reduction in insurance fees or health care status all over the country, and there's more to clean up. I trust that my members of the Central Party are doing a good deal of compromise with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u113	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A beautiful speech for Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle's Daughter. I'm going to limit myself to one question or a discussion on a big subject. Hv. In the transnational group of ministers who have worked for a minister to offer suggestions to use the four billion that are earmarked for this project, a member of the council was able to review the effectiveness evaluations and opposition. As well as now, it's been clearly apparent. This opposition has been delayed by a senator. I agree with what. A senator in that we should use this money to unwind this wicked system. Hv. A senator tells us that we have all of this right now, referring to a employment agency. I think that's true in many ways, without any statement I made. I thought why. A senator will consider it well. If we use this money to turn off this evil dollar against a dollar system we want to do, I'm pretty sure that's the way it is - it's been said it's too much to go one step, with 12 to 14 billion dollars that we've been talking about - that if we use 4 billion on it, we'll get rid of the patch, and at the end we'll be able to do it completely. It's a bad trap. A senator came in. How can you tell? A senator can imagine using this 4 billion to start winding down the system, adjust the propellers, so to speak?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u114	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the excellent question. I can see that we're about to decommission a dollar, I think that's the key to all of this. Someone claimed that the question had been asked 2016 to the Ministry of Health, how much it would cost to go to that job, and the answer had been on the way that there would be 103/411 billion. However, they are not taken into account in return. The number will turn down. I'm sure of that. In my wildest dreams, I would claim that it would be the 4 billion, although I imagine it might be 5 to 6 billion at the end of the day. Still, I have some idea. I'm not trying to downplay the work of a committee that deals with performance assessments. But if I get it right, that job's been going on for quite a while. There seems to be no harmony between that committee and the individuals discussed, i.e. scarring. They express great opposition to this matter. Suppose we have a certain knowledge of the workforce. Suppose we have individuals who have gone through a job with support and who have worked well. Somehow I'm saying we have to take two steps back and see what we have here and how it worked.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u115	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We agree on the ground. V.E.G. Formerly, the social minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason was discussing this important task that we would like to succeed in. I'd like to say here and again that no government has in the past demonstrated just as strongly the game of wanting to do so. I say it like the highest. Minister, he's expecting this to work, and these suggestions will come out quickly. He also said that a natural induction could not begin until 2020, but we can certainly use this money to start winding off. I think it's all right. A senator crossed. It will make it easier to tear off the patch all the way. You're absolutely right, as hell. A senator comes in, in our tax environment, that if more remains in the pockets of those who accept wages, they will have more to offer to destroy. This is shown in consumer taxes and other things. That's why this money is probably a little less. But I ask why. A senator: When can we expect to receive suggestions from this group? It is often with such large groups of work that they have to take into account many viewpoints, and I think they'll be content with what we call a job estimate. When can we expect any suggestions?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u116	V.E.G. President. Now I'm not part of this team, but we have our agent over there, the government side. If I think this out loud and imagine where the opposition lies, maybe she's the one most concerned about the fact that someone can't be appreciated. What people fear is that if measured by 60% of their ability to work, it may be down to 15% the next day. And what will happen then? That's why I'm really trying to figure it out on my own. We already have something, and we need to see how it has worked. Why do those who are desperate need to prove themselves into a job market? What cripples will not be able to live up to their efforts to prove themselves to a job market on a good day? I know it's unfair of me to put these questions up like this, but I'm really thinking these things. We have examples from neighboring nations in which people who are not mentally ill have been left behind - who will accept? Is it locals? I'd think it would be smarter to look at what we have today, go into it. This work can be continued on the committee, there is nothing wrong with that. But having everything open, we can certainly meet the needs of the work we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-19-33.u117	V.E.G. President. In the short term I have here for a choice, I'm going to try to cover a few of the major flaws of an existing budget bill. I don't think I can get them all in this short period of time, but I'll also tore up some of the ideas we media have to do. The currently existing financial bill is another financial bill for the state of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The first service a year ago was a government bill because men did not have time to do proper financial work. So they were only given a budget bill from the government system, which was so tried to improve, but was not successful. This time, the approach was somewhat different from the conclusion. After all the work I had. The budget had been added to the budget bill between 1 and 2. So we were just pulled back to the Ministry of finance, and we receive a second official financial bill instead. Why do I say that? I say that because deep down in my heart, I don't want to believe that the most changes made between 1 and 2. are actually made up of the majority of the accelerator. The budget board. I just don't want to believe it. Now it's natural to think that in the budget bill, there will also be problems with the government, which lies in its composition. It is obvious that they are in Icelandic politics, which are the longest members of each other, the VG, and the Independence Party. There are a number of factors involved in this budget, which shows how difficult it is for these categories to get together and some lame events that highlight and reflect the conflict that exists between them. And the third category, it just sits quietly behind and passes over everything that comes. This may be the biggest news in the changes announced by the government between 1 and 2. that the poorest people in Iceland are still allowed to wait for justice by order of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter and, at some point, have heard of it, the highest. President. But what is to be expected when a government is thoughtless and thoughtless? And just as this group, a group of the poorest people in Iceland, who are still waiting for justice, the government has approached with a yellow root and a bat. The yellow root, in turn, will fall against a dollar reduction, but the bat is that a person has to wait for his day's ability to function with light and micromaths to accept a work performance assessment without having seen what it is or the consequences of its uptake. Now, the person being present probably worked for three years on a social security committee, but the ability to work was one of the pieces of which the Committee's work broke on, i.e. The evaluation was one of the reasons why the Social Security Act was not met fully. From that time on, I know a great deal about the worries of disability and the findings of the researchers in question as to the consequences of the recording of a job estimate. I understand those concerns very well. On the other hand, the current energy assessment system in Iceland has probably remained unchanged for several decades. As a young man, I remember that at that time this system seemed to be in the same place as today. In itself, the person being evaluated for disability in Iceland today is basically sentenced to life spans in that system, as is the case today. That alone tells us that we must make changes. However, this is the case, and now I speak again in view of the work being done on the committee I mentioned earlier, that it is necessary to start at the other end. It is essential that the State somehow ensures some part - time job contributions for people with limited skills waiting for this group after they have had their professional skills evaluated. This does not mean recording the assessment without safely ensuring a sufficient amount of parts of work that might be suitable for people with impaired ability to work. Mr. President. What if a person who has been evaluated by impaired energy, evaluated by 40% of his employment ability, was re-created, or made his recovery mean that he can now go into life with 40% ability to work, when there is no job. It's probably double the shock. We cannot offer these fine people the opportunity to do this. That's why it's necessary, that I think, to do something. We cannot allow this poorest part of the nation to wait for justice while a committee at work loses its outlook on future ability assessments. Therefore, we need to start already on January 1 to make sure that this step will be taken up against a dollar cut, which is the first chapter, and this 1,100 million cut down here will be returned. And it's not just an outcast, it's the best. President. The daughters as presented here will help this group to gain a more satisfying and happier life and secure life, and these funds will not go under the pillow of these people. They assume that these good people can live a decent life. In order to do so, they'll be using the extra money they get to do it, and there's more to it, and it's paying for this tax, and I don't know what. But this is not all that is critical of how the laws are set up today. In one of the motions of the Central Party, which is presented here in the less than 3rd part, we are releaving proposals that we proposed at the last budgetary hearing that professional earnings of the elderly will not impair their pensions. This costs about 1,100 million bridges, which means that this actually costs 700 million. But it has not been taken into account that these 700 million are returning to the economy, obviously very quickly. There is another major concern. This government has become a waiting list government. One of the things that are to come are to be found in nursing homes. Well, that's the way it is. President, one of the last things that is still sacred in this room is that we are not permitted to play audio recordings from this platform. But I want to, with the permission of the highest. The president, quoting an ad that appears quite frequently in the leading of the last election, sounds like, by permission of the president: We all know that our old people have been falling apart. That's why we want to build 300 apartments next year, work with the pension fund that would finance the project and possibly build to solve the problem of getting people into a nursing room or a service apartment. We have to do this for my grandparents. Can we all agree on that? Yes, this time I agree. However, there may be a 20% rise in hospital waiting lists. These lists have increased by 20%, so there is not much to be done for grandparents. Can we all agree on that? It is good to say that this promise is in the same place as all the other promises from this direction, i.e. In the trash with Swiss, English, Norwegian, Finnish, and incomprehensible tax schemes. There was also a mention of a high income tax the other day, but it also ran out. So there's not much more to it than there is. I would also like to review most of the suggestions suggested by the Central Party at 2nd. ... abundant. I miss the highest part. Prime Minister isn't here now. I know why, and I think I know that she won't be picked up to be here. But I will make it difficult for her to receive my speech in some way, on paper, or somehow. Because of the highest. The prime minister was on TV this weekend, and she said that she did not understand the Central Party proposal of 2nd. ... abundant. She said that she did not understand that taxes were less than higher. Now I understand that the Prime Minister of the Left Green does not understand that this is possible because the only advice of the left greens for years has been raising taxes if there is no money and then no matter who gets the raise. But now I'm going to explain it to the highest level. Prime Minister to the best of my ability in my speech. Instead, I'm going to keep it for the highest. Minister, when she's here for the game, that she explains to me from the Icelandic language that her subsequent words were not long ago given regarding the position of one government minister. She said, with permission of the highest. President: ▪ I have not been, and I do not agree with the view to maiming a systematic problem in unique moral issues that result from increased individualism and the individual politics. So many were words. But if it's the highest. When it comes home, Prime Minister, this means to me, I will now explain to her the suggestions of the Central Party between discussions of budgets. The middle class suggests further reductions in insurance, to the insurance bill by 0.5%. The decline serves as a basis for balance in the labour market, and next year's pay increases are less likely to result in in inflation. This may cost about 4 billion at first glance, but in fact, it does not, because this reduction in insurance costs is the primary reason why especially SMEs can employ people to a greater extent than they have recently been able. Of course, by increasing the work of these companies, government funds get more tax returns. But I'm talking about this with the preordained proposals for an expansion proposed by the Central Party, in spite of ideas of tax downs, savings. The central category also suggests that carbon charge will not be raised, that it will not be raised by 10%, and that the current rise will be reduced. This tax is unjust in coming down in the land. It has been observed that the government, as well as its spokesmen, is not certain of the effects of the good or the bad carbon pay. It also raises questions, and maybe one day I may be able to explain why this government puts too much emphasis on environmental resources that touch very little parts, if I can put it that way. The present - day level of carbon is a simple tax - the independent category, using proben, being committed to not knowing the consequences, whether it would benefit or not - directed to pollution about 3% of total emissions in Iceland each year. We had another example these days, even though this financial bill is not directly involved. The plan was to ban plastic bags. The man with the greatest knowledge of garbage in Iceland, the president of the village, said that plastic bags use in Iceland was less than 0.6% of waste in Iceland. And the person who goes to the store with a multiusable shopping bag, e.g. of cotton, must go 1700 trips to the store to get one plastic bag. Then, too, we have an example of people who go to the store with a multiused shopping bag to get in a plastic bag to use under the garbage in their home. That's the way it is. It is noteworthy, though, that there are people shooting off a little moon and going on things that are less important than many other things. I mentioned earlier that the government that is now sitting on the wait list government. It was here the other day in queries that in Iceland, there are about 4,000 people waiting for the most common measures and treatments. However, it has been shown that these 4,000 are only the top of the iceberg. This is information from the surgeon general, and I don't question it at all, but it seems that the waiting list does not begin until people are waiting for an operation. Now I've recently learned that people who need e.g. you will need to have a replacement surgery until 6 to 8 months after you have talked to your doctor. At the end of the interview, wait will take 12 to 18 months after the operation itself. This brings back memories. I arrived in East Germany shortly before the first election held there in the spring of 1990 and stayed with wonderful people who had been waiting 12 years for phone calls. We're probably on our way there, because in Iceland it is forbidden to perform medical or medical procedures if there is any chance that you can benefit from it. If you sell drugs, Band-Aids, stitches or needles or anything like that, you can make what you think, but if you cut out a doctor, give out pills, and write out the prescriptions, there is a total excommunication to profit from it. Now, Mr. President, it's not only that people torment themselves here in the lists of months and miss together, but that's the way a government fund leaks from these lists. Why does he do that? Because we don't let people in a cure in Iceland, where it may be cheapest -- not just possible, I come in after it -- because it's a private business to cut people up and relieve them of their suffering and it profits them. Imagine the insolence. However, according to information I have recently received from the Land Hospital, a local university hospital, the first procedure called major hip replacement operations is about 1,800 thousand. It's worth 1,800 grand. True, I was later told that this should be taken with caution because by more measures this could be reduced. Major knee replacement surgery, first operation, costs just over a million. The waiting lists, following the two procedures I was talking about earlier, are about 1,000 people, of which 700 have waited longer than three months. It's said that there's a special campaign going on to delete these lists, and I'm told that 150 fell off the waiting list last year. However, in this private operating room, which cannot be divided and cannot be involved, 150 operations were carried out in the last year that people paid themselves. They cost 1,200 thousand pieces. The land hospital deserves the operation in 1,800 thousand, but it can be made inside the millenniums by 1,200 thousand. But we don't want to, Mr. President. We send people out of the country and have this done on private cocaine in Gothenburg, because we don't care if Sweden is making money for 2 to 3 million. The treasure leaks, as I say, in this respect. There's nothing in this budget, there's no evidence that humans want to put under this leak, not a thing created. So I'm going to take on one small business, because I say that the state fund leaks and surveillance is inadequate: this year, next year, and last year, several hundred million dollars were sent, reimbursed, paid to a religious organization or a biological society that doesn't even have an address; some 30 to 40 million a year for three years. The government's leaking. But no one is interested, apparently. As an example of the futility of this government, I have never seen in the bill that further tax returns are encouraged, i.e. can be used with the highest resources to collect when paying the required charges. I remember that, you know, the highest. In 2013, the president, when the national part of government then faced a change in hunting costs, and the left half of the council was not satisfied, or less than half of it. Now half of the measures taken in 2013 are facing. These measures were then called by that name, especially by reason of reason. To the officers of the left green who were then sitting in the assembly, the fund of state is to give up money. Of course, those were not incomes, for the charges were not yet paid. The wealth of money, however, is abdicating money by not adding extra force to the tax system. But it may be that the Central Party is in charge of each, and that includes it is in charge of the government in this matter. He proposes that the office of the head of the tax and taxpayer will be greatly strengthened by this budget of action directed against social security. This has been calculated, and shown in studies performed, including In a good master essay that I read the other day, we can conclude that the social security number in Iceland is the financial advantage of direct taxes ranging from 6 to 20 billion each year. (b) Why is it reasonable to believe that this added force in the tax industry is now being made up of some 6◯10 billion in financial funds? You see, as I told you earlier, the budgets of the party are filled with money. Mr. President. We business people in Iceland have found that social security is a problem. Questions were presented to the head of a student enterprise at the University of Reykjavík - this was actually in 2005, but there is no evidence that things have improved in any way. There it was found that the managers of over 73% of the enterprise involved in the study felt that they had been harmed by a social security report and that more than one third of the executives had been damaged by the social security number more than six times. The survey included 600 companies. What I mentioned earlier, 6 to 20 billion, is the proportion of land production that has appeared in an Australian survey. Every day we receive information on bankruptcy, different sizes, and size grey points indicate that the companies have not been working long. V.E.G. President. In this connection, I remind you that it has not been long since here, for the Central Party's bill, that the Law-change program was given to prevent or prevent social security. It suggested, and thought enough, that the person who has in the past 18 months led a business that goes bankrupt, three companies in 18 months -- that means, topv. President, former secretary of finance, has been allowed to live for six months or more than three years. That's not a big deal. However, those who have been affected - and now there are natural reasons for the failure of an enterprise - that companies in their business have gone bankrupt three times in 18 months, were punished for not being allowed to get close to corporate management for a good time afterwards. Similar regulations have, e.g. were in force in Sweden and found to be useful. Most of the suggestions presented in the Central Party are short of the serious proposals and the real arrangements we would like to take place in order for this to be accomplished. It is also suggested in our proposal that resources due to property savings, and to pay down mortgages, remain in force, but not fall down in the middle of 2019, as the government assumes. This law is one of the things that belonged to the correction of the debt at the time. Those who have been able to use this law agree that it is in accordance with the opinion that this law has made a big difference for those who have been able to use it to pay off debt and/or to collect themselves into down payment at the first apartment, or the first apartment after losing another apartment. Well, that's what it's like, honey. Mr. President, I'm still waiting for an answer to a question that matters about 16,000 people who lost their apartment at the time, because they were sold by the Subcommittee. Many people are pained by a binding that may, in the course of time, take advantage of this provision that works very well. The middle class goes back to suggest that the trades of senior citizens do not interfere with pensions. We also made that point before the year, and it was pronounced in a memorable way to a roll call here at the council. It is estimated that this provision will cost some 1,100 million bridges. That means if there's no additional on the number of seniors who prefer to work longer, this will remember the Rich Fund 700 million net, because about that. 400 million of this amount comes back in taxes. Besides this, it is a preventive operation in the health of those who are refreshed, trusted, and able to work, but whose income starts to decline immediately at 100,000 dollars. That's what it says. I'm still going to mention two groups that I believe could be useful just because they are real. First of all, there are experts in the state, and there is a bill from the Central Party that allows government employees to work until 73 if they choose, want, and can - these may be useful to them. On the one hand, some companies here in the capital area, in the construction industry, have employed older traders. I have previously described that it is natural for customers to do business with an industrialist who has 40 years of experience behind the purchases, etc. I can't believe that this group has the responsibility to go to the workforce to earn a hundred thousand dollars. before your income starts to decline. Mr. President. It's a waste of every sort. Central Party proposals suggest that the head of customs contracts 100 million as a result of an increase in drug abuse. Apparently not long ago, the Central Party conducted a special discussion here at the council on the consequences of increased opioid intake. Everyone in the hall seemed to agree that we needed to deal with this - we've buried one young person almost every week of the year until now, and that's just an intolerable disaster. We contribute 100 million to this program in an effort to meet the rivers, i.e. where the import is taken, whether at airports, on airline passengers, or in cargo shipments and post-mails. In all these areas, there has been a significant increase in the number and extent of research. So how important it is that we be able to cope! This amount, 100 million, is sufficient to buy and train two drug dogs, a man's advice to handle them, buy vehicles under them, and then a substantial amount of equipment. Regarding nursing homes, I witnessed new promises that have not been passed, but it has been found that the next year 140 new nurses will be taken in use, and in 2020 the 93 will be in accordance with the information we have acquired. That's very good. But there are two challenges. First, it's not enough growth, it's not big enough growth. Second, because most of the companies running this space work after very old contracts and very old remuneration forms, the service is being reduced in these households. That's all we can do. Therefore, we contribute 270 million to promote home - service and to the health of the elderly. It's money, which in itself is boring everywhere. It can also be mentioned, and also with the fine discussion that took place here on the opioid problem the other day, the Central Party suggests that the UY will receive, in addition to the increase in the share, 150 million, and the cancer society will receive 50 million. Now I repeat, here in the hall the other day, there was no need to take action to correct the crisis in these cases. Therefore, Mr. President, I believe that the proposals of the Central Party get a clear pass through the council when it is decided. I reiterate that all of these proposals for growth are financed. The 1,100 million for microchips are due to the continuation of productions at the house of Iceland and the use of banks to build for this payment. I say again, it's a matter of righteousness. Nor do I believe it until I accept that it is the sincere will of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter to have the poorest people in Iceland still wait for justice.
