ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u1	There have been two letters from the Environment and Resource Minister where they want to ask you to give written answers to the questions on the deck. 442, about the number of workers working on a law-employment projector, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason, and on a threshing floor. 505 of the annual reports from Óli Björn Kárason A letter has also been received from a health minister asking for every request to give a written application for this request. In the day of judgment, and in the time of judgment, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u2	A respectable president. We're now about the 3rd. total budgets of 2018. The committee held a meeting between discussions, and the discussion was a financial situation and a management point at health institutions in the country. That's the kind of thing to do. It's not only been passed on by a financial committee. In autumn and on this fall, the other health - care directors in the country are well aware of their status. In 2018, the budget was added to 400 million. Dec., as well as making changes in the amount of money needed to buy money. The 400 million were then permanently added, as they say, to the network of these institutions, as well as to 2nd. In the fall, a greater proportion of the legal committee made a proposal for a change in the budget bill because of its proposal to purchase the imaging equipment for health institutions in the country. Today, we were contacted by a representative of the Ministry of Health, and we also received information from the South National Institute of Health. We went through that discussion. Sadly, despite the changes made last year at the health base of the country, there are difficulties in their management. We were well informed about that and that position. It is a very serious matter, and we do not feel that this requires a complete approach and a much more difficult discussion than our being able to cope with the health problems of any individual health institutions on the 3rd. budgets. So, as I say, we need to deal with it with a much more complex and better prepared, deeper discussion than we have the opportunity to take now. Regarding the South American Institute of Health, more than 50 million of the 400 million who were added to their network last year and then in a lasting way this fall to meet what we can say is rapid population growth. Such critical factors have been dealt with specifically, and their financial resources remain in her business. A financial committee stresses that the work of a financial programme is now being carried out in the spring and the preparation of the next budget will be better considered and taken further into consideration by health institutions in the country, since we do not want to cause it in some way more trouble. Hence, after the actions we had taken, this situation was disappointing and thought that we had put their aspects of the health - care system better, but it now seems to be the case. A respectable president. We don't make a change of suggestions between discussions, but I'd like to say it just to the point. The budget continues to work with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry. Healthcare minister to identify the situation of these important institutions, which are all around the country and that by means of coordinated measures, we are able to improve their operations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u3	Mr. President. It is clear to all in this hall that health institutions throughout the country have problems with business. That's what we talked about when we covered and took care of the budget bill. In the United States, we produced a turnover of 800 million. K. who put this position to the proper use so that health care would be good for all people. The fine proposal rejected the government's decision. Why, then, are we discussing this now, where proposals have been turned down and political decisions have been made in the government section to maintain the health crisis before 2019 C.E.? Yeah, that's because we're on the last day before Christmas discussing a bill to the budget that's been inside the council for a week. Thus, Mr. President, the situation in the Southland, in the South, in fact, in both medical institutions there, is, as appropriate and can be reasoned very well with the 26th paragraph. the law on government finance, which deals with bill for budget money. It says, by permission of the President: If necessary, a secretary is allowed to look for additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to respond to temporary, unpredictable and inevitable expenses within the budget year.... If we specifically use Southnes'National Institute of Health, the number of inhabitants in the South has increased by 22% in the past three years. Some millions have entered 2017 and 2018 to meet that situation. It is obvious that if the Agency is to take a tilt as a result of population growth into 2019, it will have to stand below that level, as well as try to serve the population of Southnes, which are growing and increasing in this year if we look at it specifically. For 30th. the law on public financial matters, says: This year's budget will be reduced from next year's budget. Which means the Agency will go with us at least 60 billion. K. shelters that it needs to substantiate that have been approved for 2019 C.E. This just means even more trouble than it already is. I, as a Southern man, know from my own skin what the Agency's problem is. We know this very well of the Southnes. And it is known, according to official sources, that Southnes were registered by private clinics in the capital area. The government pays for that service, is just opening its pockets for that service, but cannot pay for public service in the Southnes region. What a sobering thought! I think it's best for the Southnes people and for the public health care that we strengthen them to serve the residents, but it's not a better place for Southnes who can take up the ministry in private clinics in the capital area. If we look at the paraphernalia, it's also unusual. It's not just that the increase is the largest in the whole country, it's that 25% of the population with a native language and the rate of disability is higher in Southnes than in other parts of the country, and young people with special problems are also in greater proportion than elsewhere. Indeed, there is reason to look to the Southnes in particular and to the service of the state of the Southnes, as the majority of the stocks agreed on a financial program in the year 2019◯23 C.E. should especially be considered in Southnesia. This situation wasn't getting up last night. They weren't aware of this position yesterday. When a financial plan was discussed, people were very conscious of their status and agreed as a political declaration to be viewed specifically by Southnes during the years of 2019-22023. However, this is not done. Rather, a political decision has been made to put less in the Southnes'medical facility than any other institutions in the country. During the past four years, health - care funds have been between 17% and 19%, except for the Southnes, where it has been 12.9%. However, the situation there is so special. Therefore, we should use the opportunity we have here to make sure that the Agency does not have a negative position into 2019 and say: "We didn't know when we approved the budget for 2018 that the population would continue to grow so much in Southnes. It was unpredictable, and that's why we're using the budget to fix that position. For the greater part, it is a political statement that should be viewed specifically. And now let it be in action by accepting the adjustment proposed by the person here and now. The senators of Sæland Gaand and Þórarinsson provide. We also want to examine the South Health Organization, which also deals with business problems. Everyone knows, and there's been many discussions in this room. Then there's been a particularly public view of the road system and the situation of the police. But health also needs to be watched as tourists pass through the country. 97% of all international tourists arriving in the country are crossing the South. There are large summer homes in the South. Iceland also travels extensively in the South. Sadly, accidents happen, and people get sick. We need to get to the emergency room at Selephoss. The increase in the number of visits to the emergency department or to the emergency department at Selefossi is not 10% in the past four years, not 20%, but 64%. Of course, that situation needs to be addressed. It is also in a very negative position, and it is very easy to accept the adjustment of the budget to say: There were more tourists, there were more accidents in the South than we anticipated. We need to respond, and that's why we're agreeing to the Management Board of Health for the South National Institutes so that the Agency does not have a negative foundation into 2019 and needs to cut down even more. This is a health care concern. This is about basic services with the South American people. And that's why I ask you loudly -- of course I'm not allowed to say it, that's why I say, Mr. President: Hv. Senators who understand this position, huh? Councilmen who agreed to enter a budget for 2019-2023 will have to vote with the second vote. Mr. President. I think it's true to say that I'm a great error - I'm trying to find the word I'm supposed to use - if governments make the political decision not to respond to the population and the increase that has taken place in recent years in Southnes and starve the medical institutions and force the people to come to them, those they can, service in the capital area. But what do they do there? That's where the box is opened, and money's paid off. But not everyone has this chance. It's just a smart difference. I hope I've convinced someone in this room to vote with the adjustment proposal. I'm in a lot of trouble. This comes from the bottom of my heart. I'm talking about key institutions in the district, the foundations. Who would like to extend the financial resources of health care in the well - being that has been described so freely for us in the various speeches, both in this hall and for the media, the Ministers have made comments about the good in the media. But we should not be allowed to enjoy it at least when it comes to health care. Mr. President. I've finished the case, and I trust I've had at least a drink. the six votes I need to get more part for this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u4	Mr. President. The adjustment recommended here underscores the urgent financial problems of the health institutions. Of course, it is heartwarming that we have not failed. This was considered in the special booking of the legal committee in connection with the financial policy of 2019◯23 that we needed to react, but this was not done. Changes were made, repeated, in the handling of budgets for 2019 that the greater part chose to kill, all of them. It's just so special to see the situation that at the same time as the largest population growth in that area, these are the least - to - be - concerned institutions. The improvement in health tests to the Southnesian Health Organization is more than 12% between 2014 and2018, while the average country-based increase in health care institutions in the country is in the range of 16◯19%; however, the population population growth in this region is less than three times the average population population in the whole country. I'm completely incomprehensible to why the administrative sector has chosen to throw this position and that trend completely out of its way. Of course, there is no surprise or unforeseen occurrence. There's been repeated warnings about this. A financial committee, the majority of them had warned about this themselves, but still, the majority prefer not to do anything about it. I'm sorry. The question can be asked whether this meets the budget required for an unforeseen amount of expenses that could not have been dealt with in some other way. Certainly, there were other ways to deal with this situation by agreeing, for example. the proposed changes to the memory of the part, both from the Union and from the restorations proposed to try to remedy this situation. But I think that it won't be much of a problem for the greater part to overlook, for that is true of most of the things in this budget anyway. The majority of the items must be able to come together in the face and lift up with the institutions involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u5	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, vice president of the budget board, was very careful about what has been done and how a well - informed financial committee is about the status of all the health institutions in the country. I'm not going to cross one or anything that's been shown in the language of those who speak for my part when it comes to statistics. There has been a legal committee who has been appointed by health - care directors to meet both in connection with budgeting 2018 and now 2019. The situation is difficult and hard to deal with. If we are a member of the Southnesian National Institute of Health, the financial committees of the local authorities were meeting with them, which gave rise to a good reason for the developments that have taken place there. That's exactly what's been said, both in the case of the day. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski, the village son of Víglundsson, and the matter of what. Harðardóttir Oddný to that, a combination of population and increasing numbers has been made more stressful to health institutions in many parts of the world. That's right. For the budget bill, I received a petition from the South National Institute of Health. But this is a problem that has been developing since 2014, and more of the budget committee decided that it was very small, not just high - speed messages, it would just be slim, if we did run 27 gr. legal on public financial matters, dealing with the problems of one particular institution. We have stressed the need for a collective action for these institutions, and it will be carried out by the instrument under review of a national budget, which is now within a few months at the spring Summit, which will address this problem of all health institutions in the country as a whole. Then I would like to reiterate that it takes special note of the development and the number of tourists in the countries that have been discussed here, the Southland Institute of Health, and the Southnes Center for Health. It is the instrument that the government law gives us in this regard. We cannot be that holy when the 2nd. of the budget bill was that some specific fees were hardly obligatory, temporary, or inevitable - thus planning to take out one particular subject and react to it. I stressed that we use the tools that the law contains before we take up any resources. It was a special goal to reduce the amount of funds that we do not respond to a problem with one particular subject, even though I highlight it at the end, a respectable president, that it is a common understanding of all things. This project is to be called in agreement with all institutions and the Supreme Court. Healthcare Minister, solve this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u6	A respectable president. I made that decision more than an hour ago. paritaprevir For example, a Oddný G.. A Harðardóttir daughter upstairs was allowed to be with her on this adjustment proposal. Why? Yeah, she's really unprecedented. We have never faced another such population growth in one part of the country before, and we now face it. At the same time, you may ask yourself, " Is it enough for us who have the means to make money or we who pass the goods to the people of the land to tell us about things, but at the same time admit that we are not going to react to them? ' It's sad to be a member of the nation if you know in your heart that there's a big problem and say at the same time: But look, we'll just take it later. For the second time today, I found a meeting with a body member and began to wonder if we were here to discriminate against the people. Are we segregating our subjects because we know that there is a problem all over the country? It's not as if it's not known. We're parking 400 million. K. Into the problem. It is tried to distribute the quality in this regard and to balance it with where the need is greatest. At the same time, though, we watch the unprecedented population growing in Southnes above 22% on just zero, as the youths say. It's completely unprecedented. Isn't it our business to give the money, it's not our share, and to convey the goods to our citizens, to show at least ours? to shoulder that responsibility? And if something without precedent comes up that is still unseen - it is still unforeseeable what growth will be, for there is nothing to be said about him, a respectable president. I'm proud to be a messenger with a bang. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter of this adjustment process right now. This is our last chance, this is money money money, and our last chance to actually react without putting our heads in the sand and saying, "Yes, we know it's a problem, but we're not gonna do anything, we're gonna wait until later, until after the reunion, until we get into financial plan for the next year. I encourage all to face this unprecedented situation, the great change that has taken place, and encourage us to shoulder responsibility. I encourage us to respect people's right to use health care in their hometowns. It should not be necessary to run between communities for medical attention. It's really the last kind of thing. I urge everyone to step forward now. If it's any legal thing to stand on your feet, I encourage all of us to do so, especially at the moment. A legal committee, I know, has done a decent job. There's nothing missing about it, and of course it's coming in completely on the last track, but it's not too late. We can dress it up for Christmas, because we're going on Christmas holiday. We can send this joy to the southernnes, who truly need it. I say again, Merry Christmas, my fellow Americans and my fellow generals. Let us put our hands on the matter and help us to make this possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u7	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For a very good speech earlier, a Harðardóttir of Edda G.. She described the problems of these South American health institutions, the health institutions, and the health institutions. In itself, I don't have anything to add. I want to know that the person present has made adjustments to meet this challenge, both to finance and to the budget of the last council, and all suggestions were made. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson earlier said that there must be a deeper discussion on the subject. I don't quite understand those words because the problem is so obvious that it doesn't have to take any deeper discussion about him. All we have to do is solve the problem, and we do so by increasing our financial resources to these clinics because they have been put on the line and in particular by the Southnes'clinic. There has been unprecedented population growth in the region, but at the same time, e.g. Southern Health Organization is relatively lower than any other government in the country. There is no need for a deeper discussion about this. It's just clear. We're in a hurry. The root of the problem needs to be addressed, and it is not enough simply to talk about the problem in a financial programme, that there is a problem, etc. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Yes, it is in the budget of 2020, but there is nothing to be done in 2019, so it is clear to me that it is as if there is some tool at the government's disposal to deal with this situation. It's simple. I'll remind you, for example. In fact, before the last election, the campaign library's campaign program, which published a full page ad on the Southnes, was to place 2 billion dollars. for building up of Southnes and, including, the Southnesian Institute of Health. At the same time, he cancels all changes proposals to add funds to the Southnes Institute for Health. We see that there is no will for a government party, an independent party, a forward party, and a left green, to solve this problem. It is naturally serious, Mr. President, not to realize what the situation is. I'll mention it here, e.g. in the Southnesja Medical Institute, waiting hours for phone calls, pay attention to: phone time for doctors for three weeks. Everyone sees it's a macabre situation. Southnes are starting to travel to Reykjavík to pick up health care and go to a clinic. It is time for a person to take up the big words and stop talking about the problem and start dealing with it. They say it's a matter of opinion whether the adjustment I'm making is in the interest of money. We talked about the fundraiser last night, and there's a lot of things that don't belong inside him. Then one would ask, "Did they see this coming? " Did They Visualize the Problem? If they say yes, he doesn't belong in the fundraiser. But I'm just saying, the government didn't see the problem coming because they haven't responded. It's just that way. I don't see this proposal fall out of money because it was unpredictable. It is a population growth that has no parallel, and it is our moral obligation to deal with such a problem when population growth is so great that it is so moral that we members of Congress. I have high hopes that people will see the need to respond. Words need to act, and talking about the problem is not enough. We owe it to people in these areas, both in the South and in the South, to deal with the problem. Regarding the South, the unprecedented increase in tourists has had a significant effect on that institution. There's a problem in the Western Islands. It is not a maternity service, so there are many areas in which we need to respond, not only to health care but also to the general hospital service in these two institutions. I encourage senators to accept this proposal. It's fair and natural, and I hope that people will show by their actions that they want to live by what they've said about these institutions, that they need to be met.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u8	A respectable president. I have talked a lot about the terms of the law on government finance, that for additional financial resources to be looked for in reserves or funds, expenses must be unpredictable, inevitable, temporary, and unable to respond in any other way. I can totally say that these are unpredictable expenses. The increase is greater than expected. A certain increase was expected, but it grew. It wasn't predictable. This change is predictable for the next year, so that evidence cannot be used in the next year, but the difference should have been made in terms of the increase the year before the next year. Whether that's good enough, I don't know. Of course, the resulting number of changes in population will be inevitable expenses, those who move to where they need medical attention. Then the big question is, Is this temporary spending? There I thought only on the other hand if the problem was that these were temporary contributions, not permanent financial contributions, and whether the problem itself was temporary or not. Clearly, the problem itself is not temporary. The population grew. There's nothing temporary about it. On the other hand, the law on public finances states that expenses that are temporary should be handled. Expenditures resulting from a higher population growth than expected are temporary contributions, temporary expenses due to this. This is not true next year because that foundation has become a reality. So on the condition that was assumed to be a 10% increase, but it became 20% -- give us two numbers -- it is a temporary change of 10 percent, the difference. On this basis, I think it is obvious that these are unpredictable expenses. Maybe the plan was bad. It may well be asked, though, if the plan was sufficiently accurate and well - thought - out, the result was this. As a result, it is inevitable because it is a public health service, as well as on the grounds that this change took place this year. This change would be temporary for this year, the contribution made in financial contributions. That doesn't apply next year. It would not be possible to correct what is missing next year if it has not been expected in budget 2019. Then it is no longer temporary or unpredictable or anything like that. On this basis, I believe that it can be reasoned. I didn't think so. At first, my first reaction was that these were not temporary expenses, but people examined the matter and wondered if they were temporarily a problem or not, temporary spending or not, and on what grounds they could establish their own position, what would be meant by the civil law? I believe that under the strict conditions set out in the government laws this inevitable conclusion is that only the difference between the population growth between what was expected and the real economy and this year alone is within the law on public finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u9	A respectable president. It is clear to everyone that the number of tourists in Southnes and South countries has not been sufficiently unsuccessful when it comes to financing at the two clinics there. How comforting it was to hear both reason! The chairman of the budget board and the deputy legal committee inform them earlier at the discussion that this will be taken up. I'm sure I'm not going to be able to handle this with them at a financial committee when it comes to it. Of course, I'll keep the committee opinion that I've signed for the change in the budget, knowing why. A representative of the proposal here is indeed a 3rd - year - old. not the right setting to address the problems she was dealing with. Therefore, I will say no to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u10	Mr. President. It is strange if a discussion with the 3rd. about a bill that's been here only for a week. In fact, the one here stated that the administrative body would address this great crisis in the Southnesian Institute of Health and in the Southland Health Organization. The Agency needs to be faced with an unpredictable problem because of the increased population and the number of tourists that all agree on. It's just not enough, Mr. President, to stand here in a chair and say: "We understand and know that the problem is terrible and terrible and that it's difficult for the Southnesians - and then don't do anything, so don't put a dime in solving the problem. It is a disgrace, Mr. President, and it sucks to know that the political decision of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is to starve health institutions in the South Sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u11	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss the proposal for an additional budget for two health institutions, Southnesia and Southland. I reiterate my speech, that action has been taken, that we can see if we look at the evolution of the previous dating. If it has not been enough, it needs to be addressed. But I'm not going to blame some shame that we have to deal with problems in many parts of society. Inflation bill is not the scene to respond to the requests of one or two strains when the problem is all over the country. It's just that it would be an endless message. Here's what we can do. Councilmen of the antiquities stand holy and proclaim that there is far too much scope in the budget bill and come to the last record to provide for one or two agencies. It's just not the right message, chief. President. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u12	A respectable president. Just like I traced history at the beginning of the 3rd. ... aboutthe fiscal bill that we're voting on and paying votes for the change I don't support, I strongly attributed that we've taken action to improve the health bases of the country. Based on information available on the budget today, about half a billion are taking a turnaround on all health institutions in the country. After our recent actions, we are very disappointed, and we do not respond to this intervention in the suggested way today. I'm not going to demean the argument. There will be books that I understand that argument, and I will not belittle them, but we will do the job of putting our hands on this project better. This has taken place in the past. There's gonna be some serious planning, and we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u13	A respectable president. I want to reiterate what I said in the budget, the problems of the regional hospitals are in common. We need to solve the whole thing. I think it's very important that it be done, like the other. The chairman of the budget committee came in. It is also clear that in the South, men will not live on promises, they will live on wealth. It is very important that the promises made here be fulfilled. And the understanding is important that came up with a budget board for lunch from the Ministry and the Committee. They're realizing how serious the problem is with Southnes. I believe it. I trust it will be solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to inform you in this discussion that over the past few weeks, there has been a good cooperation and conversation about the state of the medical facility in many parts of the country. Then I especially want the emergency departments at the Kraga Hospitals, the Southnes, the Southland, and the West, and the unprecedented population growth, the composition of the population, and the groups in those places. I'm telling you, after these conversations and partnerships, there's a lot of understanding in the plot. The Ministry of Justice was at a meeting of the welfare committee last night on these matters and on the highest level. A health minister has assured us that the work has begun to take on this and shape future solutions in these matters. I trust that job, and I want to give it what. The budget room to handle this at the highest level. Secretary of health. [[The president calls.]] That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u15	Mr. President. Here, people say, and have paid for the vote that they're not going to use this window to straighten out the situation that was unpredictable, both in Southnes and in Southland, but at the same time say they're going to work a lot of money on a budget and with the executive authority to fix the situation. Here in this hall, we make decisions about funding in financial and financial resources, not in some conversation with the health minister or financial minister. So the administrative body says: "We're not going to handle this problem in 2019, but maybe we'll do it in 2020. This depends on the way the talk is done and on the position of the committee. That's not a good practice. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u16	A respectable president. I'm really worried that this bill is going to cause a failure among writers. Many of them have a contract with their editions that pays a total price, and if the overall price goes down, they are certainly less equipped. If something had been done to meet writers in some way, such as putting more months in artist's salary or even raising them, it would be another sound in me now, but at the moment, I just don't think it's good enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u17	A respectable president. It is clear that the matter of a pivotal procedure is involved. The incorporation into this sector is about 17% of the roll, so it's a lot of farming. We're doing this for the sake of Icelandic. We're doing this to strengthen a book version in the country, and I'm sure we're turning defensively into an offense. This is the first action of many we are doing in order to strengthen the books and literature in our country. I'm glad to see that there's much convergence in the council and that everyone's looking at how we're going to walk into that colporteur together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u18	Mr. President. I'm a member of the National Ritual Association of Iceland. paritaprevir I'm actually a member of another Snæbjörn, a Brynjarsson's team. That is not a unity among writers. She's some kind of experiment, and we'll see how she's going. However, this is an experiment that is being carried out regardless of its view and cannot be said to have been better. It can be evaluated afterwards; the result can be changed. I think this is a good step, so I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u19	President. I agree that the English language needs to be nurtured, read, and read, especially among young people. In this context, it is important to increase production, increase reading, and improve access to books. I am not convinced that the best way to reach that goal is to spend 400 million directly to publication, much rather to use competitive funds to produce good works, vastly advanced libraries, and the availability of young people to books in study and play. That's the best way. This is not the best way. But I don't want to stand in the way of this matter. I hope it works well, but I'm not convinced. I'll be on the yellow button in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-14-52.u20	A respectable president. This bill is a cause of great joy. It is good that we are taking steps to strengthen a publication in Iceland, thus supporting increased reading. I encourage people who want to do what I listed here and support the publication, people who want the best of the book, not to vote against a book version support. Although the person might think that there was a better way, I say for my part that it's wrong to vote against the case. I am proud that I can contribute to supporting the publication. Like what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in, and then we review how this has worked out and if something needs to be checked, but a book version is at the point where everything is better than nothing.
