ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u1	Borist has two letters from the secretary of state asking for every request in order to give written answers to the application form. 235, a telematics telecommunications project on satellite, Smári Mccarthyr, and on deck. 237, for import of raw and unbound foods from Bjarni Jónsson. A letter from the Minister of Justice has also been received where the request is made in order to give a written answer to a petition. 247, to collect tickets for traffic violations, from Birgir's Þórarinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u2	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u3	Mr. President. It is clear to everyone that those who were working on the stability conditions of the government during the reign of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, had access to confidential information that is relevant to the interests of the Icelandic state. We've got an ex- assistant at the highest. The minister of finance came to a very important job in his day, which would even be appropriate. building stability conditions, contract targets, and other tool options to demand and decommission. It is a scandal, therefore, that this same helper is now working for the Council of Copenhagen and the largest owners of Arion's banks. The conditions for stability were tailored to. What is more, the assistant began work for that person only weeks after he left the job as an assistant at the highest level. Minister. Mr. President. There are few of us here on land. But are we really so few that this situation has been inevitable? I'd like to ask the highest. Financial and economic minister whether he feels normal that his former assistant can work with sensitive confidential information for the government but shortly thereafter start working for those who obviously have great interest in managing the same information. Made the highest. There is no requirement for the assistant who served as his agent to work for the same demands that he was dealing with for the highest level. Minister? Tells you the highest. Does it not obvious that an employee who has such information is an extremely valuable employee for the Council of Copenhagen? What did he do? A minister to prevent possible conflicting interests from taking place?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u4	A respectable president. We've been through this before, me and what. Senator, exactly this case. I think I went over what really mattered when we had a word exchange at the time. It is a question of mismanagement of confidential information entrusted to humans. I just have to pray. A member of the council to offer some evidence of his case, if that is the case. What was the job of a qualified employee is official information today. There is nothing that led to his work or to those who participated in that work, and there were numerous members -- it's all tied up to contracts that included. were assigned to the Economic and Business Committee this week. But about what? A senator is in the middle of something I don't realize, she has to be more aware of it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u5	Mr. President. The one here is not lying about anything. I was asking the highest. Minister of Questions he didn't answer. But these things are important. Supreme Court position. Secretary of the budget is very important. If he feels nothing unusual about this position that most people feel is a real concern. The decision to take Orion's bank a different way from the Bank of Iceland was made to claim independence, said one former colleague of the highest rank. Minister of the government, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. When it comes to the financial system and the survival of independent men, the track is full of terror. The whole process must be transparent and open. But it's not. The path of Arion banks is unclear. Not all agreements with the State have been made public. We don't know who owns the hedge fund. Is it not time for us to stop doing so rashly and to acknowledge that they are working against the interests of the common people? The highest. At least a financial and economic minister doesn't agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u6	A respectable president. These are all empty words that fall out of a speech chair here. Puss and amateurs. There's no coat and there's no amateur. Hv. A member of the government who made the prenup of the prenup, she just doesn't recognize it. She was a member of the government who made the deal rights that are now being activated but comes up here and talks about pugs and amateurs. Don't even know your own work. Who's doing something? Who's doing it? Nobody. When you look at the stability conditions, the stability contracts, you can't help saying: Bravo, it worked out 100%. The crown was not pressured. The project was designed to reduce the level of currency that was at risk of forming in the development of old broilers. It worked 100%. And today, the stability spending of some 380 billion dollars at the right time is estimated at some 74 billion more than what was then. [[The president calls.]] If the invitation to the end goes well, then a foreign agreement with the State will be put to the test. So the state could have a memory of another 20 billion in payment from these sources if the message that lies ahead is successful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u7	Mr. President. The government's stock in Arion Bank is a complex that is thought - out by the most skilled experts. The beginning is an approved stockholder for the buy of his own letters to Arion. Then shareholders announce that they want to activate the 2009 stock agreement and buy the share of the State on price. The approved shareholders'meeting of the purchase of their own letters allowed the hedge fund to use the bank's money to buy the letters. So they do not have to make a deposit. This is brilliant number one. Once the state is bought out, the hedge funds can do what they want with the bank's belongings. Their share grows and becomes more valuable. This is brilliant number two. Then they start cutting down the bank, selling valuable daughterhoods out of the bank, like Valitor, and headed for a fund management. It's the most valuable granddaughter in the bank. Today's business paper said that the bank's property is very valuable. When this is docked, the skeletons that the pension fund buys are left behind. This is brilliant number three. All is three. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget is a federal guardian for the Generals. Can't you see the party? I'll say the highest. Minister what to do. He makes the bank government a meeting of stockholders right away where one subject will be on schedule, i.e. to cancel the bank's authorization to buy their own letters, to investigate whether this is a law, to investigate relevant managers, and to investigate how the financial system is affected by taking so much of its own money out of the bank. I am confident that the hedge fund will reverse the government's rights when they see that they have to pay for it from their own pocket, not with the bank's money. So I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: Will you immediately go to the office of stockholders, have the bank's release canceled, and have your own mail investigated?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u8	A respectable president. In fact, on behalf of the State, a vote was given against the stockholders' meeting that the bank be authorized to buy their own letters. So it is with growth that the state has only handled a 13% share of property, and in the opinion of the Bankisa, it is an uncommunicated mono-sided purchase of the share of the State. I notice why. A senator says that going along in the business is something to be held in. I would like to ask him to look into it a little better how he in general evaluates the value of financial companies because he seems to have some further analysis of the value of the bank. Ain't the situation coming up before what's happening. A senator and his party: The Declarations of the Central Party for elections were absolutely meaningless? Ideas that it would be possible to give one third of Arion's bank to the Icelandic public, a bank that had nothing to do with the state, and would have to pay 60 to get that thing, were empty paper, no place for it. It doesn't mean to get up here in a Senate hall today, half a year after election, and start blowing up mud on things that have been placed in contracts for years and are part of successful government operations to cover the huge failures of the middle party's campaign policy, which is now beginning to dawn on humans that there was no room for. Or what are many billions of them? A senator is willing to lean forward to buy an object in a financial enterprise so that the campaign supply of the Central Party can be used to pump out 70 billion and cash out into the state's budget? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u9	Mr. President. Today, the value of the bank's granddaughter is expressed in the business magazine. Because they see an opportunity to get the state out of the bank and thus have the ability to use the bank's property to make money. Now this plot is in place, like I traced. We then discovered the fact that the bank's foreign shareholders'aim is to use their own money to buy the share of the State on the watch just to increase the property of other shareholders of foreign hedges. In other words, they buy the thing without having to pick up the wallets, as I said before, and make money because it's so cheap. Everyone sees that it's cheap because it's so valuable. It's simple. Can a minister, as he may have revealed, inform us that we have a cause of denial? The target of denial is at the stock conference, and it is good if so. But has a minister requested information on the position of the SEC on this behaviour of other owners of Arion banks? [[The president calls.]] Can these be considered good government practices in a financial company? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u10	A respectable president. The banking board has reviewed the economic and business committee how these events occurred in connection with the activation of the premium and the position of the shareholder, the state, has been at the stockholder's conference on these materials. Hv. A senator has come to have the answer to how he values the bank. He'll read the Morning newspaper. He has already learned that the bank is worth far more than those 0.8. Then I have some good news for what? A senator. We made a business deal with the bank's owners, Volunteer. It works so that if the bank sells from 100 to 140 billion, it becomes one third flows directly to the State. If it sells in the range of 140,160 billion, the purchase price will be half as much between the owner and the State. If the bank sells, like a dog. A senator seems to believe, even in over 160 billion people, i.e. The lot of the council, the kingdom shall receive three fourths of the price of the purchase, on the basis of a deal of change. [[The president calls.]] So if all of this works out for a global discharge, which should be an excellent way to find the true value of the bank, it will go to the state in a very large way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u11	President. Again we hear of the sexual abuse of children, and our hands fall apart. Clearly, if these transgressions can be prevented, we are certainly obliged to use all the provisions that have shown some effectiveness in that direction. I'm asking you, are we? In 2012, the Lanzarore Treaty, the European Parliament on Children's Protection Against Sexual Abuse, and Sexual Sexual Abuse, adopted the Treaty. It requires that those with child care have access to help, e.g. as a treatment to help reduce the chance of the individual to give in to his/her feelings. In April 2013 a report of a meeting group on government coordination was published in order to ensure efficient management of sexual abuses, especially children. It was one suggestion that open - up measures would be made in which individuals who fear that they may commit sexual immorality or that they may have been taught by children could be treated that was based on a risk assessment with the aim of preventing a violation. Yet, the situation is that in this country adults with little or no child support and who have to pay for their own treatments are greatly reduced by the possibility of making use of necessary resources. In Britain, Ireland, and the U.S.A., relief phones are advertised for those who need help to stop. In this country, the UN continued Blue, and the Red Cross tried to offer similar resources, but it's on the beach. Preservation of this class can save lives. Both adults and children need to be instructed on child care and how to help both victims and bacteria. Such education encourages a person to take the necessary steps to protect children before they are exposed to violence. This is absolutely necessary work, and I find it surprising that an organization and individuals in this area need to be in the eternal struggle to finance themselves. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why is the coast so important to our children's protection of funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u12	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for taking up this matter and accepting her concern for the news that we see all too often and that we have to produce lately. In terms of how we are involved in a group and other activities related to this, it has usually been done through a special group. I'd like to say, though, that I give this party a lot of emphasis and from the fact that I took over as a minister most of the association that is numerous, such as rough. A senator mentioned, to discuss in what ways we may respond earlier in the prevention and management of children. After these reports, I have also met with the officials coming in on these matters, both Child Welfare Services, Children's Health Services, Police, and other agencies, to discuss what measures we can take. Hv. A senator named the Lanzarotte Committee. I have even. discussed this matter with Bragi Guðbrandsson, director of the Children's Institute of Child Welfare, who has been in the management of the Lanzarore Commission since 2012 and was its chairman, in what way we Icelanders can take more decisive action than we have ever done in this series. I hope to bring some suggestions from that job and continue working with these agents. Then, in particular, I mention the director of the Children's Institute of Child Welfare because he has a lot of knowledge about this class and what is going on in our neighboring countries. Then I hope to offer suggestions at the council to improve the position of these groups, not just the children, but the bacteria as well. I hope that in the next year's national budget budget, funding will be specifically earmarked in the category of children, early resorts to them and sexual violence, which, unfortunately, bring too many news reports, which are merely tragic and repugnant. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u13	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. They hope that there will be some action in this series of subjects. Prevention is one of the most important ways we can tackle problems in society, preventing them from developing. As I see it more and more, there's never enough money at this level exactly, on prevention at the first level that's so important. I see the whole mental health thing, now they're shutting down the GET team there, and I see that there's no funding here. I'm asking the highest. Whether he intends to pursue some kind of long - term plan for child abuse prevention and whether he intends to finance a free organization that is doing an enormously important job and has extraordinary experience in this category, or whether this is all about doing this at the Children's Institutes or in public institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u14	A respectable president. Prevention. You're absolutely right. A senator is by far the best way to prevent this. As I said earlier, there is a good job being done by members of society and public groups as well. But I don't think the public welfare system is doing well in all things, and it's time to strengthen and strengthen the work regarding sexual violence and other factors. I think that's part of the reason that a free organization is now entering social services in general. And not just about sexual violence. Our welfare systems do not speak together, our communities, our social services, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education. I plan to start a policy career, and I'm preparing a job that aims to link different lawsuits in this regard so that the systems begin to communicate. At the same time, I'd like to see how we can connect a free organization into it. I can't tell you enough, I think it's very important and it's one of the issues where it's extremely important to link everyone together, whether it's a government or a government situation, it's not a political matter. I welcome this inquiry very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to direct an inquiry to the social and equality minister for a dollar against a dollar. Such a impairment is still on the table of disability. What does such a impairment mean? Yes, it means that if you're right with your left hand, your right hand will come and rip them all off. That means if you get any small income, they're taken away. Who's going to get the worst of this about micro-germs? Yes, women. It's amazing that it's that way today. I don't know if this is the vision of those who put these laws and don't do anything about changing them, that they can see that holding them blind to food support. It's going down. They're helping blind people get food, relief agencies. They're helping badly disabled people to get food. What happens then? Yes, medication costs are rising, doctor's service. Is that the answer? Raise everything and don't return anything? If this was the point of the law, I'd like to ask the highest. Social Minister: What is he going to do about it? Every group in the government has promised to accept a dollar out. Why on earth have they not? If they need help with that, I'm sure that in this council hall, everyone will support it, based on what was said in the campaign. This is not supposed to be a problem. That's why I want to know what the policy is, when to do this and if we can do this right away. I'm sure we'll help the highest. Minister to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u16	A respectable president. Improved the worst, especially the disability-efficient pensioners. A senator entered, is an important subject. The government has its policy to reevaluate the terms of these groups together with the review of the social security system and with the implementation of a new work programme in this field and a rehabilitation system. I've put much emphasis on it and found it very regularly in Iceland's Micro-Development Association, Developmental aid, and other sources involved in this. So I'm glad that I think that people are getting together on the largest lines of how this work ability assessment and the new rehabilitation system can work, or the flow algorithm in it. It was introduced in the government last week. As a result, they are expected to appoint a special group of working men who will not become all too many members, and they are expected to work until spring and go over. the factors involved in the performance status and must be linked into different categories of issues and, on the other hand, a review of the social security system to this group. It will, of course, be in there. discuss a dollar a year and a half. The time frame in this, which will be considered each week, which points we need to consider, the government on the other hand, and the stakeholders in these groups. I'm expecting this week to introduce a petition to the task force where two representatives of the United Kingdom and one representative of the government opposition are expected to enter there along with the workers of the labour market, Iceland's Microcollar Association and the Developmental Fund. In connection with this work, I hope that there may be times when both of us can both... [[The president calls.]] I have to move on here in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u17	A respectable president. I appreciate the social and equal minister for these answers. There's nothing to do with a dollar worth of work. These are very different things, connected in no way. Let's go to the valedictorian, it's great. But let's take a cent out of it right now. Let's finish her. It's everyone's will. There are 41 companies in Iceland's Institute of Environment, and not one society has ever connected a dollar to a dollar in return for the loss of performance assessment. It was done for the last government, and it seems foreign to this government to link it together. But there's no connection. If the Minister says there's some connection between us, I'd like him to explain it to me. Because a dollar against a dollar is about getting ahold of it. A crown against a dollar is a violation of human rights. Money is being taken from those who should be least taken. People who don't have food, they don't have medicine. [[The president calls.]] What kind of violence is that? I'm just saying, explain what the connection between a dollar and a dollar across a dollar's cut and assessment is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u18	A respectable president. What I was going to do in my answer was that the government is now starting work and conversation with stakeholders, the Quantum Community, Developmental Support, how we re-evaluate the social security system and take into account the ... againsta crownofcreducation. In the schedule we set for the completion of May month this year, we will discuss how we handle the damage to the social security system, how we reorganise the social security system, as well as what we are doing with an assessment of performance. It is true that this is not related, but it is linked because with a modified system and a working-creature system, the plan is to discuss how to improve the ideals of these groups. We've got a schedule for that. [[The president calls.]] I hope that this work is now completed in the spring Summit so that the next fall can be put in place a bill on a new social security system for this group. [[The president calls.]] If we are to succeed, we all have to stick together, and I rejoice at the solidarity. This is where a senator shows.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Social and equal minister, with emphasis on the latter, on the issues of queer people. Although we boast of much tolerance here on the land and the well - being of queer people in the community in general, our legislation has by no means followed society. In fact, we are far behind our neighbors in this regard. If, on the other hand, we look at our position when it comes to gender equality, where we are at the top position, and then our position when it comes to the rights of queer people, where we are at best in the middle of a ward or below the center of a department in Europe, it is quite clear that here is a significant improvement. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Justice minister, in which the affairs of this group have been at the level of the Ministry that has been, if I recall correctly, under the command of the highest rank. Ministers of the past quarter: Is there any relief here on top of the highest level? Minister? How does he intend to improve the state of queer people when it comes to the legal environment? How does he intend to raise Iceland's position in international comparison when it comes to this group's position? In particular, I refer to the '78 Association as a very important consultant to its clients, but they have very little official support to it. In fact, when we are going to compare ourselves with our neighboring countries, there are at least millions of dollars lacking on public donations so that we can get the toes where our neighbors have heels. There I made a will declaration to the organization during my last term. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does he consider them a declaration of will?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u20	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry, saying: Yes, the government takes seriously the information that is being received about the state of gay people in Iceland and the fact that Iceland seems to be falling behind when it comes to these matters, even if we say on holiday and believe we're not. A senator asks what's going on, what the minister and the government are doing. They're scheduled for the council, including the Council. two laws on discrimination, both social discrimination and employment discrimination. I hope they'll be able to enter the council next week, if everything works out. And it's also nice to say that I was coming from a meeting at the Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities, including they discussed this precisely and in what way we were going to strengthen the position of Iceland and these groups. That's even. in the implementation of the sexual autonomy bill, which is cooperated with the Minister of Social Affairs and Health Ministers and in good cooperation with stakeholders. It is not likely that the bill could arrive at the next assembly. Then, too, it is in an effort to promote the '78 organizations and that the government will develop a stronger cooperation with them when it comes to these seminaries. I'm expecting to discuss it with the '78 Controversies shortly, how we can arrange that cooperation. I agree with what. A senator, it is of utmost importance that we are on the front row, not just in word but also on table. We do so sometimes in word, but we obviously do so, so we are not at all at all. That is where we need to improve. The government is sure to do so by means of decisive action.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u21	Thank you. Minister very well clear answers, unusually clear answers. I strongly encourage him in these matters. It is a pleasure to hear that the discrimination bills are on their way into the council. I know that they have developed a different interest in one of the top colleagues. Minister, but I can assure him that he will certainly enjoy the support of the government's opposition to these matters. I also strongly encourage him in support and agreement with the '78 organization. The way we support these activities is a disgrace. It is of utmost importance. The counseling work there is very important, especially when we see that as a nation, we have put special emphasis on the approach of queer refugees, which adds to the pressures of this counsel. As governments, we need ambition and a financial support of the organization so that they can fulfill their role. Therefore, I encourage the ministers to act on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u22	A respectable president. I want to thank you. For and say that there is no other way for the government than to make the paces in these matters so that Iceland is on the pair of the best in these things known, and this is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Equal Opportunities and justice and is also one of the priorities of the Special Ministers on Equal Opportunities established by the Prime Minister and has been discussed in the Ministeri's Committee on Equal Opportunities more than once. As a result, there is evidence that it is the will not only to work in the Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Ministry but to link a different group of people in this. It's exactly that these matters are not just being done in the social and social equality laws, they're linked to other areas, as I said before, to the Ministry of Health and to other people. The plan for the government is to make a mess of this. I appreciate the encouragement and support that may be given to any issues that arise before the council, whether these two are at the same time. A senator mentioned or others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u23	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to fix electrical fags and battery refills. The bill is primarily part of the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and of the Council 2014/40/EU on the coordination of legislation and Member State legislation on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and decontamination of Directive 2001/7/EC. I want to know at the outset that the bill, or the content, of the one that is now submitted for the second time, but the bill of the same material was submitted to a 146th legislature and went to the welfare committee after Cycle 1. I didn't get my money. The bill is suggested on the one hand to establish a whole set of rules on access to import, sale and marketing of electric teats and battery refills, as well as the rules for monitoring them. However, there is a mandate on authority for the use of electric cigarettes. The bill means that, for the first time, it will be granted to the general information for the import, distribution and sale of electrical products and refills for them in this country, whether they contain nicotine or not. It is important, more dignified, that people come to realize this, because according to current pharmaceutical law, fluid containing nicotine is considered a fluid product that contains nicotine and it is actually forbidden to sell electric cigarettes with fills containing nicotine unless there is a marketing authorisation from the Marketing Authorisation of the European Medicines Agency. At times, the discussion of electrical cigarettes in this country has been understood to mean that the rules of legislators are primarily designed to put a stone in the streets of those who want to quit traditional tobacco smokes and use electric smokes to do so. Far from it. The legislation presented here, with a bill on the subject, creates an environment that will for the first time contribute to the legal import of this product. It is accompanied by improved consumer protection, where people can rather than previously trust the meaning and content of the information. More important, this product will be used for sale and marketing in children. In short, it is suggested that there are comparable rules about the use of electric cigarettes and the use of smokers. The same is true for the marketing and age groups. Unable to sell electric cigarettes and refills to children under 18 years of age. Similarly, those selling that goods need to be subject to 18 - year - olds. The bill shows that there are indications and markets that should not be especially appealing to children and young people. The safety of generators is suggested to minimise the risk of accidents when used and to ensure that electric cigarettes and refills are babyproof. The maximum concentration, size of refills, fill materials and the maximum capacity of the single-use generators and capsules are submitted by the same restrictions on strength and size as shown in the above European directive. Power cigarettes or refills must be sold in schools and other places intended for the social, sports, and leisure activities of children and young people and at clinics and other health care centres. The ads and the demonstrations of electronics and refills at markets apply the same rules as tobacco in the bill, i.e. not to advertise electric cigarettes and refills, or to have visible markets, except special stores where products must be visible at the time of store entry. In III. the chapter of the bill discusses limits to the use of generators. They must be used in the services of institutions, businesses and partnerships, schools, schools, schools and other educational institutions, as well as in other houses designed for daycare and social, sports and activities of children and young people, in clinics and other health services, public transportation and prisons, except for the exceptions listed on the bill. IV. section of the bill is suggested to monitor the consumers room through electronic equipment and refills in accordance with the regulations of the laws and regulations set out in accordance with them. It is then suggested that the manufacturers and importers of electronic networks and refills they intend to post are instructed to report this to the International Office six months before the marketing is scheduled and the secretary is authorized to set up a Regulation on reporting to the National Institutes. An consumer agency is also authorized to charge a fee for receiving notifications and is made to published on its website information about the parties who have met the criteria of the announcement. Then the consumer agency is allowed to demand that producers, immigrants, or electricians and refills provide information on the specific portions of the product and its contents, as well as providing samples of products in the quantity needed to evaluate its properties and effects. It is also obliged to take immediate action on producers, importers and distributors if there is any reason to expect that electric cigarettes and refills in their possession will not be safe or otherwise in accordance with law. The producers and importers of electric websites and refills are also required to inform the surgeon's office and the consumer clinic every year about the sales and consumption practices of electric websites and refills in accordance with the Minister's Regulation. Then, in consultation with the Ministry of Health, the surgeon's office arranges for regular education on the health effects of electronic networks and the risks of handling generators and refills. Finally, the bill suggests that there will be changes in the media law, No. 38/2011, to monitor the advertisement for what is suggested in the bill will be in the hands of the media committee. A respectable president. I have now seen the core of the bill, but the bill presented here means that comparable rules will apply to the use of electronics as well as the use of smokers and on markets and ages. During the past year, the use of electric cigarettes has increased rapidly in this country, and this has to be done as there is no threat to the defense. The bill has access to adults who want to use electric cigarettes to cut or reduce tobacco consumption. The access is a loyal, respectable president. At the same time, young people are less likely to become addicted to nicotine, so they are trying to match the performance of their defenses by means of adverts, also bans on displays in stores and other activities designed to prevent new users from becoming electric addicts. A respectable president. I expect to have a good discussion on this matter here at the council Hall and to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and to the 2nd. I highlight the current objective of the case that, according to European law, we are in the position to have to set this law. In agreement with the council, I expect this law to be in the most successful way in human health, as well as for the consumers who choose this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for the contributions of this bill. There's a lot of news when things come from the government. As soon as I agree that such things need to be passed - and it's good to set rules and laws on things so new in our society - I think it might be sobering to think about what this is like a tobacco law. It may not be strange because it is somehow replaced by something similar, and it is taken in a similar way. But because of this, the Minister says that it is important that we set good laws on this matter primarily for the public health of the Icelanders, I would like to say that the legislation on this object should be considerably more free than on tobacco, because this may be the greatest progress in the public health of the world for many decades. There are many indications that this may be an amazing record of good health for the whole world, i.e. to direct people to electric fags. That's why I ask: Is it not an option to approach this also in this way to direct people directly to electric cigarettes, making it easier to do this rather than just like smoking cigarettes?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. There's a senator, and he's also happy that I'm here to represent him. It is a well - known mess of government opposition at any given time because something comes from the government. That is also the rule of being more opposed to what comes from it when it comes. That's another story. Whatever it is. A senator here brings up an important point. When we looked at how we did it when we set tobacco laws in our day, we actually enjoyed the benefit of tobacco. We were very tired to the conclusion that it was indeed dangerous. In this legislation, we approach it on the other side, so to speak. This is in harmony with what the World Health Organization says. It points out that there is no harm or damage to this product. Therefore, the World Health Organization proposes to the states that legislation on these consumers is to limit access to electronic use in the same way as for smoking until the possible destruction of the product has been demonstrated. First and foremost, there is the view that normal Pharisees do not use it or make it normal or important, or something like that, both adults and children, as a first step, but also maintain the importance of this way for those who intend to smoke tobacco on the shelf. So it is under the guidance of the World Health Organization selected for this approach. I trust the council will deal with such issues as others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u26	Mr. President. It's right next to the highest. The minister to the mess was not invented by present government opposition. I even remember that the senator who stands here may have learned it from the highest degree. Minister of last election period. But I'm not going through all this, and I'm not going through this at all. I agree that there are rules to be made. Surely, the extent of damage or loss of this product cannot be demonstrated literally. I don't think there's any doubt, though, that it's much better, and it's far less harmful than the one we've been taking up so far. Therefore, there is strong evidence to make it more accessible to the others. I don't object to trying to see if young people start using electric cigarettes or forbid special appeals. You could do more than that. I took e.g. it was very cool when a minister gave his nose to a former minister. So why don't we walk all the way and examine them as well? But it may be a pair with salmon or golf, so that is because it is more comfortable. However, I believe that we are involved in the council making it a real option for those who want to take advantage of only a better life - style, despite all things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u27	A respectable president. There is now much to do in special contact, either from the II Parliament's symposium or even in the side rooms, discussing how you learn to be a good student here at the council and from who and at what time. It is, of course, as usual when we are faced with the implementation of European rules, that part of that equipment is designed to protect us from it, whether for good or for no good. I, however, feel that way, like a dog. A senator, who is involved in a law that is beneficial, perhaps primarily because it introduces certain consumer protection. Here we are talking about security standards, CE markings, etc, which should be a cause for joy for consumers. Then we will know those who consume the generators and want to go that way, and we will be able to trust what is for their health. However, it is also so, to be said, as usual when creating European legislation, that here are factors to be decided in a specific way in this bill, to form the monitoring factor, where it should be. We do not have clear guidance on where to find him. Our conclusion is that it is a consumer room that cares for him because it is a commercial consumer product. This may be another way, but we did not think it was the best outcome in this product. Other countries have different ways of doing this. This is one of the things the council needs to discuss. Other factors, e.g. where to consume the product and where to not. There, each country has a considerable self - worth. We set up relatively rigid boundaries in this regard. But it is also the Senate's decision on how it will be done in the best way it should be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u28	A respectable president. The main questions I would like to ask are the size of the capsules and the size of the European legislation on the size of both the capsules for sale and the capsules that are in the battery itself, the two millilitres they allow. It sounds to some extent like we're setting up laws that cars could only have a specific large tank of fuel, etc. I'd like to know what our space is there, because there is often room in European legislation in this regard. In the first century C.E. See, with regard to safety, I prefer that the size of the capsules can be security features, such small capsules are safety problems. They are small enough even to be swallowed. So it is also a safety element not to have too small a capsule that is harder to put child-lock on, etc. I wondered if there's a certain gap between the two that disturbs. If the objective of this law is not to be put in the streets of consumers, I feel that it even overlaps, that there is, in fact, making it harder for people to be accessed, that the bill prevents people's access to the product rather than anything else. Eight. discusses the ingredients. It lists the use of virtually all other substances in the electric canal, but it has a greater variety of devices than the one on the other side of the cigarette. This may be a very good method for taking vitamins. I don't know if anyone would like to smoke, for example. I mean, I'll think of something similar. This may be a very effective means of conveying good information. Does anything stop you from doing that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u29	A respectable president. I have to say, "What?" paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson did not fail in my expectations to have an initial answer to smoking light. I think it might be very interesting--or not. [[Up front.]] Well, with all the fun out of it, it's 8 a.m. essentially a specific selection approach, i.e. We're here to make a decision on that approach. However, the fact is that we don't have information on the effects of steam as such, so it's not just about the substances that are known, but about how steam is taken over a long period of time, etc. As a result, this route is chosen. And once again, I think it's important in general, because I and what. A senator has, as a very refreshing example true, a particular interest in the way things go through the council, and I think it would be an excellent way in general that we could read from such a bill what is under European law and what is local and hence, in fact, what is being discussed in the Committee. Hv. A senator asks about the limitations observed in the prime for the size of refill containers. So to answer, there is very limited flexibility, virtually no one, i.e. These containers are in line with the maximum requirements set out in the bill, so we walk as dose as far as possible according to European legislation. Thus, according to my information, if anyone is limited, the flexibility of the council to influence is extremely limited.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u30	A respectable president. During the introduction to EU rules, our arrival is much sooner in the process than when the council's table is entered. Then I wondered if we have missed an opportunity to make an earlier impression on the process. Or is there any chance that there might be some way that you could do something, perhaps go along with the European Union in this regard? V.E.G. The caution on the bill came by the minister, there was really little warning about cigarettes. This time it seems that we're super-spotted. I wondered, " Is this a sign of the bill? Is it really the response of the World Health Organization and the European Union? ' that we are really too cautious. It is often harder to relax the rules later than to set restrictions at first. Of course, we would like to have medical advice, we would like to take care of them, but the tests made, e.g. In Britain, the harm caused by the World Health Organization has not been confirmed, so when it comes to talking about the lack of harm or harm, it is not entirely accurate. I'm worried not to be taken into account what is known.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u31	A respectable president. About a question why. A senator of our chance to influence past stages is an old and new discussion, and in itself, he goes on to a number of lawsuits that are under the contract. We went very far following the collapse of the economic crisis to gather the design of the Brussels advisers to monitor matters in the early stages. They haven't been renovated after that. It is crucial that the ministry has people there. I understand that the Norwegians have ten times the number of people there to protect the legislation, their situation is actually completely comparable to what we're in. I met an Icelandic specialist in Brussels who said that he woke up with running because it was the feeling of the day's work, having to watch all things really out of the same force as ten Norwegians. It's not just... [[It's a small thing.]] Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson believes it's not a big deal. Regarding the question of being overly cautious, it is also a question. A senator can ask. In my view, it is at least my job to take the position to be as cautious as possible as a health minister and public health minister, to give the benefit of the doubt to the health of the public. If the General decides to put that line somewhere else, that would be the decision of the Generals. But as a health minister, I cannot help but take seriously the World Health Organization's guidelines for these and other matters. And that's why the bill is presented in this picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u32	President. This is where we'll discuss a bill to fix electric fags and electronic refills. There is much to say about the bill, but I have to admit that there are many concerns in it. I'm concerned with the use of strict consumer management, which is more limited than ensures access to electric cigarettes. I'm worried about custody and lack of respect for the individual's freedom. But most of all, I am concerned with the health of the Americans. Each year about 400 people are killed by tobacco abuse in Iceland. The use of tobacco causes social damage and much social cost. One of the biggest steps we have taken to improve the health of Icelanders is to reduce tobacco - related diseases and deaths. I'm concerned that this bill is out of harmony with our emphasis on reducing the harmful effects of tobacco and severely restricting access to the means that have yielded the most results in reducing tobacco consumption. The bill is part of the implementation of the European Parliament and Council Directive and many of the articles in it are taken directly from the directive. It is important to be careful that if we do such laws, we have the means to interpret the directive, because it doesn't have exactly the legal value here. We need to evaluate the best way to implement the directive. The bill on the same subject was submitted by a local health minister at the 146th legislature, but the approach in the bill was somewhat different from what we are discussing here. Then the plan was to take over the electronics under tobacco protection laws. This has to be considered unfortunate, since electric cigarettes can work as an alternative for those who want to stop using tobacco, and thus they differ in nature. The advantage of electric cigarettes is over and over, but we need to be careful that the law says that it is to improve the quality and health of users. I would like to discuss in particular a few of the articles on the bill. First of all, there is Article 4. dealing with warnings on packaging. According to this article, there should be an indication of electrical activity and refills on the health effects of the product as well as the instructions for use and storage. It is quite unfortunate that this article is blurred, and this does not mean that the products that receive meanings and warnings contain nicotine. This can make it difficult for the consumer to choose the dangers, e.g. when a person who has used nicotine electron liquid wants to switch to liquids without nicotine. It would be proper to limit the label to the products that contain nicotine, the product being warned. That's 7. about maximum concentration and size of nicotine liquid and refill. According to the bill, the maximum concentration of the prepared liquid should be 20 mg per ml of nicotine liquid. That standard is very low and may not be sufficient for all who are quitting. Other nicotine products start with a high amount of nicotine, lowering it as the user needs to be reduced. It would be convenient if the same would be available for those who prefer to use electric cigarettes, so it is important that we be careful that former heavy smokers have access to liquids containing enough nicotine to respond to their needs. Seven. will also discuss the maximum refill size, but according to the article, it should be 10 ml, which is very small. The law does not appear to distinguish between nicotine and nicotine-free fluids. This would have to be improved, for there would be no reason to limit the amount of carbon dioxide that does not contain nicotine in this way. For these 10 ml size nicotine liquids, it must be said to be very small. It will include increasing plastic pollution, cost to consumers, and less goods. It will, in a very direct way, limit access to electric cigarettes and make them worse for those who want to stop smoking. Finally, level 7. dealt with maximum size of tank in generators, but according to this article, it should be a maximum of 2 ml. Most devices sold today have much larger tanks and you can wonder if the size of gas mentioned in the law could not be extended to at least medium-sized cylinders. President. I'd also like to mention what shows the limit to the use of electric cigarettes. Here is the list of houses that must not be used by electric smokes. I wondered, " What is the need for this? ' Research has shown that even in κive camps where electric cigarettes are widely used, there is little or no harmful material in the atmosphere. - I'm going to get a shot, with President's permission, and I'm going to quote a study of California Department of Public Health, because I don't know how to translate it. My concerns are whether we're going too far and in effect making it happen that people who are trying to quit smoking and using Αives will just start smoking again. Which would be very bad. This legal bill has received considerable criticism from individuals who use electric cigarettes today. I'm worried about it, and I'm stressing that when we discuss the bill here at the council, we listen to users. If we want electricity to be a real solution for those who want to stop using tobacco, we need to ensure that laws about it are not an indistinguishable burden. Then I'd like to point out a bill presented by members of Pirata at the 146th Court of Justice for electric cigarettes and related products. The processing of the bill involved consultations with users of electronic networks and met their point of view. I would like to encourage members of the council who come to discuss this matter to study the subject of the bill and to consider it when discussing the legal bill discussed here. Clearly, the use of electric cigarettes can help a large proportion of smokers to stop smoking. When it comes to making access to such matters available to the public, we need to be careful not to fall into the pit of fate but to evaluate just as much the viewpoints of different groups exist. It is important to ensure the safety of consumers and the safety of children, but we must also respect the right of those who choose to take advantage of this strategy. We must trust the citizens in order to make informed decisions about our own health. There is no debate that nicotine is an addictive substance. However, the risk of its consumption is small compared to the dangers associated with conventional consumption of tobacco. In spite of this, at least the law on tobacco products is as strict as the law on tobacco if not more strict. For example, according to British studies, smoking is 95% more harmless than smoking ordinary tobacco. So there are studies that show how much more harmless this is. I would like to encourage us to make this bill necessary for the treatment of matters at the council, for us to listen to consumers' viewpoints and ensure that electric cigarettes will continue to be a real alternative for those who want to stop smoking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u33	Mr. President. Again, I'm going to say that I don't mind having rules about electric cigarettes. I was interested in what the health minister mentioned, that we might find out what we have at and what we might not have at our head. I think that's basic. Perhaps it would be best for the European legislation to come to these committees. Then we can move from there to make improvements. I respect the highest perspective. Healthcare Ministers and her role is to be a bit harsh and cautious. I agree with her, I think, when it comes to freedom, it's a complicated concept. Of course, protecting ourselves from dangerous things may involve a measure of freedom. Not only against smoking but also against dangerous things. That's right. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, reports that the British Institute of Public Health is taking over 95% of the dangers. Nicotine in itself is not so dangerous, though it is probably not good. I think it's been recommended by the British Public Health Institute that it should, for example, be done. being a special place in the clinics for a ton of fish instead of tobacco. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she has studied these studies and this recommendation by the British Institute of Public Health. Does she not agree with me that as good and necessary as these legislation are, her objective is to make this real choice of tobacco and to direct people to this consumer form more than it does?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u34	President. Yes, I'll take heart. Senator. In fact, it's a little bit interesting with this British study that I referred to earlier, which showed that the 95% harm to smoking is less than that it is the same as smoking. In this study, it says that the results showed nearly 98◯99 less damage than they thought irresponsiblely advertised that result. I agree with those words. Senator. We have to be careful that we don't make it harder for people, making it inaccessible to have an suspe, instead of smoking cigarettes. It's important, being able to choose this. I think a part of this is also being able to do some of that. I realize we have to limit it in some way, but maybe not that much. If people are sent out to the wind and rain to hunt too, why not just smoke? We must in some way make this more attractive than smoking tobacco. This means that we must not place the same restrictions on tobacco. In particular, we need to watch that research is being carried out. It's developing. There's new information coming up. This European principle is based on old research that has already become out - of - date. Keep that in mind too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u35	Mr. President. I may not be planning on pointing a question to why. A senator rather than a health minister. This was shown in the case of a man. A senator's death is due to smoking every year, isn't it? Something like that. This is probably the largest harmful opportunity of the day, i.e. reducing the premature deaths of millions each year. I think that's why. A minister would do well to consider approaching the matter this way and considering the current research process at the same time that we set up on this highly accurate legislation. I have no objection to the fact that the use is limited, even if it is not to be used in the indoors and other activities - it is not just dangerous; it is associated with discomfort, smell, steam, and a number of things that may not apply everywhere. But it's gonna take at least becoming so that smokers benefit directly from having electric cigarettes rather than continue to be corrupt.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u36	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for a very good speech. I'd like to point out something that has a bearing on how to fish anywhere. Now I have a brother who has asthma and takes bus every day to and from high school and regularly complains that there are others using electronic cigarettes in public transportation. This has a significant effect on his quality of life, his ability to breathe, and he complains a lot about lung discomfort. It seems that a senator has a lot of knowledge about electronics and this subject, and I wanted to ask about one phenomenon that is nicotine-created. Seven. it is called refill liquid, but now you can go to a store that sells electric cigarettes and buy nicotine, which is pure nicotine, not a refill but a way to improve nicotine levels. I wonder what. A senator believes that this article will prevent or not sell because it is not the full - time thing itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u37	President. I would like to explain that I never talked about the feeling that there should be a wave anywhere in the house. I'm just wondering if it's possible to limit it a little too much. I'm fully aware that this isn't happening everywhere. Schools, elementary schools, and high school are obviously places where it is acceptable to limit wave - smoking. Besides, it's all about common sense and politeness, asking people around them if they're okay by hunting. If you have asthma or you have it against it, you don't get it rough. You can really trust people to be reasonable and polite, to some extent. Now, about that nicotine-based question, actually, I think that's why. A senator is better at this than I am in the matter. I don't know myself, and I just don't know it, and I haven't seen it in this article of the law in mind. I'm sorry, I can't answer that. But it would be very interesting to know about this decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u38	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for a good answer. I agree, though, that nicotine is something we need to examine. I also have to admit that I am deeply concerned about these small units, this limitation of refill size. I wondered, " Is the senator willing to look at some clear - cut solutions to this matter? ' Now we are talking about very much plastic usage if we start selling only these small units of refill liquid. I wondered if it will be possible to bring your own 20 milligrams of glass boxes and fill in a fishing camp. It is imperative that we deal with our plastic usage in Iceland. I wondered, " Can I see it as a solution to the high plastic usage of these little units? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u39	President. I appreciate this inquiry. These are important speculations, since the size of these sizes is too much for us to limit in this way. When it comes to finding solutions, that people bring their own reused dressing, the question is, Will people do it? Has history shown this? Actually, we need to make it easier for people to be elated, not entangled in it. This is more likely to work. And I don't understand the need to limit this. Are we going to sell only four cigarettes in a box from now on? We're just gonna sell vodka in little bottles? Why are we limiting these things in this way? Is it not possible to assume that people are wise and are allowed to make a decision about their own body? That's the check. It would be interesting to hear the evidence for this. Is this supposed to make people less smokers? I don't think it's likely. This will make the product much more expensive for people and environment and will limit access to people. In what way will people think, "Oh, I just start smoking cigarettes again? ' That is certainly not what we want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u40	A respectable president. Yes, of course I do. Of course, I'm celebrating a prime launch from the government, of course, it's not about a wealthy park to cry and especially in big cases. We're excited to see them. I'm certainly celebrating this bill, and I'm glad there's going to be a law on this scene. It is such a new way or way to enjoy addiction with minimal damage. This is a solution to tobacco smokers, but tobacco is one of the worst human epidemics of later life, as we know. How important it is, then, that we make wise rules! I am concerned with many users in this new practice because of the bill and the secretary to examine it carefully. Whether or not it's tied on both shoes because of European rules, I don't know what it is, but a few things have been mentioned here. This is the size of the device, i.e. the size of a refill, which is then limited to 10 ml. Today I understand there are 60, even 100 ml. It's not a large package, and I ask: What's the need to make users more difficult for? For the tank itself, the calculated size is 2 ml. What is the need to reduce them so much? Today, I understand they are 3.53/4 ml. What is the need to reduce them? To make it more difficult for people to go this way to get more involved in addiction than smoking tobacco in the form of cigars or in other ways. Of course, we are eager to wait for research, new research on this method of nicotine abuse, but studies show that this is much less dangerous and therefore more desirable and, of course, the preferred course of binding it, the mule's regard for rules and laws to prevent people from going this way, choosing a course beyond tobacco smoking. So I'm pointing out why. Ministers of these ideas and I also encourage consumers, users of this new custom to use this opportunity when the case is called and the authorities are requested to make their comments to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u41	Mr. President. We'll talk about a bill that's taking the law frame around you. During that discussion, I would like to mention especially the highest. The health minister, the Svavarsdóttir. As a health minister, she says that she needs to be careful, to give the benefit of the public's health, and to refer to information from the World Health Organization. First in my speech, I'm going to approach it out of public health and how the council needs to handle these matters. Information since this European directive was written in 2012, approved in 2014, has apparently not changed much. Four years have passed, and many studies have shown that the damage resulting from a virus that is at least 95% less, at least, than from smoking. This is information that we need to take into account when setting legislation at the General Assembly, if we are to respect this public health goal. Another factor we need to consider. On the basis of the World Health Organization, this has been set up in Europe, and a minister says that it looks, and has previously established a series of WHO directors, who had the group that has been looking at the wave and destructiveness of the World Health Organization, become a great fighter against banning the pressure, is against setting these regulations, is against the WHO position, and is responsible for a number of reasons, and is prepared to establish this quality committee which is causing this issue to happen after we have discussed it here and the data on the table. What has happened since WHO took its stand, i.e. World Health Organization? What has happened since the European Union wrote its Directive 2012 and since the European Union adopted the 2014 Directive? In view of tobacco, what has happened since the onset of public health and harm? If it is not taken into account by a health committee, it does not take into account public health issues. The evidence today, as I mentioned, is that it is 95% less dangerous to go back than smoking tobacco and a minister pointed to the fact that in the past there was no law code given on tobacco and tobacco manufacturers were given the benefit of the doubt. In this case, when it comes to nicotine, there was no such thing as subsututant tea or product that could be replaced with tobacco. Now, however, we know about the dangers of tobacco, have passed a law on harmful tobacco because we know it kills 400 people a year in Iceland. That's up to 20% of all the deaths in Iceland. We know that. The minister says we have to take special care of ourselves, though, that we should not let the wave benefit the doubt, let us give the public health of the doubt, I suppose, but the wave is just what people are changing to, i.e. from tobacco use, which we know kills 400 people a year, people are switching to the wave that studies show is 95% less harmful. We must look to it; otherwise, it would be extremely irresponsible from a public viewpoint, extremely irresponsible. A well - being committee must therefore take this into account, and I believe that she will. Then we can naturally go to the autonomic court, i.e. People are to have the right to take in the products that harm them, even if they know them. We have alcohol, we have tobacco, but if we're going to take the public health problem, it's highly irresponsible not to consider all the new information that has been identified as the difference between tobacco harm and wave. We also need numbers on how many people stop smoking and have stopped smoking and moved to the same standard today. And how it is to put restrictions on use, bring all kinds of obstacles, put people on the deck to go fishing rather than be able to wave in, they are more likely to smoke. How does that affect us? We need to get numbers about it because it's where we're talking about human life, we know that it can cost lives. We need to take this into account on the welfare committee and then again during a discussion at the council, and I believe that a health minister is interested in such a discussion and that such information takes place - and she will admit it - and we take a stand on a moral basis as far as the public health issues are concerned. Then, of course, at the council, we can add the liberal views as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u42	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. Healthcare Minister here re-checks for a bill to fix electric cigarettes. A bill on the same subject was delivered by the former Supreme Court. A health minister at the 146th legislature, then it was brought as part of a tobacco defense law. But just in on this bill, it's the highest. The health secretary is now providing electronic guidelines, along with more new indicators. This book is developing a long demand frame and rule of electric cigarettes as the recommended bill is based on the European Union Directive. I don't want to be too brief about prevention, child prevention, and youth. In view of the increased use of generators, we need to remember that their consumption among young people and children has grown dramatically. As noted in the October 2016 survey of Studies and analyses last year, 46% of boys under 18 years of age had experimented with electricettes once or more, and in the same study 40% of girls under 18 years of age were reported to have tried such devices. As we know, there are various types of electric fags. Some contain nicotine and others do not. To date, this has not been clearly defined. The time has long come to set aside and make regular arrangements for this type of nicotine use. For those using electric cigarettes, it has not so far been clear whether nicotine content is in the product and in what amount it is. Here in a pita, members of the council who have spoken of nicotine as harmless, but that certainly is not the case. Nicotine is a strong addictive agent and is thus classified by the EEA. Also referred to a report on the bill we are discussing here. In the 2014 Directive of the EU, it is specifically stated that electric cigarettes can drive the path to nicotine addiction and, finally, traditional tobacco consumption, as they closely imitate smoking and make normal use of tobacco. This was also shown in the case of Lára G. Sigurðardóttir, doctor and educational director of the Iceland Cancer Society, at a conference held on September 29, 2016, with a group of vice - related colleagues. Lára Sigurðardóttir noted that nicotine is nothing different from anything else, and according to her research, teenagers who use electric cigarettes are more likely to be led into cigarette smoking. Lára's case in support of logic quoted several studies, including a vast U.S. study that showed such a connection. She also mentioned a feature that is of interest in the talk in general, and we discussed, as well as in the discussions on the subject of the highest level. The former health minister Fearari Proppér, that's an aspect I've been interested in further examination, i.e. that tobacco companies have invested tremendously in the electricity industry. According to U.S. studies, the amount paid for electronic advertising has increased to 20fold in three years. There is clearly the hope of profit from the electronic tobacco companies who see money in the market. Unfortunately, the youngest generation is the easiest to catch when it comes to electricity use because without regulations and without some sort of legal code around this category, we do not respond to WHO recommendations. This contributes to the normal use of nicotine in children and young people. We can see that since 2016, when the study I witnessed, the use of electronic equipment among young people has increased. But I'm glad that, at last, there's a regulation around this party. As prescribed in the bill, there is also a sharpening and allowing the import of generators, which to date has not been performed. For those who view this as a necessary tool to reduce their use of tobacco, this is a very specific rule around it. In the discussion here on April 25, by the first bill from the former Supreme Court. My health minister urged that there be instruction and prevention in the basic schools of the country and for young people, as well as for the meaning. I see that it's been added to this bill. It's good. I think, with this, it's very important that we teach children and young people about electric cigarettes and their potential harm. I think it's been a long time. And also, if electric cigarettes are useful to people who want to stop using the so - called traditional tobacco and use it instead, I think it is good to explain the rules and the box on sale, import and advertisements and where and when to take this product. I'm gonna support this bill, and I'm glad it's finally a rule. It's like electric cigarettes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u43	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much for the discussion on this subject, the discussion on various sides, and I especially want to thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Yrenfjörndóttir for making a clear statement here at the end of the preparatory program and the lesson that has not been so much discussed in this discussion in another way, which, of course, is of utmost importance. I would like to have what has been presented in the general discussion to say that, first of all, the legislation that we make at any given time should be based on the best available information. That's the way it's supposed to be. Therefore, we should not fall victim to the danger of selecting the research that is being conducted by our people. There's no problem. There is no difficulty in finding research that supports virtually any aspect of this matter as well as that of others. Therefore, it is important to maintain that when a previous bill is presented, key members of the community that have these issues, the office of surgeon, the cancer community, the Medical Association of Iceland, and more of those people, are unanimously aware of the importance of covering this aspect by legislation. The same is true of the World Health Organization. This has particularly been about the time since the construction of the work in its time. The World Health Organization's view of extreme caution is on the subject of extreme caution. She's still the same. Of course, it is the only way to be responsible lawmakers at any given time. On the other hand, I would like to say, because I specifically thanked you for the discussion, that I would like to ask the senators not to come up on the platform and say that this is a bane. It's not. To say such things are false. Electric cigarettes are permitted first by this legislation, as the situation today is out of control. Today, we are ensuring adequate consumer protection for those who make this choice, for the first time. I agree with the importance of listening to electric users, and especially to heavy smokers who have found a way to get rid of tobacco. Therefore, people who want softer legislation, more liberality or what they call, not to kill the debate with claims that are being banned by this bill. That's wrong. An honest, open exchange is unnecessary when it comes to misinformation. It's supposed to be that way. However, I may feel that after this discussion, it is generally important to us here at the council, and then I am speaking as a senator, that we have clear eyes on how we submit to European legislation and in what ways we can apply ourselves to the flexibility in our country. It is repeatedly mentioned in this discussion of strengths, quantities, sizes of packaging, etc., that it is at the bottom with reasonable logic. This is a joke about small bottles of vodka and three cigarettes per box, etc. This part is in the European rules. We can just talk about it as nonsense, something we don't want at all, but let's discuss it elsewhere where we could possibly have some effect on it. We can talk about it, but let's not act like we can change it here. However, there are factors that we can influence and have been mentioned, including where to consume the product. We can influence it, have different opinions. Here, I suggest a fairly strict approach. It's a approach that's gone in Norway, too, in Finland. They say the restaurant owners decide for themselves. There's another way. It hasn't been a factor here to give them responsibility to restaurant owners. A health committee may find other answers to that question. The age limit is another choice we make here, how it's in the law. Then I'd especially like to refer to it as a boy. paritaprevir The Red Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörndótttir, the prophylaxis program. Education, it's also domestic. It's our decision, it's not inside the European law, that we want to be educated. Don't we? Do we want to avoid it? Reduce it? Have more? There's something we can do. Where's the surveillance? Where do we put the surveillance? We're obliged to be monitored somewhere by the act of the law. Do we want to keep it with ATSVR? No, I guess not. At the Narcotics Agency? Well, it could be. Here's a suggestion that it's at the Netostry because it's not the kind of equipment that's available on the market. There is something that the committee can discuss and discuss. But the principle is this: It is the shared rule in Europe that we are part of as members of the European Economic Area. We are involved in this by law. It is important that we at the Council be absolutely aware of the scope of the Icelandic Council to influence such legislation. I trust the welfare committee will keep that subject well in place, call for the best available information at any given time, and keep the facts in place in that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u44	Mr. President. Perhaps the minister of health care, Sóggis Svavarsdóttir, is showing me that there is no prohibition against woe. That's what I think. I may have dropped it out of my system along with some other factors, but it's forbidden to wave inside the door according to the bill, isn't it? Yeah. That's what I wanted them to say. That's what the bill says. This means that when you don't wave at the door, you are more likely to go out to satisfy your nicotine addiction, and you know smokers are more likely to smoke than you are. Of course, we need numbers about it. I don't have them. But this is what I've heard from every one of them that's changing. About what can you change: What time does Iceland have to accept this directive? If there seems to be some lack of information to make sure that we are not putting restrictions on the consumption of gooks, or nicotine consumption, in the case of addicts who are trying to reduce smoking - because we are talking about human life and we have to be very careful about that. It might be possible to postpone it, i.e. if the council says, "We can't make a decision about this, "and bring this back to the minister, what is the deadline to accept the directive?" And even after the deadline has passed, how long until we are judged? Because we're always postponing the EEA, and we're being judged, and there doesn't seem to be a big deal in the Icelandic government. If there is information to know if we are putting restrictions on people about reducing tobacco use, we must do so with great caution. Perhaps it would justify our continuing to postpone the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Since we've communicated, I'd like to ask. A senator to respond to me in his second answer about the wave inside the door and his theories that if a wave doesn't get in, he'll go out and get a cigarette. What record does the senator have to lay the basis for this? Is there any kind of research on this? Because that was a very frank statement in his words.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u46	There are no data on...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u47	Right. It is very important that you do so. Hv. The head of the welfare committee spoke in his talk earlier specifically about, of course, it would be unacceptable for people to wave anywhere, i.e. that it was permitted everywhere. I'd like to ask the senator if he has any idea that these limitations should be different from those in the bill, which, as mentioned in my case, would be a relatively rigid route in the bill. For the EEA in general. Truly, this is not the case; it is not. However, it is a question of whether it is desirable that we always have a case of shame before we finish its release from the council. There's been a mistrial for us at the Icelandic Parliament that there's been a lot of pressure here on EU legislation and the introductions. There's been a general concern about how much we've fallen behind and how little time we take on the clock and the calendar in which we're going to go to this EEA deal we're in. This applies to these laws as well as to other laws. But as it turned out in my answer, we're not exactly under pressure on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u48	Mr. President. Then I will call again, "What is the number of times?" When would we be in shame? It must be fixed before what time we have to fulfill this and when shame would come. I want answers. Regarding our failure to be ashamed: No, and even if we were, we need to understand what is on the other side of the balance. One thing is to be ashamed of not meeting EEA rules at the specified time; the other is whether we have reached the definitive conclusion of the effect of this legislation on the fact that fewer nicotine addicts or smokers go to less harmful measures or measures we know are very harmful to resources we have at least basic research to be less harmful. Then we're actually talking about public health. It's the public health client I'm sharpening to with regard to this. This is the central route to nicotine, which is getting very popular. These are matters for young people to take into consideration and point them out. When people have drugs over their heads, it's a question of whether advertising belongs. Although I am very liberal, I am quite ready to look at it. Drugs generally sell themselves relatively much, a man from a man, the most powerful marketing. The question of whether to add to some form of authority. I totally understand that point. I don't know exactly what the overall impact would be, but that's not what I'm looking at. What I'm looking at is that I don't have the data on how many smokers are sent out by their wave instead of hunting at my desk, I don't have them. Like I said, I don't know. But that is what we hear from waves, or from smokers who are switching to woe. Then we must be sure that we are not laying a stone on the street of a smoker to stop smoking with legislation here. That's what I'm pointing at.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u49	A respectable president. Only clear as to the introductions, because I was not precise in my counterargument to that question. The senator, then, is that when this decision is made to the joint EES committee, we should have already introduced it. We are dependent on an external time frame in these materials. That's why I can't name a specific date, but that's how it runs in the timeline. In this interaction with smoking, and stopping tobacco, what it's forcing a man to do, the prevention show and all of this, it's a very complex interaction. The latestcommunicator, likely to appear on the website of the office next week, has gathered new numbers on the use of electronic equipment. It shows that daily use of electricites in the age of 18 and older was measured by about 4% in 2017, which makes up about 8,000. Similar proportions, or about 4%, used electric cigarettes less than daily. This is an increase from comparable measurements from 2016 in which nearly 3% or 6,000 people used electric cigarettes every day. This is the change from year to year. Of those who used electric cigarettes, 55% of them smoked concomitantly using generators according to these data. This number has dropped from year to year, and in 2017, only 40% of those using electric cigarettes smoked, which is joyful. So this rate decreases. However, the proportion of never smokers who use electric cigarettes has been increased from 7% to 12% per year. This is a special concern and concern of this prevention and education program that we've only been able to discuss here, but those using electric cigarettes who have stopped smoking are growing from 38% to 48%, perhaps the happiest in all of this. But I am making known the importance of this being discussed by the Council of Congress and that it will be done on a objective basis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u50	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 302, No. 215. It contains a bill to correct a change in law No. 61/2006, about salmon and trout fishing. The bill is made up at the pro- and innovation services, taking the initiative from the marine dignitary and agricultural ministers. This suggests changes to salmon and trout law, No. 61/2006. The bill suggests that regulations in Article 20. The law that a Minister can by the regulations set out an on-fish policy, including... to forbid or limit all-country fishing in certain areas, if this is thought to be necessary in the assessment of the Marine Research Centre. The reason for this bill is by letter, day. On November 24, 2015, a Fish Room requested that the Ministry take part in banning or limiting hunting in Iceland and with the country. The Ministry also received a memo from Veterans Office on the subject, day after day. 30th November 2015 The proposed ban on river fishing is that a core policy is based on a high population size reduction in the population population, so much that from 2009 onward the aluminum was in the UN-based list of species of wild animals and plants that are estimated to be at risk of extinction. The Ministry also received a letter, day after day. February 3, 2016, a formal counseling on the case of the Veterans Institute, now a Marine Research Institute, research and counseling agencies of the seas and lakes, after uniting the institutions by law No. 112/2015 and No. 113/2015. It explains the biology and the life cycle of the aluminium, the labour of this country, the state of the strain, and the Agency's counselling. For one thing, it shows that the oil stock is in danger and can withstand ill - fishing. The Agency believes that there will be a need for legislation on the terms of espionage in this country while the root state is under control and that a minister will be given the necessary legal authority to set such rules as the rules as well as that, if an eel is caught in a trout or salmon fishing industry, it must be released. In my opinion, this is counseling the National Institute of Marine Research, which should have the same situation as any other advice for the same institution. In this regard too, the letter of the Hunting Agency quoted earlier, from November 24, 2015, following the reference work from Fish House, says that it is now in almost all countries that salaries are banned and eels are on bans as traders and the International Oceanographic Research Council, along with other international fish - fishing institutions, and while this is true. There are rules about river fishing here at 20. track No. 61/2006, with subsequent changes. According to the directive, the principle is that salaries are allowed in Iceland all year long. At the end of the year, fishing is usually a factor in the loss of salmon and trout. It also states that hunting companies or hunting ports where non-fishing countries should set up further rules for hunting times and fishing restrictions in individual fishing waters, i.e. The innovation programmes established by the Fish Room are the source of information from the Institute of Marine Research. If hunting companies or seafood workers fail to fulfill this obligation, a fish lab can take the initiative in making such rules. The use of a new schedule should include For a time or local peace of the aluminium and the type and disposal of authorized fishing equipment should be established. Clearly, it can be a difficult task, including a difficult one. does not share the view of all hunting companies. However, there is no authority in the law, as mentioned earlier, or other laws to ban or limit appeals in Iceland. On the bill's contract, it was specifically discussed whether the law can be passed on to a minister to ban or limit appeal, or if this authority could be based on other laws. It was also considered that hunting companies themselves set rules for such prohibitions in their innovation programmes, as set out in Article 20. The laws of this country, however, can only recommend temporary and local bans in the fishing area, as well as that which are not operating fishing in all areas where a man is hunting or possibly catching. In order to prevent, or limit, oil fishing here on the land and on the Internet laws, there must be a clear legal authority to do so, and it must also be based on scientific foundations, as well as well as unsatisfactory. As I have mentioned in my case, such a law is not available in current laws or regulations. The reference to what I've traced above is suggested in this bill that a new paragraph be added to 20. (b) How do we know that Jehovah's day is near? mg, where a minister is authorized to establish in accordance with the requirements of eea fishing, including to ban or limit it in certain situations if this is thought to be necessary in the assessment of the Marine Research Institute. A respectable president. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the series of articles that feature the bill, which contains a detailed discussion of its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u51	Mr. President. Many may feel that love has reached the General Assembly. There are very few people who know this remarkable fish who seem to have no significant significance here in Iceland and no one knows how much has happened in the country. Yet, he has long been caught in some quantity in many parts of the country, including the United States. In streams and small rivers, and even where there are warm ones, the river has kept in place, even in cuts, incisions, and so on. It's a fish called aquafish, spawning far south to sea, including the sea. in the famous Sea of Saragosa, which is between South America and Africa, where there is eternal flame. Then the fish comes here and stays at least within a year. There are restrictions or bans on hunting on aluminum in Iceland, including At the request of a foreign organization, both the organization of hunting nations and international organizations, which are at peace and in such matters, as well as experts, with the approval of Icelandic experts. Of course, people can ask themselves why, what is the background. Then these fine fish come to be, in effect, what is called in Latin pair pro toto, or things for a whole. You see, there are environmental changes in a sea that calls for this peace rather than for much fishing in my opinion. It's a global climate change, global warming. It's as if people know it's faster than some models expected, including Here in the north. There are, of course, other factors that have a measure of influence, fishing, but we see less environmental change, such as acidification in the ocean. In some parts of the world, the acidification of the sea begins to become a serious problem, e.g. On the west coast of California. These environmental changes reduce the number of fish stocks. They move, even causing disease in them. That's a very good example for them. The number of previously known crops here is literally reduced, and it is not necessarily possible to link it. The transfer of strains is known here. An example is the mackerel. And diseases that develop in certain crops, such as herring, can be attributed to these environmental changes. We can move to shore and explore seabirds or new types of birds in forests and elsewhere and, above all, diseases that have begun to spread here, including. with uncontaminated insects, including Because of weather conditions, but now we have a clear way in, or even travel with people. All of this makes it necessary for us to consider what journey we are on. We can move to shore and further and look at the other changes in the environment that we see, whether it's on the move or not. All of this reminds us that we must be successful in fighting climate change. I can also name a robbery; although this does not necessarily apply to the river, it is clear that very many of the world's fish stocks are now victims of plundering that needs to be prevented. Thus, we are talking not only about sustainable fishing on rivers in the future but about other fish stocks and other living things that we are going to eat. I encourage this bill to pass its traditional route through a committee and to be quickly approved in pre - Ppolitan reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u52	A respectable president. I offer on behalf of Iceland's Westnoric Council a proposal to evangelize at the Council today. The objective of the Western National Council is to work in the interests of Western England, to protect the resources and culture of the North Atlantic, to cooperate with the government and national administrations of the Western states, to improve cooperation within the north-northic partnerships and to be a congregatory team between West-Northerland partners and other multinational stakeholders and member states. In their work in the Western Council, members of the Parliament endeavor to achieve their aims by resolutions and proposals to governments and governments by active participation in Norwegian cooperation, cooperation with other members of the Western community, cooperation with Arctic institutions and organizations at conferences and meetings. The Western Council has concluded on a number of issues, including environmental and resource issues, increasing country culture and school and sports teamwork, to name just a few. The conclusions of the Western Council are presented to the General Assembly in the form of the synonym. Today, there will be five synonyms made here. There has been some delay in offering suggestions, including the following: caused by an exacerbation and change in the Icelandic political environment. On the roof. 185 is a proposal for the interpretation of the Western postschool institutions. I now recommend it for the Western Institute of Iceland. She reads this way: ▪ The General concluded that it would challenge the government to have an assessment of how it can be reasonably possible to establish a Western postschool in Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, and Iceland. The proposal suggests that the proposal is presented on the basis of the Western Council's conclusions. 2/2016 approved at the annual meeting of the Council of August 22, 2016, in Qaqortoq, Greenland. The Western government has developed an increased knowledge of communities and has, among other things, developed Western countries. in cooperation with rural society and governments hosting Western days where every country has been exposed to events aimed at informing the public about the other countries. The Western Council believes that schools are important for young people to grow up with awareness of Western countries and their inhabitants as well as for Western countries to become acquainted with and learned about the culture and language of neighboring countries. You can build on the postschool dance program. This concept, after school, has been translated directly from Danish. We have found no more English than that, but these schools are known in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. It is not common for youths to go to high school, but it has been since the 1960's that such a study has been conducted in Denmark. Two secondary schools have also been formed in Greenland, i.e. of Qaigianguit and Manitotsoq. Students there are between the ages of fourteen and seventeen. They experience new things, prepare for high school, or other studies, and learn to be away from home and to learn how to manage themselves, be trained for social skills. The same is true of the Faeroe Islands, who often go to postschool in Denmark after high school or take the last year of their elementary school. The preparation of the study in each country should be based on culture and the language of that country, since the main goal is to share these factors with students. Some of the educational systems of Western countries are different. So the postschool arrangement in the three countries needs to be agreed on and taken into account when and if these recommendations become reality. Mr. President. I hereby recommend this proposal to wish it a course in the Committee to become a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u53	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a interpretation, which is to be found on a threshing floor. 186, on behalf of the Western Council's Iceland Department, on the western co-operation of marine education. The suggestion reads as follows: The General concluded to challenge the government to explore the possibility of cooperation between Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland on the education of fishing. According to one report, this proposal is presented on the basis of Western Council's conclusions. 2/2017 approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body, September 1, 2017, in Reykjavík. Fishing is one of the most important jobs in Western America, and the exports of marines depend on a high proportion of exported countries. Marine Ministers of the West Nile already have good cooperation between them, including in the field of the Norwegian Ministers Committee, as well as the research institutions of the countries, are closely involved. With increased cooperation in the fields of the fishing industry, countries can share experience and knowledge of fish farming. The first step toward that may be cooperation in training in the field of fish technology and quality control. Education in fish technology contributes to improving the use of marine products and encourages innovation in the industry. There is an education available in the three countries, e.g. At the University of Fish Technology of Iceland in Grindasvík, LINILI, Narsaq, Greenland, and high school in the Faeroe Islands. As a result of land exchange, a wide range of basic education could be provided in fishing, fishing technology, and quality control, focusing on training. With this cooperation, countries could increase knowledge and quality in marine food production and create educational opportunities and opportunities for further education in the field. Extensive education in the fishing road is, for example, an education in the fishing field. to serve as a bachelor in fishing education at the University of Akureyri, a diplomat in fish technology at the ARTEK ▪ Fishing Center in Sisimiut, and the United Nations Marine School for Disease Control, Iceland. The cooperation of marine education is beneficial for all three countries. Each country has a unique understanding of different affairs within the seabed and many countries face similar challenges. Thus, the General recommends the Ministry of Education and Culture to investigate the possibility of cooperation with the heads of education in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands for education in the seaside. Mr. President. I hereby propose this proposal. It aims to work for important interests in common in this area, to impart knowledge that has become considerable in all these countries. Is there a strong interest in furthering this cooperation and will work on it if the European government makes that decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u54	Mr. President. I recommend a resolution to be held on behalf of the Western Council, which is found on the deck. 187, to hold a conference on the state of Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland in the new international reality. The suggestion is as follows: The Council of the United States concluded to challenge the government to hold a conference on the state of Western England (Island, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland) in the new reality of international politics. A report says: This proposal is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 3/2016 approved at the annual meeting of the Council of August 22, 2016, in Qaqortoq, Greenland. After the Cold War ended, the three Western countries became increasingly peripheral to international politics, where the limelight was directed toward the Middle East and China. The Russians and the Americans cut into their armory cages and even the United States. was in steps to reduce the operation of military stations in the three Western countries. In recent years, international politics have again become a big deal. Russia has been involved in a number of conflicts in Europe, a stream of refugees from central Eastern countries and Africa has increased significantly, and the threat of terrorism seems to have increased as well. In Turkey, the military attempted a coup and policy of Trident against Europe has changed dramatically. In addition, the Chinese'interest in the world has increased, and they have even been. live their sights in the West-Northern. There is mainly a controversy between Russia and NATO that have brought people back to the Western North countries in international politics, but the refugee stream and the Chinese's increased interest in Western countries have also contributed to this trend. International political inquiries are expected to reach the three countries. For example, NATO may once again promote military bases at the North Atlantic. All the Western countries are without warfare, are in NATO, and are in the same geographic region. So the countries could play a similar role in future conflicts as the aim of the conference would be to prepare countries for a new role in the affairs of the international government. Mr. President. I propose this suggestion with the expectation that she will be given a careful consideration by the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u55	Mr. President. The importance of the small countries of the North Atlantic should be clear most of the time. I'll just mention a few things. I'm going to mention knowledge of the environment and experience of using nature, and I'm going to mention initiatives for solutions that are relevant to those topics, even novel solutions, innovation. I'm going to mention the important interests the countries have in these regions and make the nations the protectors of the country and of the sea in this vast sea and region of the North Atlantic and the North Sea. Being custodians in such an area gives us a role. Let me give you a wide variety of cultures and society that seek ordinary peaceful solutions. What a fine example! The three countries are already in the circle of world affairs. A painter told me first. You're absolutely right. There is growing interest in northern waters in the warm climate. Great nations and nations are looking to the western north, as we can call this region or sea level. In view of this, I'd like to encourage this important conference resolution proposal for a new statement in conference to be accepted as everyone and that such a convention is going to have a good way here - I don't dare say if, but when it's held.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u56	Mr. President. I now recommend a proposal to smell the threshing floor. 188, about the printing of Western songbooks. The suggestion reads as follows: The Council of the United States concluded to challenge the government's interest in the Greenland and the Faeroe Islands in cooperation with the publication of Western songbooks in a smooth manner. An article that follows the suggestion suggests that the article should include:Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: This proposal is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 1,2017, approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body, September 1, 2017, in Reykjavík. The Western Council's core agreement of September 24, 1985, discusses the need for Western citizens to have the strength, power, and development of their cooperation in culture, business, and transportation. Several factors have been worked on in this regard. Increased cooperation increases understanding between nations and promotes peaceful relations between them. During the 32 years since the signing of the stock market, a close partnership between the members of the United States has developed and has contributed to an increase in cultural ties between the nations. A Western songbook containing no - name songs in English, French, and Greenlandn would be presented to the inhabitants of the country as a public language and song culture of their neighbors. The proposal encourages the government of Iceland to advocate the publication of a Western songbook by law on the three national languages. The first step in this direction would be to set up a team of professional people from the three countries that would choose the laws and make them reflect. The financing of the work force should include the publication of the songbook in the three countries as well as the pay of artists'dues. Over the years, Western authorities have collected 90 laws from the three countries and could build up the new working group. Mr. President. On behalf of the Western Council of Iceland, I now propose this proposal, and I have expectations that its subject will be inspired by the State Department to handle it in a positive way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u57	Mr. President. I shall conclude here for a proposal for a synopsis which may be found on a threshing floor. 189, for the studies in marine microplastic organisms in the North Atlantic. The suggestion reads as follows: ▪ The General concluded to challenge the government to start cooperation with the Faeroe Islands and Greenland for the study of microplastics in marine organisms and the spread of plastic pollution in the North Atlantic. A report suggesting that it is presented on the basis of the Western Council's conclusions, no. 3/2017 and agreed to meet with the Governing Body on September 1, 2017, in Reykjavík. Seafood is a basic work in Western countries, therefore it is important to protect marine resources. Plastic pollution at sea threatens marine ecosystems and can have long - term effects on marine life and thus on land supply. It is estimated that every year some 8 million tons of plastic waste end up in oceans, reaching 17 million tons each year in 2025. Plastic pollution does not affect only the area of waste into the ocean, as the plastic is distributed by ocean currents. In some places, waste is collected into some islands, and larger plastic wastes can be a problem for sea animals and seabirds. The plastic will eventually break into microplastics, and the ocean will also be flushed out of the country. Microplastics occur, including from car tires, skin products, toothpaste. Increased studies of the presence of microplastics in the marine food chain are needed and have consequences. Governments also need to take measures to reduce plastic pollution and its impact on the environment. One of the UN's global objectives for sustainable development, 14 out of seventeen, is water - related to life. Targets read: ▪ Not later than 2025 will be prevented and significant reductions in all types of marine pollution, especially from land activities, including land. waste in the sea and contamination from nutrients Furthermore, the Treaty of the Western Council states that the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, and Iceland have a common interest in preserving and controlling the use of the living resources of the countries and that the protection of these resources is important to world food production. In view of this, it is challenged by the government to start cooperation with the Faeroe Islands and Greenland administration for the study of microplastic microspheres in marine organisms and the spread of plastic pollution in the North Atlantic. The collection and analysis may be performed in cooperation with the three European Marine Research Centres. Mr. President. I propose this proposal, and I expect it to go to bed. Foreign Directoring Committee for a careful discussion, as this is an important concern for the inhabited earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u58	Mr. President. The nature of the subject presented here is basically just one word, i.e. Waste. In order to produce 1 litre of bottled water, an average of 1.6◯3 litres of water is needed after the method of manufacture and materials in the container and the position at the manufacturing site. I haven't seen the figures on selling bottled water here, but it's as if everyone knows enough clean tap water in most human quarters here, but the global sales are probably about 200 billion wrecks a year. Of them, 25% is sold in the United States, with about 4% of humanity. The total sales of bottled water worldwide total totals a total of $5500,100 billion a year. That's a lot of money. Most of the water is as is known to be blocking soft plastic bottles from large companies. There are countless plastic cases, plastic lids, all fast - food bars, plastic cutlery, tea, coffee, and some drinking, finally all the sweet sodas and fruit drinks. In whole, this plastic usage is fairy tale. According to experts on resource assessment, the 21st century will include a period of maximal production of chemicals from the world's major mineral resources. The answer to the threat of almost full resource deficiency, even if only some chemicals, is so that more than 90% of all materials falling after use will be recycled if properly planned. This applies, e.g. applies to metals and a variety of rare minerals, but this also applies to plastics. In many ways, plastic avatar is the resource problem. It is derived from a limited, uninvolved, non-sustainable resource, and is designed to break down very late in nature. Much plastic decays or shreds into surface layers for centuries or reaches groundwater, rivers, ponds, lakes, and into the sea. The use of plastics to the extent that the population of North America and Europe probably lacks our annual use around 40 levels. a ton, could be more than 60. tons a year. Plast is well over 20% of waste in recycling and waste plants. Now it is recycling plastic by exporting it. That's a big improvement. More than 90% of the world's plastic plastic plastics, with a value of 70 to 100 billion euro disappearing into the environment each year. A map of plastic objects lands in the ocean where a flow of flows is made around the oceans. The largest is near the center of the Pacific Ocean. He's got a good size estimate of a seven- to twenty-fold area in Iceland. It is estimated that about 10% of plastic production products land annually in the ocean, perhaps between 20 and 30 million tons. A limited area count in the ocean suggests that more than 5,000 billion tiny and large plastic strips, which are more than 5 mm [5 mm] in diameter of water in the oceans. Weight is estimated to be equal to the annual plastic world production. The quantity and spread of dangerous plastic microspheres in the environment of cosmetics, toothpaste and others are unknown. It is difficult to estimate a total of 1,750 million dollars, but it is more than a year. One reason for the use and production of plastic shops and plastic bridges is that it is highly energy - sparing compared with similar products from other substances. The evaluation of the benefits, necessities, and environmental effects of plastics is also considered, since it involves many non-energy expenditures in production. The comprehensive assessment of the environmental impact of plastics is not in the best interests of the material, let alone the recommendation of our association. In recent years, a new surface has been exposed in discussions about the effects of plastic on the environment, i.e. on organisms. It's just the microsphere I mentioned earlier. There are particles and larger pieces in the bloodstream or in the digestive system of animals, even our own. There is also no cover for plastic items that run around animals, e.g. plastic ribbons or a ghost network from nylon reduce a lot of life forms to death. Today, in December 2015, two years ago, the U.S. Senate Senate's Senate Senate Senate Department adopted a ban on the use of plastic microants in cosmetics. It is a typical sign of the times, and it may not be a big improvement, but it is a joyful decision. 1.4 trillion plastic particles no longer enter the rivers and coastal waters of that country each year. There's another one. Chemical contamination from plastic is considered to be as severe or even more severe than micro-neoplastic or microsthetic contamination. I'm not going to discuss that chemistry here for now, maybe later. This brief lecture from the Allal's symposium reminds us that years of plastic waste and hundreds of millions of tons of mess around the earth and at sea are to be gone. The interpretation proposal is a bit of a step in the right direction. It should be agreed, of course. It reminds us that we have work to do when it comes to the use of plastics and plastic pollutions worldwide.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u59	President. I make a proposal here for a hearing about Alexander's airport as a reserve airport for the Cheflavík, Reykjavík, Akureyri and Eglil Standard Airport. The parties to the proposal are the one who stands here, as well as the other. The council of Anna Kolbrún, the Árnadóttir of the Year, Þórarinsson the son of Thorin, Gunnar the son of Sveinsson, the Maríanna of Eva Ragnarsdóttir, the Sigmundur of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and the Þorsteinn of Gestein, the Sæmundsson of Segmund. The General concluded to hide a transport and rural government minister to have a thorough investigation of the options of making Alexander's airport on the South Year Report a reserve airport for Cheflavour Airport, Brooklyn Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Eglish Airport. The secretary introduces the results of the survey no later than September 2018. A report says: A similar proposal was proposed to the 144th legislature, 527th matter, and to the 147th legislature, 23rd matter, but was not successful, and this proposal has therefore come forward. The safety of transport, whether by means of land, sea, or air, must be assured in the best way. Today, there are four main airports in Iceland, Reykjavík, Cheflavour Airport, Eglish Airport, and Akureyri Airport. These airports play an important role in national and national transport as passenger and freight transport airports and as security equipment. The distance between these options is a few, but the shortest distance between Reykjavík and Cheflavour Airport, about 30 miles [50 km]. Between Akureyri and Reykjavík, between Reykjavík and Eglish offices are some 390 miles [390 km] and about 650 miles [650 km], and between Akureyri and Eglish positions are about 265 miles [265 km]. This shows that the distance between Reykjavík and Eminence is quite some, and it was evident that when a gap in Eyjafjörður took place, the only airport used and its importance was proved to be true in the same way. Between the sheep of the river and the Akureyri, the distance is only about 12 miles [120 km], which takes more than an hour and a half to drive. Between the Sheep's Jar and the city of Reykjavík are about 295 miles [295 km], which is more than 3 hours of driving. The city of the capital area and the Southnesia live in the vicinity of such active volcano areas as Blue Mountains and Krysuvik. The land is rising in Cyrsuvik, and earthquakes are occurring in the regions that still call for speculation about the state of transportation to and from the capital area as well as from the whole country. So it may be an important safety factor for the country's people and visitors to ensure that its transport safety is even more secure. It is obvious that distances and travel distances vary significantly between Eglskot and Reykjavík on the other hand, with the Sea of Galilee and Reykjavík. There is an important airport in all the North, especially because of increasing passenger flights in the country and abroad, and the Lagis base airport is also important for the East. Then the airport in Akureyri has a key role for a medical flight. Alexander's airport is well - located where flight is good, the tide is wide, and there is little obstacle. The airport points north, which are also the dominant winds in those areas, and then the location of the field is favorable for snow. According to road records, only 0.7 days per year has been closed since 2011, but at the same time, the highway from Eglsports to Reykjavík has been closed for 2.5 days a year on the south route and 9.7 days on the north route. It will also be noted that from a sheep's home to Reykjavík and to Akureyri, there is more than one way to go, so there is a chance if highway 1 closes. It is clear, therefore, that the location of the field is well considered to be a move on land. Transporters feel alone that building Alexander's airport as a reserve airport could be a significant advantage for Reykjavík and Keflavík. It is obvious then that such an airport will serve Akureyri and Egeils well as reserve airports and will ensure and trust in the important activities being run in connection with tourism and flights in general. Thus, in view of this, a minister is directed to engage in necessary preparatory work and research in order to implement these ideas and is proposed to have a minister investigate the benefits of making Alexander's airport on the south end of the river to a reserve airport for Cheflavour Airport, Reykjavíkur Airport, Akureyri Airport, and Egalgell Airport. The secretary presented the results of this investigation to the General no later than September 2018. I then suggest that after this discussion, the proposal for environmental and transport committees will be implemented.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u60	Hv. President. As a member of the Parliament's decree pointed out, increasing the number of reserve airports will be very useful. It will take special care of safety and will also strengthen the other two existing airports, Egress and Akureyri. Some years ago, it was claimed that traffic through the country's airports was joined, the number of passengers was reduced. But that is not the case today, on the contrary, their number has increased. The motion rhymes well with the Middle Party's policy, and I embrace it. We want more portals into the country. We want more possible openings into the country. So I'd like to ask my colleague if he agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle's daughter for this answer. Of course we agree. This is in my mind to conserve the country's safety net for airports and to increase transport. And as the senator entered the land, there is a clear entrance to what the future should bear. There have been some discussions and ideas of landing here in Egls, a few years ago, to direct foreign travelers there. However, this did not result from a number of cases, such as a welcome to local tourists and also because of fuel costs. Perhaps there is something that needs to be directed to those involved in the cost of fuel, and it will be a pleasure to discuss it. Then comes a name for a company like Istavia. Yes, I agree with the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u62	Hv. President. Thank you so much for that answer. There's what I was fishing for, beyond whether we didn't agree, i.e. The one with the fuel charge. Last Friday's Super Break Mission plane was cleared out of Akureyri Airport. She was turned to the pilot's request, from my sources, and then landed at Kefavik. I wondered if there's a fuel cost in there, where the plane can fill the tank in the southwest corner. But I see there is another discussion with the equation of fuel costs. Then the plane could have landed at Alexander's airport, if I had been closed for some reason. Thank you so much for the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u63	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator. That's where the fuel business was inserted. Of course, they are a large part of the cost of flying within the country. There's a debate that's been raised at the council, if it wasn't discussed yesterday, and has to be continued. The future must be to increase and improve domestic flights in such a way that people take advantage of it and can afford to travel within the country. There's a discussion that we need to take and that we need to land in. I'm not gonna have this any further and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u64	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138/2011, about a number of local agents. The movers are Jón Gunnarsson, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Hjaltason Gautiê, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Óli Björn Kárason, Páll Magnússon, Vilmur Árnason, Willum Þór Ingi and Kristinsson. These changes turn to verses 1 and 2. 1 1. The law. 1st par. So the bill is 1st. 1 1. The word of the law goes like this: The number of delegates on the odd number will be on the unit. The number of members of the county board shall be set up as agreed. Count 9. Let the nobles never be less than five. Since there are fewer than 2,000 inhabitants of rural society, let no more than seven nobles do. b. The words "pearrior " and" higher " in the 2nd issue. ... willrunout.How's that? It is then recommended that these laws be obtained immediately. A report says: Civil society is the government, thereby becoming part of the European Commission's manual, according to Article 2. The constitution. Thus, rural communities are part of the administrative system and are to follow general rules regarding government activity and administrative procedures. According to 1st mg. 78th par. The Constitution shall govern its own affairs according to law. This expression that they control their own affairs points to the self - control of their communities. A country's self-control includes some. that the people of rural society have a democratic right to vote for the government of the community in general elections. The call is for a number of district leaders in 1st. 1 1. Substitute government law. Thus, an extenuating law affects the number of local representatives. It is important to protect the exercise rights of the rural community and to ensure that the democratic thinking behind the country's regime and the rules of elections for the government, that local officials represent the local community, actively reflects the will of its inhabitants. Ideographical base 1. 78th par. The Constitution is to ensure the right of local citizens to control certain matters without interference from the State. Therefore, the carriers believe that rural communities themselves can control a number of local nobles. The following should be kept in mind, as indicated in comments at 2 mgr. 1 1. in the paper of the bill, which became current local government law. It says, by permission of the president: However, it is also important to remember that the governance that the bill assumes that the value of rural activities is not expected to be very large government, based on the fact that the government itself makes all major decisions on the management and administration of the Community and is responsible. If this bill becomes legalized by the law, local governments will be made up of a number of local nobles in their approvals within the bounds that the officers will never be fewer than five and no more than seven, with less than 2,000 of the population of rural society. The proposed changes to 2 mg. 1 1. The law is explained by the fact that if the bill becomes a law, society will never be obliged to increase the number of local representatives, although the population changes. Then there is the law of law, as it was 2.mg. 78th par. The constitution. Companies and space to use them are key factors in considering what rural areas can take care of themselves, i.e. on your own initiative, such as. To determine the number of nobles in the county government. It should be noted that this bill is not intended to influence whether societies will ever multiply representatives for future government elections or not. The economic impact of the bill's decision on the state funds is not a single factor. This is a very important case, a case I did as a platoon minister two attempts to enter the council and be delivered in the past year. That was, in effect, for opposition especially in one group, even both of them, in the then government that it failed to achieve in the spring council. The Crones opposed the application of the matter to the council for a long time. This is of interest in the fact that this class has been trying to mark itself as a class of freedoms, and it is in full harmony with that presentation. In the end of this matter, I sought the presence of all groups in this matter. We have Shippingers, as well as the independents of the U.S. Department of Refugees, the Central Party, and the Gang of the People. Together, these groups make up a greater portion here at the council, and if there is a case with other members of these classes, there is no objection to taking this matter into consideration and ending it. Actually, I don't think it's gonna take long. This case has been discussed in the past. In fact, there are very few people who have to comment on that. It's so obvious. I don't know that the local community has any opposition to this change. Rather, it's much rather positive in this matter in general. Interestingly, no senator of the left green, of the United States, of Pirata, or of the Revolution could think of being on this case, in fact, being the only source of power to the countryside, to the people of our own. There's a lot of transparency in how many members of the unit are in that government. It must be unnatural for the Generals to agree on this unless, in that case, just to make sure that at least A minimum of the number that would not allow a relatively small group to manage a rural society, however, is sure to ensure that it is the minimum possible option for all views to be maintained. I think it's really important. This, of course, comes with the experience we see. The development must take place that we need to make local government officials more powerful than they are today. That even happens. by reducing the number of rural governments but at the same time may pay a higher salary for these jobs. This accords with the fact that there is good reason to examine further uniting communities across the country. If I remember correctly, it's 72 today, it's decreased considerably, but it can be better if it works. The situation is now that, after the last election in 2014, some 53% of local government officials were reinvented, if I remember correctly. It's going to go for these elections right now that it's going to be up to 60%. We have experienced this at the General Assembly, which has been here for some time, how the great and radical renewal has taken place during the council. In fact, I believe it was a matter of the council, which concludes that although it is always good to get new people to work and get fresh and good ideas in, it is of course important that the experience created should go to the courtyards when people disappear. It is obvious that when half of the local government officials went off course in the last district election, they also disappeared from a lot of experience. When 60% then go away now, it's heading for it in the coming election, we'll see that there's something wrong in the system. A further consideration of the research that has been carried out in this regard reveals that women are far less likely to last. In other words, it is very common for women to last only one terms in rural affairs across the country. It's pathetic. It doesn't make sense. It tells us that the arrangement there is a significant reduction in women's ability to participate in politics at the level of government. Many community officials throughout the country say that the most expensive hockey they are participating in is being part of their country government. It is obvious that a small population cannot pay much attention to these important jobs. So there is further reason to look for the self - control of rural society given the number of local representatives. Because fewer local officials make it possible to pay them to do their jobs better, they are likely to be able to share in these important jobs more fully. To me, I'm sure that's a problem. To me, it was an intervention in the independence of the rural communities when the laws were passed here, or the change that was made in 2012, including the year 2012. so that for spring mayor elections, the number of city-made religions will have to be greatly increased. On this point, a department of political views is made up of the city councilman. The rest of the city's population agreed to increase the number of its citizens while the lesser part opposed it. In surveys conducted, an overwhelming majority of the city's population are opposed to increasing the number of city religions. I believe it is right for political agents, e.g. in the capital for the coming election, it is responsible for its voters for the growth in these jobs because, in the end, it is the tax pay of the citizens that will be used to pay for their increased expenses. I hope, and I know that my clients will agree with me, that this case will be resolved quickly through the committee. It is not a subject to spend a long time in judicial work because the matter has already been mentioned, the reviews have been provided, and they were generally positive. The talk is generally positive to this matter. In order for this to affect the coming district election, it is necessary for the council to do a good job and to complete this matter. I think it's also good for the discussion to come at least. for a discussion here and for a vote at the council. A respectable president. Certainly, I look forward to that payment and suggest that the case be referred now to the Council's Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u65	A respectable president. There is a certain déjàà vu involved in standing here discussing these matters. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. We had a few conversations about this last year. I have to say, I was a little surprised when I saw this bill on the program with very short rural elections, and I couldn't understand a word at all. A senator's approach would have to be immediate, quick through a committee, and not to stay on the council treatment, said so. Senator. In fact, the report says that the bill is not intended to influence the development of a group of representatives for future government elections or not. I'd like to ask you what. A senator as to the urgency of the situation and whether he is not familiar with the extensive consultation of the rural communities a few years ago, providing the arrangement now for a number of local executives and whether they feel that it is highly organized that so soon after such extensive consultations, a bill should be passed through the council that will completely disqualify them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u66	A respectable president. By the development of the National Ministry of State last year, of course, there was a consultation, including, of course, between us. A Union of Icelandic rural society. The case was treated for Congress. There were reviews. from them and from Reykjavíkurburg. It was taken if I recall a proper meeting with two agents, a representative of the European Union and a representative of the city of Reykjavík. As I said earlier, it may have been our chief cooperation in the government at that time, a restoration and a bright future that prevented the case from getting paid in the spring council. There's an interest in this matter. It's a controversial decision. She was, in her time, very controversial. I believe, as the bill says, that it is not intended to set lines in other respects on this minimum and climax that can be used for 2,000 people, but I believe that it is reasonable that the rural governments themselves have the responsibility to make this decision. They've got time for the election to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u67	A respectable president. I was sitting down. Environmental and transport committees during the last term. True, the case had already been sent out for reviews, but the case was not arranged on the committee, so it was being discussed. Based on all the reports, it is obvious that they need time to look into them, and they are new members of the committee. We are once talking about democracy that is not supposed to be somehow shaken out of the sleeve. Hv. In fact, a senator answered no less question. He spoke of the self-importantness of their societies as whether they were doing it. They were also appointed to participate in their consultation with the State on this grand revision, carried out some years ago. They chose to do so, and they agreed with the results of that work. It was worked in conjunction with government and local government. I have to say, I don't think it's a very careful method to come here and accept a basic change in it. [[The president calls.]] Why not try harder, even taking the matter into a committee now, but take a stand on it in the fall?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u68	A respectable president. Here, the fundamental difference between me and members of Congress in some other categories is reflected in where this authority should exist. I think it might be normal for them to do what they want. Councilmen who want to put stones in the way of bringing this power back to the countryside and, in fact, implementing it in such a way that it is as good as entirely in the power of their fellow members to make those decisions, the people themselves - these members of the Parliament are representatives of the great majority of the population of the country's population, and they say that there is nothing they can do about it. It was controversial. This point was disputed in its time. It's still political. The independent viewpoint has not changed. This case was prevented last year's release. The Freedom Party of the Archipelago and Piranus do not support this obvious matter of freedom where the power is moved to the countryside, to the people. [[The president calls.]] I'm surprised. [[The president calls.]] I suggest the council shakes off the dirty words in these matters and ends this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u69	Mr. President. It is a fine price to pay to increase the freedom of the rural society, and I don't think anyone in Porita Congress at any point would be its opponent. But I find this bill to be painting up as some sort of freedom issue that literally limits the maximum number of rural rulers in smaller rural areas to seven, which I think are going a little against their freedom of choice. In addition, it is being suggested that they will be at least five who offer the democratic palace that 20% votes in elections are needed in order for someone to be elected democratically. I wouldn't call it any particular democracy love. I'm asking why. A senator: How on earth is this to be called some kind of freedom? Would it not be a closer and considerably better approach to increase the peak response to the rural areas just so that they could afford to pay their local government back a better salary? Would it not be designed to provide a better basis for independence and the self - determination of the local community?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u70	A respectable president. Hv. Councilman Pirata suggests that the rural communities will be given increased tax returns, i.e. They can handle the exposure much higher than it is today. We just don't agree on that. We believe that today's sources are in full force, and rural areas can decrease their answer. In fact, this is rather the development of the country's most successful communities - this is not relevant to the city of Reykjavík, where Piratars are involved in rural management and support more parts, than the neighbors where independent members of the community have long been in control, especially, have been able to reduce their expenses in general. That is a fundamental difference in our views. Of course it's a clear matter of freedom. I don't give much to it when you're talking about 20% of the voters in a community of 2,000 to come in to you if there's only five agents. I don't think it's like that, but maybe the mathematician needs to explain it better for us, so it's just gonna come out. [[The president calls.]] But this is an eye - eyed experience. [[The president calls.]] It's a big matter of freedom. They're bringing the power to the people. It is fundamental to me that local officials are responsible for a political decision like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u71	Mr. President. Now it may be appropriate to point out that the government was in the hands of the lndependence Department of Smokenestown, where it is a very specific law to allow higher peak exposure because of their poor financial resources. There is also the fact that in view of what is happening. A senator said that local authorities should not be replaced by the independent Party right now in replacing their entire population in Reykjavík City for the next election. We're good. Now it's been answered. A senator did not ask me one question about how this wasn't a democracies, how was it not designed to reduce people's chances of getting their platoon official, even though they were in 40,000 people, with five members of the county government, according to this bill that would be possible, perhaps not likely, but completely possible. Wouldn't it be the matter to increase the number of rural Christians so that they would have more democracies? And finally I ask, if it's such a good bill, why is the present transport and local government secretary unable to provide it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u72	A respectable president. Hv. A senator must apply this to the highest. Minister, why he hasn't followed up on that bill. I just haven't asked him that. Hv. To compare with the sad history of London's business and the government of Reykjavík, a member of the body has had to live in for some years now. Of course, evenly, a respectable president is different, especially in view of falling into a very large workplace and income supply in one night in a very short time. It's working. It will be effective if avalanches fall and action is needed, but this does not apply to Reykjavík. Much more stability has been involved, in fact, less population growth since human efforts have not been sufficiently successful. The principle is this: If the Pirantics have an idea of adding to the freedom principle in the bill, I expect they'll make a change in it where they'll open it as a full community self-control of this number, but not put a stone in the way of making at least a living. this step through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u73	Mr. President. A number of interesting points were presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Senator. He reviewed the history of the matter and found it interesting to learn that a restoration is a great deal of interest to him in this matter. It is absolutely true of the former minister, the current senator, that at the time, at the same time, a restoration against this case, including the U.S. because it was too late. I'd like to think back to what happened. A senator's comment on this when he was asked if there was any opposition to the matter. With President's permission, he says: Of course, this is a government matter, and it has been granted to all members of the council. There may be a warning somewhere in it, I don't have any information about it. This was what the senator said after attending a meeting with signed documents that were given very serious warnings, so he was simply wrong at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u74	A respectable president. That may be, and I'd like to ask for some credit if I haven't made a big difference between myself and a government team at this time. There must have been some reasons to maintain a good spirit. All right. It was not the reasoning I was given at that time by my colleagues that the matter was too late. It was waiting if I recall just for four weeks or something inside a council tournament after it was taken out of the government. Four weeks. It's very special when it comes to a case that goes through a government without comments. I'm sure that's what I've been quoting. It made no comment unless it is reported that there may be warnings in some members of the council. Yeah, well, I'm concerned with being in my mind these days, that's because of the cases the Independence Party has taken the initiative to move here at the council like a law to eliminate a private store of alcohol, a law on human names, etc. [[The president calls.]] The other day, I told the council members that the road away from home was the way home. I'd love to get them back in the house. It's an empty misunderstanding. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u75	I'm impressed. A senator more humorous, but I don't have the sense of humor for this than he does. I don't think anyone's coming home. Today, there are a number of people who have never been able to talk about a home, including the one standing here, so he has trouble getting home to the arms of Jón Gunnarsson. Of course, it is strange for Latin to be wrong when trying to win trust and to promote cooperation. I think it would be quite the opposite with the wrong thing to do when it was completely clear, and the senator, then minister, knew completely that this would not go through in this way, but he will still arise and assert that there is no opposition to the matter. As to whether the case was too late to come forward, one of the proposals to the minister of his time and he counted all the signs of difficulty, that in view of the imminent elections, we would take the case back up, bearing in mind that it could possibly be of value to elections when they got next. There was no question about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u76	A respectable president. I can see why. A senator is interested in how this was arranged last year, in such hairs back and forth, but, of course, an explanation given to me that revered would offer itself in the city, thinking that he would have a better chance to bring in representatives if they were increased. So, of course, we can go a long way to increase the number of local government leaders or representatives here at the General Assembly so that all the least groups that can have an influence and come to their people in the discussion can be reached. But somewhere there will be a line. The main thing in my mind is this: The bill has to be over right now because it affects local government elections here in the city, the mayor's election. It is very important not to increase. These issues have already been handled. It's been years. There were conflicting opinions about it back then. It was turned from the process of increasing the number of representatives. I think we should step in and take this power, this court of decision, to the city, the elected councilman, so they can't keep track of the law at the Council when it comes to this controversy that will now be trying in elections. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u77	The president wants to make an issue about the importance of the public speaking class. It is fairly common for a person to pass 20 seconds, even if the hour is one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u78	A respectable president. Some things. Hv. A senator should know the financial policy of his own government, where the level of government is much better than in the last financial policy. This is mainly because of the better interests of Reykjavíkurburg. Just to be clear, it's going very well. After cooperating among rural governments at the state level, there is a conclusion followed by law. If there is a problem, there would be an opportunity to change the situation from the local government, which would seem obvious to me. Piranha, for example. suggested to lower certain barriers in local democracy so that rural governments can allow citizens to come to their decision-making. From then on, the cost was mentioned. Reykjavíkurburg has won the whole thing since the expense of the city council is not raised by the disappearance of deputy citizens who are otherwise on pay. It has all been planned so that there is no extra cost. So I don't see that the cost is holding anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u79	A respectable president. The cost involved is very controversial. More of the money in Reykjavík has produced some calculations. It is their speciality to provide calculations, which in many cases are very misleading. How interesting it is to hear a representative of Pirata commends the city of Reykjavík! I think people should dive a little more into that lawsuit and see what is behind it. It is important that everything on the table is at the end of the election. The situation has recently been more serious than in many other rural areas. The key point is, a respectable president, that men can do a variety of exercises to justify the fact that this increase is now and that the matter can be taken up later, etc. It is the opinion that these classes feel that they have a better way of getting representatives in the city's administration if the representatives are increasing. That's what this is all about. Otherwise, these groups would not put a stone in the path of bringing this freedom to the inhabitants, to their elected representatives, and thus they themselves are responsible for this political responsibility. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They do not trust themselves to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u80	The president would like to again insist that the senators respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u81	A respectable president. So let's take this discussion: If it's true that we're fighting in this so that others can reach the democracy, is it not the proposal here to try to keep them out? In what way is that a proposal for freedom? How the fuck can that be a freedom proposal? - I'm sorry about your language. In addition to this, there is another suggestion for the council to change the election to the local government, i.e. to let 16 - year - old people in. That proposal was made much earlier, on the committee. If you work on this bill fast, don't you think it's just as fast as possible to win the other bill? I'd like to point out and repeat what I said earlier on the government financial policy. It explains the quality and quality of the economy of the rural society that have improved recently. According to financial committees, the city's budget is making progress there. The reason for financial improvement is that the government's financial policy is better than that of last time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u82	A respectable president. I'm not going to spend long time discussing the finances of Reykjavík and the post of Reykjavík. I think it's best if it happens in another field. It is clear that the Pirata representatives believe that these are matters in order and will be passed on in the spring election by the voters in Reykjavík, how happy they are in the financial administration of Reykjavíkurburg and how it has developed in recent years. Does it, in effect, make it harder for them to come in with representatives? Yes, it does. If the government reduces its size, it can become more difficult. But it's not suggested in this bill. It is just being suggested that elected agents, in Reykjavíkurburg in this case, have this decision, and indeed, that local officials, elected representatives throughout the country for future district elections, will be able to make these decisions. For this reason, there is strong evidence that these decisions will be made at home but that there will be no chess under the cover of a law that the General decided on these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u83	A respectable president. There are few things that tell me as clearly how specific this matter is as to the great debate presented here, both in reply and in speech by force. A merchant, Jón Gunnarsson's son, from the financial position of a city fund as well as its share. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson drew in with his own initiative to a number of city councilmen, to discuss individual groups there, and I don't know what and what. This is simply a case presented here, directed toward one rural society in the country. True, it affects all of them, the discussion shows it, and we are not alone. We had this conversation last year. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson was the chief. Minister of local government and put it forward as a administrative bill as he himself quoted earlier. Hv. A senator himself pointed out in his own words that at the council there was no need for much superiority on the subject of work, that would have been done last year, during the last assembly, that would have been so. The Environment and Transport Committee, and they should be able to pass through a committee quickly, we wouldn't have to stay on the council treatment, and I'd like to review the proposal from last year and compare it with the proposal now. The same suggestion, says why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. Last year's proposal sounded like this, with President's permission: - Uh-huh. - The following changes will occur in 1 mg. 1 1. The law: a. Figure 4. put it this way: Since the population is 50,000 or more, the major population is 15◯27. b. Count 5. He'll be gone. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ This is all a proposal from last year, a respectable president, and it doesn't take much understanding to see that this is a completely different proposal than the one presented here today, by permission of the president: - Uh-huh. - The following changes will occur in Article 11. The law: a. 1.mg. phrases like: In the unit management board, the number of agents should be on point. The number of members of the county board shall be set up as agreed. Count 9. Let the nobles never be less than five. Since there are fewer than 2,000 inhabitants of rural society, let no more than seven nobles do. b. The words "pearrior " and" higher " in speech. 2 mg. ... willrunout.How's that? It's true that you're right next to what you're talking about. Transporter to Article 2. the first and second bill are the same; this law will already come into force. But I suppose we will. A senator would agree that there may not be enough resemblance to the review of the bill in the previous year. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Nowhere in the bill since last year was it mentioned that the nobles were not fewer than five; no mention was made of covering a roof from the State, a political roof, on the democratic right of a community with under 2,000 citizens that they could not have more nobles than seven. I hope so. A manager would correct me if I was wrong, but, of course, no one has sent me. Environmental and Transport Committees on this. However, many have sent reviews to determine whether to change it, so that rural areas with more than 50,000 inhabitants can be found between 15 and 27 mains. We are here at the beginning of this bill's content, and it's clear that it needs to go to the regular work and treatment here like all other primes and perhaps even more because this is all about the democracy that we all are interested in. This bill needs careful action and review, but no reviews of a bill that sounds completely different and that's completely different. A respectable president. I made it clear that this bill was directed against one community. It is clear, but now it is stated that such a conclusion is not as evident. This was done last year, which specifically referred to 50,000 people. Now it may well be that there are many of us in here, I don't know, not to speak on behalf of other generals, that the subject of this bill is fine, it may be all right for the rural communities to decide for themselves, that the government should not offer an offer of how many agents should be on every thousand people in rural areas. I don't know, but it's the kind of work we're going to have to do. It's not something we shook out of the country's background for government elections. What we do know, a respected president, is that a few years ago a large work took place on these matters, an overall review of local government laws. It was 2011, don't I remember correctly, a respectable president? At that time, the members of the Department of Ministers, the representatives of the European Union, were appointed a team if I recall correctly, especially on how many delegates should be in the country government compared to a population of people. The work force concluded, and the matter was settled. A table was set up - X many residents, X many agents, the next range 10,000 or 11,000 if I remember correctly, they increase, etc. It was a professional job. If we feel that the result of that work is wrong, let us not unplug it by throwing in a proposal just before the election and accepting it. Let's just go back to this professional job. We'll talk to all our communities. Is it absolutely certain that all rural areas under 2,000 people are content not to have more than seven members of a rural government? Why does it want to be? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is not that the communities that have 1,537 inhabitants have nine representatives? Why does he not respect their community's self - determination right to do so? Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy asked me why. A traveler about it, but there wasn't much to answer. We can put it here, a respectable president, in some conventional shot for democracy and a lack of it and the members of these classes are like this or gay. We can't go on with that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] There are just some traditional political gladiators. I would really like to know why. Jón Gunnarsson and other importers feel that it is wise to remove this vast and professional work between administrative points, government and rural unions and not just the Union of Icelandic rural society, but individual communities. Why are we now going to say that there is nothing to do with this work because we've changed our mind and we're not going to do it the way we get to the other conclusion, but we're just going to do it like this before the election? I don't know why. A messenger knows that the preparation of a volunteer for the county election is under way. Isn't there a meeting at Valhalla tonight? Do representatives there are about to take their seats on list that the list is not going to increase the number of mayor religions? Don't we need reviews from those who sit on a list in the belief that 23 agents are being selected and then we'll change the next law so that only 15 might be selected? I don't know. I know, however, that when it comes to changing a professional agreement, we should go to the ground with caution. It is not supposed to be part of a sectal bitch. The relationship between different administrative points is fragile. We who are able to establish the administrative level should be very careful. When it has been carefully discussed at the moment, we should be more careful and not cut out of a relationship that I claim is simply out of some political interest but is not about respect for the level of government. All right, I'm the spokesman for putting forth all our concerns. It's just fine to get this case, it's the opinion of this bill's carriers, and it's only nice to have it, but I'm not a spokesman for the idea that when it comes to the work of the Generals. I am a spokesman for the quality of our work, so I trust that in time we will. The Environment and Transport Committee will consider this matter as standard treatment is initiated, to obtain the comments of rural society. The list exists, it was sent out last year. Then it's about who. The committee of this issue, such as the other cases of carefulness, would like to be known by the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u84	A respectable president. I took a word out of it. A senator in the air who said that the bill was being directed directly to one group member. I'm new in this politics, and I can't see it. The law is thus encouraged by the number of local representatives to be compared with the number of people, i.e. very exactly. 7 breakdown1 below 10,000, 111⁄215 for rural communities below 50,000, 15◯23 for 100,000 and below, followed by 2,23/431 for rural communities, more than 100,000 inhabitants. I think it's an extremely capricious thing. I'm not going to get involved in a fight about the expected bad business of Reykjavíkurburg or Smokeytown. I'm a carrier on this bill. I believe our rural communities are generally in charge of this itself. If some community wants 11 agents or 15 or whatever they are, they just decide for themselves. I can't see any evidence that the government is meddling with local decisions. Why can't they decide this for themselves? [[Up front.]] Is this a problem? They decide for themselves. Do rural society want us to decide this for them? I don't think so at all. It's best for them to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u85	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says that he cut down on the fact that I mentioned that the bill was directed to one group member. I hope that he too learned that I had before in the talk of a messenger I went with, and I don't have time to repeat that answer. Hv. A driver was not talking about many other rural areas than Reykjavík. He wasn't talking about Susgavík, or Sigludjöndur, or what the fine rural communities are called. Hv. A circuit overseer specifically pointed out that the case had been submitted earlier. Therefore, it would not be as difficult to do now. I'm counting on it. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason knows that language as well as he knows it. paritaprevir This is Jón Gunnarsson. It clearly shows that not many societies are being spoken of, the limit is simply high. That explains my words. Then I made it clear that this table was for the rest of the day. A senator read up here and was glad to get it exactly, there would be a lot of X agents on a lot of people. But because. A senator says that he does not understand why the government is meddling with the local community decisions in terms of the number of local governments, so I have to say that I am amazed that he is a co-ordinated member of this bill. Here, the state power is directly divided by a group member's decision on a number of local government agents. It applies only to rural society, with fewer than 2,000 inhabitants at their peak, but I trust it to be respectful. A senator for the decision of a community is not limited to whether communities are under or over 2,000 inhabitants. Why does that have to do with that? A senator of state's rights divided himself from community decisions to 2,000 people and not over?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u86	A respectable president. Yes, I support this bill and I continue to do it. In terms of the minimum, this bottom, of course, there is a fence for the population, that it's not been decided to have a very large number of local representatives in very small rural areas. I think that's normal. Regarding the fact that even increasing the number of rural ideals expressed in the previous Senate case, it would be advisable to increase the response rate to represent more, I don't think that it is the general opinion of the population and the general public to increase the number of representatives far beyond what we're talking about here, certainly not. We in our people feel that public money should be well treated, and I'm opposed because it may be in very small rural areas, as we may know in the South, that the delegates could be even more than seven when the population may be 500 or 300. I think there may be some 1102% of the residents in the countryside.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u87	A respectable president. I have to admit, I have a bad feeling. A senator contradicts himself. No matter how much we generally feel about the treatment of public funds, it is difficult to say that if we say to a group under 2,000 people: you must have no more than seven agents, the government has the authority to interfere with community decisions. Hv. A senator is a co-sponsor who is on this bill, and this motion, in contrast to the law now, is not employed in any agreement with the rural communities themselves. This would be the case with the General's own decision-making business. Speaking of community self - determination rights, the work that took place some years ago was exemplary. Because they sat down, listened to one another's viewpoint, organized groups, and were not forced into anything by anyone. They worked together to make a decision. However, this is where local societies are being forced, making a suggestion. At the same time, a senator speaks of the State's right not to interfere with his community's self - determination rights. A respectable president must forgive, but I can't get this to come together. There is no room for the self - determination rights of a community and, at the same time, the right to self - determination. For the treatment of public funds, there is a very different debate. That was the result. The city council in Reykjavík, if we take it as an example, since that is now what is under it, is 15 but the members of the city of Reykjavík are 22. Is that a natural treatment for public money? Why don't we reduce the number of council members to 15 or should we increase the number of representatives in Reykjavík? Is it just that it doesn't matter what the population of Reykjavík is growing, nor does it ever have to increase the number of city citizens? Or should we just listen to what our communities said at work and apply it rather than try to squeeze it into them without consulting?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u88	Hv. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion much. However, I believe that it is necessary to assume that when the laws made here suggest a change to the council at the time, it was not undisputed and not agreed. I think all members of the Independence Party, including myself, who were involved in the votes paid a vote against this arrangement, even though we supported the whole bill. This was part of a very large bill for the change in rural government laws agreed on. However, comments were made on the exact factor. The change, as she faced us, affected only in Reykjavík, i.e. The change in the law at that time, 2011, only made it necessary to place the law on the shoulders of the city of Reykjavík to increase the number of its citizens from 15 to a minimum of 23. We objected to the argument that it was right for the city of Reykjavík to make that decision for itself. That the council was not driving the city to increase the number of city Christians. Similar views have been expressed in the city of Reykjavík, so it is not entirely true that the current legal decision has always been in one of the perfect agreements of all parties. It's been controversial, I just wanted to keep it in place during this discussion. Hence, it does not have to be surprising. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and other members of various categories now make this suggestion. It does not include the obligation of the city council of Reykjavík or other rural governments to reduce the number of the city's citizens or of the community. It simply means that the mayor or the town council makes such decisions for themselves, and the council does nothing to do with anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Which the Ármannsson of the Aarver, for the answer, or which was largely the tip. When I spoke of terms and agreements, I was primarily referring to the opposite of these laws, which are the rural communities. They had a close discussion, and the conclusion was an overall review. You're absolutely right. The senator that after that, not all members of the council here voted with all the branches of that bill. The question is also true. A senator at that time were the changes and the stacks, so it was only about one rural society. But that's not the case today, is it? Are there not rural areas that have shifted and are now under these laws to increase the number of representatives? Mosfellstown, if I remember correctly, park town, which has grown by this table, if I remember correctly. Hv. A senator would correct me if he chose to come up here to another answer. This accord and this agreement have led to an overall re-examination of local government laws. A number of local representatives are one of those, but that is an important factor. These are democratic elected representatives of the countryside. I don't think it's professional business to come here a few months before election, and I'm going to cut this off from the overall agreement. Then let's go back to reexamination of local government cults. If we want to, if we feel that our rural communities have now changed their minds, because that's what the tourists of this bill are giving themselves, i.e. that they do not wish to have the law that was settled, do we not need extensive consultations in order to get that view, but not just to give it to us here in a speech chair?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u90	V.E.G. President. It may now be a great deal of effort to say that an overall review of the local government laws is needed to deal with this situation. This does not include the fact that there are any conclusions on the table. It simply says: Every rural government, since this is a practical matter, can make the decision to go into the growing that is expected. [[Up front.]] At any rate, this is a significant space from what is now, since it is much closer than the bill contains. In either case, Reykjavík, Gardentown, Mosfellstown, or any community with this bill, the conclusion is not to be determined. It's just saying, you can decide for yourselves whether you want to grow by two councilmans, two local councilmans, or six local agents or eight or whatever you want to do, you can make that decision yourself. But the conclusion is not stated. I don't think there's any reason to make too much drama out of it. If the mayor of Reykjavík had the complete opportunity to make his own decision on these issues, I expect that more part there would come to the same conclusion as he has already made on the current law, i.e. growing up to 23. In that respect, this would not really change much. I don't know about other communities that may have shifted, whether they'd use the authority to increase by two local agents or not, because I don't feel that this has anything to do with me as a member of Congress. I just think that the government before the voters, their clients, should have both the choice and the pain, so to speak, by making decisions like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u91	A respectable president. Hv. A senator delivered a fine answer. I still want in the short time that I have to go to the basics of the case. Why were they talking about a lot of local government agents in an overall re-examination of the County Government Act? Now I'm not going to speak for everyone, not at all. Those views have certainly been heard, and why. A senator certainly knows better than I do because he participated in that work through the General Assembly, that it is not necessarily reasonable that a number of local representatives will become voters, as some have tried to do. Hv. A senator must know that some rural societies have specifically spoken about the wisdom of a tablet that says that a certain number of residents are behind each representative. That it is not always that the person with the pain has the option, like the dog. A senator expressed it. There are some views that lived then. I don't mean to speak for all my societies, but let's not pretend it's not like that. Hv. A senator came here to see that they can determine the basis to a large extent themselves, that these matters were covered by a head covering. The locals may now want to have the choice and pain, and they may want to decide for themselves, but we cannot give it to them in this pont. We need to discuss with our rural communities whether they changed their minds on these less than seven years, six and a half, which have passed since an agreement was reached for a complete review, including the representative tables.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u92	President. I am, in effect, forced to give a talk on this subject. It's kind of strange how it's going to show up. I don't have to review what was presented in the speech of two. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér, however, I fully agree with him that this is a suggestion for a broad system of consultation to be thrown out of the window, and things are being done at a rather rapid pace just before elections, apparently, to direct a particular change towards the city of Reykjavík. That's what I'm talking about. The minister of the case, Jón Gunnarsson, appeared in his background talk, something that is even willing to do on the basis of the majority authority, which is involved in bringing more of the matter into place during the council, i.e. Instead of conversation, instead of having normal relations, both in the council and in the rural and rural communities that are involved, such as so many times before in the Independence Party, trying to drive things through with violence. All right. It's still a matter that's coming into our table. Then there is the matter of perturbingly discussing it. Then perhaps the first questions are: Is this done to increase or discourage democratic participation? Now it is so that by the law of the election to the county government, a seat will be arranged according to the d'Hondt rule, and that's just the best case. But according to the bill, the nobles will never be less than five, so fine, to have some minimum value. Then perhaps it is all right to ask how the minimum is selected. It would seem that this would mean a minimum of 20% votes behind the first place. But from the way d'Hondt rule actually works, one place needs considerably less than 20% to. As a result, this may be the case to support and strengthen the position of the number of categories that are largely at the top of which the d'Hondt Rule is known to contribute to large categories at the expense of smaller categories. Of course, the group that has been the largest in most parts of the countryside may look forward to such conclusions. However, it is said that there are no more than seven people in the rural areas, with 2,000 or fewer inhabitants. I'm more of a handman on the side of the wheel. transport of the bill. I cannot quickly imagine why this law is stated, why it is stated, because there are not many societies that are so small today. Although there are some, there are some, but why should the decision - making rights of the rural community be limited? And then, of course, I go in comparing myself with other countries. Here's a nice table that appeared on the bill for a song submitted to Council 138, a 15th case, that put together a table on the average number of local government members. It shows that Iceland has an average of 6.6 platoon officials. True, something has changed, an increase has occurred in Gardút, from what I understand, and this is about to rise a little because of a change in expectations now. But there are generally 28.2 rural government officials in Finland. In Denmark, the average number is 25.7 and in Norway is 30. But no one does better than Sweden in the North countries, which usually has 44 rural officials. Why is this important? Yes, because if it is reasonable to assume that the public attendance is important, the presence of elected agents must be important, the availability of people's ability to speak to their representatives, and the first to get their own chosen representatives in the local government. It must matter. Because if the target is 20% to get its first human being, it's only natural that one fifth of the population in a designated rural society would simply not get any government. What comparison is there between individual rural society and the northern countries? Reykjavík has his 15th. There is an evidence to increase the number of them as a result of a very broad consultation process, which some city officials, perhaps mainly of the Independence Party, have something to consider. But here are 119,000 inhabitants and 15 platoon officials today. If we compare it to Stavanger in Norway, which has 122,000 inhabitants, about the same size, there are 67 platoon officials. It's just a rather big difference. There are even more rural governments than Iceland's members. I like it a little bit. Then we could take less community, my hometown, the Western Islands, with 4,000 inhabitants and seven platoon officials. Compare this with the town of Thailand in Norway, where the population of the population is 480, which is ten times fewer than in the Western Islands. It's got 11 platoon leaders. And we can compare this with Hafnarfjörður, which has over 25,000 inhabitants. There are seven platoon leaders. Compare Utsira, also in Norway, with 215 inhabitants, there are 15 platoon officials. It's an international tradition to have relatively few agents - most of them from the Independence Party, I don't know if it's coincidence or not - and as little democraticly as possible. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson speaks of this as an expensive hockey for the local government. Perhaps it would be less expensive if only more people did all the work. Because it's a lot of work. I know a group member who works very hard in his work. And this is a full - time work, even when this is actually half a job according to the way it is paid for, or even less. Democratic participation according to the bill should be less or even negligible. In my opinion, this weighs against the self-sponsored rights of these communities. But in view of this, you have to ask yourself, " Where could I do better? ' It's not enough to criticize such a bill just -- I believe that at least the price, the cost of criticizing things is to make a better suggestion. Then we must consider the future prospects of the unit control level. We could talk about future prospects for greater freedom. I could, for example. See here that this bill could be improved considerably by dropping away this one sentence, by permission of the President: ▪ Since there are fewer than 2,000 inhabitants of rural society, let no more than seven mains! Cut it off, become considerably more liberal and better already. We could also talk about the financial resources of our rural society. As mentioned in my first talk on the subject, or contrast, there are rural areas in the country that are extremely narrowly tailored to financial matters. In part, this makes rural authorities unable to accept normal pay for their jobs, even their growing problems for their communities. It's only natural then that we try to figure out where we can do better. Many community members are in a bad position. It has improved considerably, and the city of Reykjavík may be in the front. But there is reason to believe that the government has a good conversation with the rural communities and the government's level of how we can try to cut down the huge debt collections that have taken place. In part it is due to the collapse, partly due to other factors, e.g. When basic schools were rolled over to rural communities without a lot of money following, if any, would come but too late. We might even try to set the goal here at the council to make appropriate adjustments in the law of the rural government so that their budget will improve and the price of a situation where there can be an increase in the number of local or rural ideals and will improve their pay rates so that they can be exposed to any other destination in the North countries. It's just a few thoughts about it. In the end, the General has not wanted to have the strength to withstand traumas, to control their own interests in very limited ways. From time to time, some sort of motion, usually in the name of freedom, is becoming rather harsh in the occupation of that word. The suggestions may seem to be freedom of this, freedom of the other, when you look at the report, but when you look at their actual effects, they are no more than to limit the rights of those who have to do their work well in public, to limit the right of the public self and do as well as in the rural administrations of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u93	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the speech, some fine reasoning and a lot of interesting. I'd like to state that I'm one of the partners of the bill. What I wanted to do in a talk. The senator is - and what. If so, a senator can respond. A senator said that the bill was submitted for some other purpose, or strangely it was how it would be done - whether it was. A senator could explain his point more fully. There's nothing like that in the mind of what it says here. I can totally understand the discussion about the wide range of consultations that took place. But like a dog. paritaprevir The annual Birgir of a Ármannsson, who was then serving at the General Assembly, entered the department's records of this feature in the overall review. It is not surprising that these views remain in the way shown in this bill. The purpose of the bill is primarily that, and it is my sincere opinion that the decision should be made in the hands of the communities themselves. They know best about who can be the desired number of representatives. And there's nothing in the bill that says they have to disappear from the estimated number of people before this election, first before. In his speech, a senator addressed it. About 2,000 people, as indicated by the proposal, are in full harmony with the figures already in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u94	Mr. President. I didn't mean to be part of the proposal's party with any strange motives. I understand that the ideas that make this possible are in part for a good price. Of course, it is something that most of us should agree on, increasing the freedom of our communities. Actually, there wouldn't have to be many changes in the bill to make it just a good bill. But this is a fairly strange bill in view of its 1st transferer, who is former secretary of transportation and rural management, and then put it forward as the highest level. Minister. However, it is a tradition for any similar case to arise again, so take the next minister's attention. If there's no interest in it for a team of colleagues. A senator, then, why does this offer support? Yeah. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson? It could be that this is, in fact, the worst idea. The secretary of transportation and rural government is unwilling to deliver the case because he knows that this is not a good thing? Then there's the other one, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson spoke of this as being comparable to an observed bill, as shown in a case already. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son, Proppér, by all means. It just makes me ask: Is it trying to develop some kind of wrong religion with members of Congress today? I don't understand any of the factors involved. It is the best thing to try to improve the self - determination of the local community. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we should work together to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy counter. I can't help but be glad that in the prince's hand we are why. A senator agrees on the self - determination rights involved. The case is to reroute the obligation that there are a legal number of representatives in each rural society. Today, rural society is incongruous. There's been a lot of discussion about their business, which I believe is natural to come into the discussion but I don't want it involved myself. The environment of rural society varies. The number of representatives may vary. I think that's one of the best options for rural society to decide. It's in the finger of the Prince how I look at this matter. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is a 1st carrier that the bill would have in this historical context, both that the Independence Party made a strong comment on this exact point at its time and time. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson was the traveling minister and district minister on this matter. He could ask my minister why he didn't submit it. I didn't. I thought this was normal, since, fortunately, members of the council are free to contribute any matter. That's the case. I'm going to the end, I'm sorry, I'm going to the top. Mr President, I'm just passing the clock, to agree with what. A senator on the limitations of 2,000 inhabitants, it would probably be appropriate to consider giving it entirely free and to place it in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u96	Mr. President. Yes, although we agree in the princely position to increase the criminal rights of the community, I feel that a series of action is very important. Now we've got 51⁄27 times the size of rural government over North countries. You would expect that if one of the northern countries had significantly more local rulers than the rest of them, it might be something to look at. But since we have prominently fewer members of the countryside than the rest of the North countries, the problem may be here. Of course, if the number should come from where the need is most important, we should first examine how we deal with the economic situation, the financial situation of our rural society. Put it first. Then there may be circumstances and arrangements for the population to grow, to take better terms of democracy, even to practice the democratic love that I know is present in many people. Once our rural communities are on a much better foundation, we can begin to open the door completely. I'm not saying we can't do it right now. Of course it is. Councilmen are free to submit any bill they wish to, of course, that it will not be overlooked by the president of the council and that it may be granted its permission. However, it must be the priority for each of us to set matters straight. And it's the top priority of the local financial community, not the number of local government agents, at least not so that they need to be reduced or have access to clearance to the limit of their numbers to the extent that they are caused by a democracies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u97	Mr. President. It's been a fine, informative discussion. I'd just like to step aside to some of the things that happened. A pilot and 1st aviator of the bill. There he was told about democracy. He also became aware that there may have been some peculiar motive that humbled him because he did not cooperate in the case, but I do not intend to say anything about it, but he said that this was coming from the wish of coming to representatives in the city, for it would be easier, if the city religion had grown. I'm not entirely convinced that this is the right thing to do, considering what we will now achieve, and there is evidence. I think they were worried for no reason. However, a person may allow himself to reason on the basis of his opinion. A messenger who says: "Are those who sit on the surface for defending their strongholds and who make sure that others don't make it? Some people might even think about it, though I don't want to do it. That's the opinion of a senator. Another factor mentioned by the carrier was the need to maintain stability in the unit control level. It would be so that people would avoid it rather, it would not be desirable to be there at work and very necessary to maintain a stabilite so that it would not be good if there were a great change in the rural government at once. He specifically mentioned that women have difficulty in rural management. I'm assuming you're right, and I know you're right. This is generally true of the involvement of women, unfortunately, in politics. They seem to last a little bit, or they may encounter obstacles, that they do not have political success or that they cannot pursue it for some reason. It brings to mind that this is no doubt a time for local elections and mayor's elections. Today, the Independence Party in Reykjavík will make a decision on the setting up of the situation. It seems to me that experience with the government is not exactly a priority for choosing the list. It seems to me that, if you're doing well with the Independence Party, you're going to be almost all people who don't have experience with local politics, at least not mayor business. Second, this is where we learn that the most experienced woman on the part of the lndependence team is not getting a walk. She'll be pushed aside. That's a very strange argument for me, isn't it? ... aman. Then there is a bit of that attitude in his speech, for he chose to make his own restoration and smaller categories into special publicity, that those new in the field and smaller are somehow more than the people on the surface, and this is now all the safest in the hands of the local authorities. Then there is one factor about the number of representatives, and that even occurred. ... in the city's review of this case, and it should be noted that more of the city supports the current arrangement as it is now, in order to be viewed, that the city is a major community, if we stick to it, because it is the most important thing in this discussion, and there are larger and complex projects and a number of committees. Among other things, one prospective member of the Independence Party has made a special study project to determine how many committees are assigned to the city. That's interesting information. I don't want to see if they're too many or too few. But this leads to the appearance of agents, i.e. The people on many of those committees are not elected agents. They have no authority in that sense, sit in the shelter of groups who take control of the city, and are selected from those lines. They're not elected. By increasing the number of elected representatives in the city, they are able to do more work in behalf of the city. All I wanted to do was sit back on these points. There are some things I think are contrary in the history of the 1st transporter. It was not signed or spoken by others who specifically dragged the city into this or by individual political parties and by their sides. Rather, it was a messenger himself. He must be more concerned about his own party status and the rest of the city's candidates. It seems to me that his entire language would appear quite substantial. No other conclusion can be drawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u98	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying I understand the idea, and in general, I'm going to back it up, but that's what we're trying to criticize, in order to make it perfectly clear. This law in the government is for the people of democracy, the democracy in general, very much and very much. A circuit overseer urged the council to make adjustments. I'll put a plan on one right now, just so specific. It is not unusual to have certain democratic rights that people can accept, e.g. Set the floor on the number of agents. In current regulations, 11. depending on a particular table, it has a set floor, but it also has a roof. I don't see anything wrong with removing the roof, nothing. Besides, I don't see anything wrong with revising the floor in any way, so it's even lower than it is, but then I'd like to add that decision simply confirmed by civil democracy. Now the Piranians have been talking about and have developed ideas about people's democracy. In rural politics, you see, there is a law that allows citizens to collect signatures so that they can move up coverage into the local government or even direct a vote on the subject. It would not be surprising to take the initiative that this might come from there. Or if a government decides to change the floor, to reduce the number of rural ideals, the confirmation of the population would result in a direct change in these matters. We need to consider that there is a possibility of democracy because of the larger categories that benefit from reducing the number of representatives. We know this. We can't ignore that fact. We must turn our backs on the democracies that can become. The goody guy obviously thinks I'm a citizen's election, it's not that complicated. While a set of floors was set in the general law according to a particular number of people, it would be good to have some incentive to have at least a few more district managers in general so that a number of them were not usually at the floor. Maybe not. These are my speculations. However, the result of having fewer representatives is that less control and control are actually easier. If we talk about politics on a national level, it's easier if you don't need to speak to as many members of the local community and there's more potential for secrecy and corruption in such an environment. By increasing the number of representatives, they are creating a broader ground for consultation, in which secrecy and corruption do not thrive as well. I'd like to draw attention to what is said in this bill, both in the a-and-b-parties, mainly in the b-party, about 2,000 people, and that the nobles are not more than seven, but not less than five. It remains the same with the current law, stating that rural areas with fewer than 2,000 people should have between five and seven main members. It's left unchanged. All other steps in the table are changed to a minimum of five agents. That's a little dangerous democratic, I think. Suppose that in a rural community of 50,000, the greater part would decide to put down a number of local officials to five. There is certainly a greater discussion that we need to take with people in general, whether they feel good or at all possible. There should not be such a danger if it is a national election as to whether it should reduce the number of rural society and even increase it if so. What Piratars have suggested in terms of the idea that closer society has more on its own self - control to say, which we believe - this distribution doesn't quite complete, and we're supporting the defects in it - we've suggested that the rural communities are more independent of them, they need to have more financial resources. It's very simple. The economic situation is a major factor in how their societies really depend on the government on their implementation and on the activities they need to maintain, both legal and evolutionary. We fight that the inhabitants, not necessarily the delegates, will receive more direct democracy by presenting the concept that rural society can lower the signing threshold needed to give an election on a particular subject. If anything is, it is really more urgent than to adjust the number of agents, in my opinion, as suggested by this proposal. It is more urgent to redirect democracy. I'm simply going to suggest that we take this discussion. We support ideas about the greater self-infliction of rural governments and closer to society and the population, the people near society, working with it. These are my plans for the changes I'd make to a environmental and transport committee, although I'm an agent, I don't quite know how to put it down but see, it's gotta work. Maybe she'll just come before the council after the committee's decommissioned. This does not have to be a masquerade. This, however, is to be a cooperative process in which we are to take this discussion in a larger context with people and rural groups involved in this matter. We want to avoid the potential danger that exists that larger groups can create democracies by reducing the number of ruralitarians and, in effect, avoiding the fact that smaller groups will be able to identify the greater part of the surveillance. It could, for example. five representatives of a rural government, perhaps three in a larger section and two in a smaller part of the two largest categories. It is well - known in Icelandic politics, this concept of 50 percent change. From that basis and because of that story, I find this proposal to be extremely dangerous, just because. We must not ignore this possibility that is not so remote, far from it. What we should do to solve it is to make our rural communities more independent by their own financial means and to promote the direct democracy within them, the closer to society, and a greater consultation between the Generals and the local governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u99	Mr. President. I felt obliged to appear in this case, for the first of them directed his words in his enforcing address so warmly to my company, the attitude of restoration, and felt that we were standing in the way of this case last year. In fact, I have to say, as it is, that I find the matter in this picture as clear and simpler than it was then. Not that way, that case was handled in the government I sat in last year. I didn't make any comments with it then, and I don't have any comment on it now either, except for these, that I like it better this way. This is, of course, to be a country partner's personal right, how they feel the need for many representatives in the county government. It was true that someone suspected that some political bitch might be behind him as a pack of whales. In the rural election, a traveler paid much attention to the local government election. It is the best thing to do if they want to make some sort of compromise. However, it is important for rural society to be able to man - made government or mayor according to events and the regular committees employed there. I've totally agreeed with the views that have been presented, e.g. As far as Reykjavík is concerned, this does not necessarily involve the city's cost of increasing its citizens, as is the case with them, at the same time, in the rest of the city's fasting committees, which is paid for extra today as I understand it. This case is very clear and good to me. This is simply the custody of the local community to determine who the need is. But first, what? Jón Gunnarsson's traveling overseer was doing something about restoration and freedom of mind in this matter. I can comfort him by being complete and true in this matter as another matter. That may be the big difference - because the same thing. A senator may invite us to his home, as he says - that we are serious about freedom. Therefore, we do not place these matters as adorable cases allowed to dwindle in the council, but we are never finished, as the Independence Party has done over the years; the class of the word - playing class, not long ago, but seems to favor the plant in recent times. You see, there are times when these freedoms need to be completed, not just talking about them over and over a year from now. A group who have served in the government of the lung from the past 25 years need to be able to take pride in having at some point managed to get them through votes, not just to have put them back and forth again. With a scholarship as much as the squad has had in the past, it's a pity never to finish these matters either. But who knows, maybe we'll be able to finish a few of these things during this council. We will discuss changes in the issues that this excellent bill is about, and more is involved in changes in human names, and even alcohol laws and so on. It is only that we gain a solid solid solid solidarity to complete it together, whether in a position of government or in a smaller part.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u100	A respectable president. I thank you for the excellent discussion that has taken place on this matter and for the support that has been shown by many members of the council. I see that there is a measure of agreement to be able to handle it, even by making adjustments, during this council so that it will affect our elections and the decision to transfer it formally to the local government at present. You're right about what you're doing. A member of Congress that the Independence Party has had its mottos away to the convention. I share that opinion with you. A senator that we have become far too limited in recent years, although cases have certainly developed in order to ensure that the government's business as a proportion of GDP has become considerably intertwined. In itself, it is not a standard to be used, but it is much more important that we consider together the projects that we can combine to come from the State to the general labour market, and eventually in some cases also to the rural society, tasks that should be better at home in the near environment. I think I was the only Minister in the last government, we were. A member of the council sat in a formality review of all the institutions under my department in order to reduce the activities of the institutions under my office. I didn't have time to go all the way in that regard, as we know. But the work is there, and it can work on if it is willing to continue. I'd like to make comments to what was presented here, that this is done with contempt for a few more bids. I agree with the opinion that democracy needs to be established within the countryside, civil democracy, as much as possible. There's a lot of ways to get in touch with the local authorities. We've seen growing jobs in that direction, with local meetings, local elections for jobs in the neighborhood, in the larger rural areas. This is what we've seen advertising about. I've come to this sort of meeting myself, and I think it's a good development that's going to be growing. Communicating elections are nothing more than local elections, and they are a fine measure of the quality of making a performance rating, choosing them according to the emphasis they have. In this regard, it may not be necessary to have special votes on every subject. Rather, it is chosen every four years. Of course, it is a very rich population democracy that involves a great grip on those who are elected at any given time. This discussion has led to the development of municipal income populations that should be more independent. There is a measure of independence already in the process of paying a so - called out or the tax that comes with it. There is room - but it is a roof. I don't think it's unusual that taxation in this country has something to do with a roof, whether it's in the area of the government or the state. This is an enormous case, and it has been the rivalry of many rural partners to maneuver their business so that they can reduce population embezzlement, manipulate their business so that they can offer even less expensive services than in other rural communities, lower fees for nurserys, etc. It can be counted for a long time. There's a lot of room for the locals to take action. I welcome adjustments in this matter that may even go further. I feel that there is good reason to consider all of this in a positive way, but I still believe that the treatment doesn't have to be long in this case, it is important that the Council should complete it as soon as possible to make its impact visible in future rural elections. I don't see anything to delay it. Even though some have mentioned that there is reason to call a representative from all rural areas in the country to meet with the committee, I feel strongly obliged to assume that the representatives of each group can attend a meeting of the Committee on these spring days. But clearly all views need to be taken care of and a line that most rural groups have about their attitude toward this. The Icelandic community is a member of the community's community. This issue has been discussed in the field that often reflects a certain vast solid solidarity. Of course, all these viewpoints need to be sought and given opportunity in the political treatment of the matter by the Committee. As far as I'm used to, I don't think there's any delay in the case so that it can't get done soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u101	Mr. President. The basic democracy rule for the Pirates, which is the first rule of our basic policy -- no, it's not the first rule, the first rule is that we should make informed decisions, which is the first rule of deliberation that everyone has the right to have the right to make decisions that are relevant to them. This is very similar in the United Nations Democratic Declaration. Admittedly, it is more talk about nationalities, but it is said that the public is right as close as governments or those in authority, that they are the most successful. Now I don't remember having received - and I was trying to find it - messages from what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's involvement in the case. How good it is when power is being given closer to the people! One thing that the senator may not realize is that if the arrival of the local community is not guaranteed directly to this decision, which certainly affects them in their democratic decision to vote for its representatives, it is very easy for an elected member of the local community to abuse this change; if it is not guaranteed that local government decisions, changes in the number of representatives, should be approved in local elections, I am not referring to the election for local government, but to the election of citizens of that matter in particular. I can give you an example. In the case of many, the number of representatives of the RUS government was increasing. A senator was in the government two terms ago, from seven to nine, and both of these delegates went to the governments. Thus, according to their status, the development, the growth, or the reduction of the number of the major groups, or the number of those in power, may be increased, and the number of other categories may be fewer. That would be a great democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u102	A respectable president. To me, the government elections and elections to the Generals include great democracy and a great deal of success with the past and the expectations of what lies ahead. We have applied the principle here that in view of the length of time, the public will have to choose which priorities will be placed in the various categories. Then there are possible ways to bring in elections at the state of the county level and as in national law on certain matters so that the inhabitants can make a guiding decision for both Congress and local governments. I think that in itself is good. We have often discussed that there is good reason to clear those rules. In this respect, the presence and authority of the council have also been discussed. I believe we should try to take acceptable steps in that regard. Some conclusion had come to what not everyone accepted, but most people did. And let's get on with that job. [[Up front.]] When possible, efforts must be made to avoid misuse of power. But there is obviously democratic authority in the country when more things are done. This will be settled every four years in our arrangement. There's a lot of democracy involved. I'm glad that there's support and maybe some adjustments announced. Let's just take that up, but let's just point out that they're not just going to delay the matter but that we're going to try to take care of it now so that these laws will change for springtime. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u103	Mr. President. The reason I mention this is that the senator speaks of a representative democracy, which is truly democracy, but the requirement for the public's direct approach has become not merely to vote for his representatives but to decisions in important matters, decisions that affect the population. Hence, the requirement for terms of inhabitants has become louder, as was the case with national pay. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, the traveling overseer, notes that it is democratic that the local governments and the rest of the party make these decisions. If this bill succeeds without the presence of the population, without its inhabitants being able to stop the rural government in it, it means that more parts of the rural government can arrange things so that they are more likely to obtain more representatives. The greater part can change the rules so that he can get more representatives - that is very against them - not just relative but more representatives. When the circuit overseer, from seven to nine, went to the greater part of both new representatives. That's super anti-violence, isn't it? The choice, to move it, I agree. But we need to make sure that this is not merely a move to local governments that can abuse it in securing more representatives by running the rules, running to a number of representatives. We do this by saying: "No, thank you. We don't want you to change these rules, we want you to have it like this. Make-up Pirate's proposal - we've started to win her and we're good at what we're doing. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson calls for changes -- will sound such that if local government officials are to make a decision to change the number of members of the Company to make that decision independently to the local community. In this way, we will make more democracy, greater access to people to decision-making on their own matters. It will be better for all of us. [[The president calls.]] Will the senator support such a suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u104	A respectable president. As I said earlier, I feel very positive to look at this, to go even further. Let's go over it. It is not without condemnation to choose a case like this. This was handled some years ago in mayor elections; this case had no doubt a major impact on the outcome of the election. Of course, that would always be the case. Of course, if more than one part makes a decision during the election period to increase or reduce the number of agents, in this case, if we discuss this matter, there will be a vote resolution. You can discuss it and see if it would be specifically asked, so that the result would be binding, how many agents would be; it's probably a matter of observation. Still, I feel that such decisions as those that are controversial but many other people would be part of the election. There are precedents, as I said before. Let's just look at this. I'm glad that the discussion is at this stage, whether or not there is any further change in the subject can be discussed with the representatives who come to us on this matter and then see what happens. But I am stressing the importance of completing this matter so that these laws will take effect as soon as possible. Given the paint I hear from what I'm talking about. The members of Pirata, I presume, will be their focus because they will eventually have an account of it with people in their communities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u105	Mr. President. I recommend here for the synopsis of investment in research and development, which is aimed at hiding tourism, industrial and innovation ministers looking for ways to increase the share of investments in research and development in Iceland to achieve more than 2.8% of GDP by 2020. Investment is closely correlated between research and innovation and economic growth. New creations increase the variety of jobs, increase the number of jobs, and increase the average income. The countries that have led to a clear policy on increased investments in research and development have reaped considerable growth. An increasing budget for this group should be a self - aware feature of the government's actions to ensure future benefits from the current economy. The development of innovation and research can be enhanced by increasing research and development funding, increasing tax appeals, improving research and development programmes. The investment level is also compared with a strong university research environment and a strong impulse for sceptical and innovation companies that focus on research and development in their work. According to the OECD report on key scientific and technological references published on February 7, 2017, in Iceland's research investments and development of 2.19% of GDP in 2016 took place. The highest investment level based on OECD data is 4.25% of GDP in Israel, but in South Korea it is 4.23%, it is 3.49% in Japan, 3.26% in Sweden, 3.07% in Austria, 2.96% in Denmark, 2.90% in Finland, 2.87% in Germany, and so on. The lowest took place in the countries I had compared is 2.21% in Slovenia. There has been an increase in the proportion of research initiatives and development in Iceland since 2013, but figures for 2008-2012 are not available. However, statistics from 2000 indicate that by 2001 the proportion reached a maximum of 2.81%, indicating that this number was overestimated at its time. There are now measurements according to the OECD manual Frascati, where several factors are considered, i.e. for research and development, innovation, creation, systematic work and use options. That's the way it is, for example. Standard or routine activities in which there is no detectable innovation or solution to problems are not considered for research or development. President. The effects of innovation and economic development cannot be overemphasized. There's a lot of need here. As I told you before, the percentage in Iceland is pretty low compared to a lot of reference countries, almost all of the OECD countries. There is a great need to increase the share. The Icelandic economy has only four main sites, and as I have discussed before, the comparison of the relative size of individual economic support here with other countries is very striking. Most people know the Spain to form primarily a tourist service, but while tourism is more than 30% of our GDP in Iceland, it is 16% of the gross domestic product in Spain. Similarly, Germany's largest industry, i.e. the car industry, just 12.8% of the export income. In most lands, there is considerable diversity. Of course, we're a small country, and it's taken time to build up our headwork, but it's gotten pretty strong. But we need to contribute to a similar variety here. There's a lot of good things to do in innovations in Iceland. There are fancy innovation companies in biotechnology, software sector, industrial development devices, support tools development, financial services, and so forth. But innovation is not just promoting new employment; it is promoting better use of opportunities and development methods in the existing industry. Potential in fishing roads, e.g. Many and in some ways well - known, but perhaps even less. There are studies running among Icelandic people on new fishing instruments, more efficient manufacturing techniques, better use of raw materials and more valuables all over the high chain, which are fundamentally fundamental to the continued global superiority of the Icelandic Seabed. We also have a fancy company that is developing new avenues of market knowledge, tourism and services, and more. There are good things to do. But more is needed if it is to be done. You can, for example. Some 1,400 billion dollars were covered by direct foreign investments in Iceland. In 2015, i.e. all the investments that have been made combined, not the investments of that year. But this is a relatively small amount according to the size of the economy. Although economic growth in Iceland is generally quite high at the moment, some estimates indicate that it is 0.2% lower than the global average economy, i.e. This is not statistically significant, but it tells us that Iceland's economic growth is primarily accompanied by a general trend in the world's economy, and we are not necessarily on a boat. This can naturally be measured in a variety of ways, and methods do not match perfectly. This is linked with the need for harmonization of measures. This shows that we need to improve. Of course, countries have used very different ways of doing so. It is not up to the government to bring down a specific percentage of GDP that goes into research and development, on the contrary. Of course, this is largely in the hands of the research and development companies. But it is clearly in the interest of national interests when considering e.g. the prosperity that has been gained in Israel after this course was taken. The number of technology companies has increased, their export potential has increased, their economy has risen considerably, so it is in the interest of national interest that a minister is given the task of creating a better situation. In fact, he has this role - the literal role of the Minister of Creation - to promote innovation in the land. There's no question about it. But we need to create a situation where there will be more research and development. Part of it is building a fund to improve strength. Part of it is to make suitable taxes where appropriate. The job is simply to open up the work environment, to reduce the speed limit to these companies, to the starters that are developing. I've mentioned before how costly it is to start a new company in Iceland. It costs about 140,000 bucks. to establish a private partner in Iceland compared to about 12 pounds in Britain and 15 euros in Germany. It's not a difference of 1 percent, it's of a completely different order. This number, 2.8% of gross domestic product, as a guide for Ministers, is being developed as measurable results to be considered. It also states that a minister should at least publish Annual data on progress until target is reached. The task of improving the research and development of innovation in this way is, not something that we think of ourselves, but that we are as a council of active surveillance and ministers to share this information. That's actually a very moderate suggestion. We could have set the goal considerably higher. Of course, it is Porta's council that makes this suggestion. We could have been trying to reach, for example. Austria, with 3% more than 2.8%, or even overcoming Israel, which was a very cool goal and perhaps a goal in itself to get up to 4.25%. But we don't have to go there just yet. Maybe someday we'll get there. Perhaps at some point in the world we will be leading in research and evolution. But today, it's enough that we make it at least. beyond 2.8% and even reach the climax we had in the previous year of 2001. Then we've created a situation where innovation companies, wands, and other such services in Iceland are considerably better. There are a lot of ways to do that. I hope this proposal is approved and to the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers take this task for granted and complete it in style.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u106	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for his story in this case is a proposal for the interpretation of investments in research and development. Hv. The importance of research and development and innovation was greatly appreciated by a senator. The standard for future life depends on our considering these factors. Before I come to the question, I would like to see that in a government contract the highest. Governments are very important to this aspect. Therefore, I welcome this proposal to introduce our project to study and evolution. I thought so, too. A senator will come to the important part of the strength we have in our more traditional sectors, if we can call it that way, fishing soil and agriculture. Although innovation and research and development are important in all fields, also in the fields of thought, there is always a specific strength in basic working roads, where knowledge has been built up for a long time. I agree with what. A senator in it. The synonym suggests that a certain proportion of gross domestic product is being produced. I'll admit that I'll always stop when you mention attaching to all the valuables we make in one year. Hv. A senator said that we could even be more demanding. I'm gonna ask you what. Senator: Why does the movers land the motion there in 2.8%, where does this number come from exactly?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u107	Mr. President. It's a very valid question, since I am always very busy with random numbers that people may be able to offer. This is simply because we aim at the maximum we have achieved in research and development, with a true degree lower than that of 0.01 percentages, although it may have been overrated in the past. We've previously reached 2.81% as assessed, which may have been too estimated. But all right, we make it our aim to do at least as well as we have shown that we have been able to do before. Certainly it is very strange to me to aim for a proportion of GDP in part because it has been repeatedly shown that GDP is primarily a measure of change in the amount of money in circulation and has really very little to do with the actual production or economic activities of countries. But the reason we chose to go this way is primarily because it is the standard for which OECD applies, that is the standard for most countries. As I said in the history of history, the goal is, not to add some particular number, but to encourage people to continue, and especially, in view of the new creation emphasis displayed in the Government Treaty, to encourage at least the position of becoming as good as we have been before. But if you could aim for, e.g. The total financial activity that they would be, and so many billions of them a year, might be the best, too. [[The president calls.]] But this is just the standard we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u108	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think we could argue with the ratio in a number of ways. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator made a good answer, and he admitted that it is often dangerous to attach a ratio to how the economy flustered, we can say. Surely we have done many things well. I think the Icelandic government is very aware of the importance of promoting innovation, research, and development at any given time. The Treaty suggests that to improve the global competitiveness of research and development, there should be a reevaluation of arrangements for research and development reimbursement. I'd like to ask you later. Senator on this. Now we've paid 20% back, we've had a roof on these payments. This is certainly very important. This varies from country to country if we consider it. Of course, this has to do with it, when we start to attach ourselves to some particular percentage of GDP, that there are so many other things to do. I use methodology, such as the mall, the marine cluster, and the apocalyptic cluster. There is nothing other than the methodology of research and development and innovation. I'd like to see what I can find out. The senator for this show, this coincidence, to reimburse the cost and the roof. I'd rather you were. A senator wants to take it away completely, as is really presented in the government covenant? And the remuneration rate, have importers of the proposal and why. A senator developed a view of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u109	Mr. President. It is true, it was a great pressure on most groups in the leading of the last election to agree to eliminate this roof. If you look at the sizes, we're the lowest in Europe, I think if Sweden is excluded. I find Sweden's cases very interesting in this context because Sweden has no reimbursement, but Sweden is the country that produces the most striking findings in innovation and development in the world, where it competes to form Switzerland and, in fact, several other countries. However, the technique that Sweden has used is not a reimbursement of research and development but, rather, other types of nature. For example, as in Iceland, there is a tax charge for experts who move abroad. The discounts are considerably higher in Sweden. I'm totally open to take these roofs off, and if there was a bill about it from the highest level. Minister, I'd love to press the green button, finish it. But I want us to look at other ways, and not necessarily aim at one particular standard because all individual standards can be defective. For example, in discussions with people in innovation companies, there have been ideas of increasing numbers, such as International Witness schools for children to attract more international experts, better care for their partner's work permit, rethinking the composition of competitive funds, even being reduced, they are united and, of course, increased into them and that we would promote innovation in elementary schools, high schools, colleges, etc. There are many things we need to do. In the end, this suggestion may not merely be about establishing 2.8% as a goal but about pushing us forward in the right direction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u110	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis proposal for a low tax state. This is a suggestion to provide a financial and economic minister for the General bill with the following modification of the legislation on the low tax states: First, the definition of a low tax State will be extended so that it will not be confined to areas where income tax from the profit of the company is less than two-thirds of the tax on which it would have been placed here, as per current 2 mgr. 57st. a income tax laws, no. 90/2003, but it also includes areas that regularly provide European governments not the necessary information for the implementation of the taxpayer. Tax sea is often used for the sake of so - called tax returns, but more often, to hide property and income. It is reasonable that the definition of low taxes and its proper effects also apply to the tax profits that are new for that purpose. Second, a minister is suggested to publish a guide list for state and jurisdiction that are likely to conform to the definition of low taxes. This was stated before 7 mg. 57st. a Treat on income tax that a minister published a list of countries and regions that, according to this article, taxation. In December 2010, the Department of Economic Affairs published such a list, but, on permission of the president, it concluded that he [called] neither binding nor exhaustively, as the final tax rate of his comrades, funds and institutions that [had] taxable domesticity, [represented] only after a careful consideration of the tax authorities was made. The orders were dismissed by law No. 45/2013, with reference to the fact that the art could not be binding or exhaustive, since the final tax rate of the person was not available until after the government's transfer. In view of this, it is not suggested that the minister published the final list of low taxes. Clearly, though, some areas are more likely than others to fall to the definition and are useful for taxpayers and the public to have information about them. It is suggested that the minister publish a guide list of them. Third, it is suggested that direct and indirect segregation should be reported to the tax authorities in the low tax countries. In 1st. 90. gt. law on income taxes says that in tax returns, taxpayers should report on tax burden issues, including property, and creditors in low taxes should provide tax returns to a specific report, CFC report, taxpayers in low tax areas. However, tax returns are reported only at the end of the year. By measuring for a report of direct and indirect ownership departments in the low taxes state, it is easier for the tax authorities to recognize the situation at one time. This should facilitate the tax control, which is particularly important in low taxes. Fourth, it is suggested that a special check fee should be paid in the state funds due to direct and indirect ownership share in legislation in low taxes. Such segregation is accompanied by the inevitable need for much and complex tax control. It is more natural for the individual to have expenses for this than for the general taxpayers. Mr. President. Well, this proposal is not really taken out of thin air. In recent years, we have had to contend with the fact that Iceland's property has often been inserted into a tax bath. Tax sea is the proper word, even though we here speak of a low tax state, which harmonizes with the way these words are spoken in the current law. Of course, we are not just talking about a state where taxes are low. There are many countries where the tax rate is even higher than where property can easily be hidden in such a way that it is impossible for the tax authorities and others to access information about what is going on, exactly what is going on, and so forth. This is, in effect, a suggestion where it is directed to the secretary to fix this, to help us get this information, and that the expense of the surveillance of those who own these assets in the tax industry will be carried out by those individuals who choose very deliberately, always deliberately, always with full knowledge on their part because they will sign stocks and other things, to take their possessions and even money to countries where they can get away with a normal tax section in Iceland or elsewhere where they might call the civilized world. But I don't want to say that countries are necessarily uncivilized even though they have lower taxes, but there is a tendency to want to avoid countries that may be more economic and normal in all government services. It's a very small change, and it's not really a change, it's a very modest suggestion. We're not supposed to have to see another case of the Panamas or anything like that to understand the need for this. Now I have a previous job before I came to the council a great deal in research, including the U.S. Organized crime and corruption. It was repeated and persistent that each time someone was doing something illegal and harmful to his community, there was at some point a business of some sort in a tax plant that received and took up the money that got through that ill - treated of funds, possessions, and other items. There may be no need to mention British Virgin Islands or Belize or other lands that have specifically developed their own economy in a way that will make it easy to do this, where there are literally rules that allow people to give in to money, from the tax authorities, and from their society. The fact is, though, that this is an enormous industry worldwide. There are numbers, including. Gabriel Zucman, of whom up to 14 trillion dollars of U.S. dollars are being fired and sent to a global tax crisis, which I recall about 13% of total world production every year. It's not a small amount. Of course, only a fraction of what is taking place in Iceland. However, the fact is that Iceland is one of the countries in which it fits. We have extraordinary sources of authority. We also have another hundred cases in progress at the head of state tax from Panama documents alone, which was a data leak from one legal firm that specializes in such tax documents. Today, such legal companies divide hundreds of people worldwide. In fact, there are some squares in countries where I've been, between all the coffee shops and restaurants, law firms offering this service if you walk out of the street. I don't expect there to be data spills from 100 law firms or about where we get to the truth about what is being stored where and how much, and even if it was realistic, the biggest members would not even be in there. It's a problem. This is a problem of size that could be financed by all the health systems of the world for a century by the amount of money found in taxes. It is only natural, then, that we try to take some minimal step toward ensuring information about who is doing what and where and how much. By getting the information from the countries where possible, to limit business to some extent to those countries where we receive information or at least walk economicly against those countries that deliberately hide the paths of property, and to collect special monitoring fees from those who own possessions in those countries where there are literally difficult to get information, where monitoring of taxes and other tax payings is clearly more difficult and goes and happens, we will take a little step in the process of eliminating global problems. This is not the biggest step I can think of, but it's a step anyway. I hope that the proposal for the economy and business committee will be accepted, and that this case will be over, because there has been a great need over the years. It's no bigger now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u111	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the United Nations Convention on a ban on nuclear weapons. Transporters on this proposal are with me. Councilmen Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson The subject of the proposal itself is as follows, with permission of the highest level. President: ▪ The General concluded to hide the government from making sure that Iceland becomes a member of the United Nations Convention on Nuclear Prohibition. I'm here to explain the proposal, but a consistent proposal was made for Council 147, on the 45th case. It is now restored unchanged but with a slightly altered report. As I will better arrive in my case after that, this change in the report focuses mainly on the fact that what has happened in the meantime, i.e. Since this proposal was made last, the ICAN organization that has drawn the wagon in this case was given the Nóbel Peace Prize in the last year. Of course, there is an important and important subject that I wanted to include in the report, and that is why it was added. On July 7, 2017, 122 members of the United Nations agreed to an agreement on the ban on nuclear weapons. The contract will go into effect after 50 countries have signed and legalized it. It is hoped that, in time, this contract will become part of the most important disarmament agreements in the world, and a pair will be treated with contracts that prohibit chemical weapons, biological weapons, and land mines. So this is a huge deal. There is evidence of the importance of this agreement that the ICAN organisation, which worked hard at the concluded agreement, received the Nobel Peace Nóbel last year, as I mentioned earlier. As explained in the logic of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, the organization played a major role in bringing together the nations of the world and preparing for this vital covenant. During the fifth hundred peace groups and groups worldwide, this organization, ICAN, is united. The prelude to the writing is the contract to ban nuclear weapons. The Treaty on the ban on the spread of nuclear weapons since 1968, generally referred to as the NPT Convention and 191 countries, has long been regarded as the most important disarmament agreement on nuclear arms. That contract includes bans on further spreading these destructive weapons, but it also lays down the obligation of the nations who already have nuclear weapons to work toward their extinction. However, there has been little growth in that part of the contract. The number of nuclear bombs has indeed been reduced, but it has also grown to perfection and has increased dramatically. Moreover, most nuclear powers defend the wooing high amounts to develop new and perfect nuclear weapons, and the idea of limited use of such weapons in general warfare is, unfortunately, being more and more serious. In this regard, there is the recent reexamination of the Trump nuclear policy in Washington, which accounts for a much wider use of nuclear weapons than previously discussed. It is important to bear in mind that, in this context, smaller and/or rhythmic weapons are still involved with bombs of the size blown over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. I would also like to state that although the government in Washington is specifically mentioned here, there are nine nuclear powers. This is not just a matter of the United States. This, of course, turns to all nuclear powers. The United States is the state that owns most of the weapons, the state that puts the most money in military equipment, so it may be normal to name them entirely. But I repeat, of course, it's about all those who have nuclear weapons. Opponents of nuclear weapons have long warned against this trend, i.e. that, on the one hand, the bombs are becoming more powerful, and the question is, Can you use them in warfare? It has been noted that as more energy and money are involved in the development and production of weapons, there is more knowledge that is involved in the spread of weapons. Mankind has never built a weapon that it has finally used. In this context, it may be appropriate to mention North Korea, which is an example of an underdeveloped country in many ways that many might have thought wouldn't have been able to develop nuclear weapons, but it could. There I think that because more research is being done, more weapons are being tested, and much more knowledge is being gained. In view of all of this, a group of countries concluded that the international community must go beyond any prior disarmament agreements and bring into law absolute bans against nuclear weapons, which would fully demonstrate that nuclear powers would themselves contribute to their extinction within the existing covenant. Such a deal would, as would be the case. was the case with the ban on land mines, beginning with the initiative of countries who do not have nuclear weapons today and then becoming general. The countries that have led to the United Nations nuclear bomb crisis are around the world, but the European countries that agreed on the matter were Sweden, Austria, Cyprus, Ireland, Malta, and Switzerland. The debate on the making of the covenant was avoided by most Member States who decided well, while NATO's military policy still rests on establishing the right to use nuclear weapons in the first place. So it was 122 nations that voted by making a covenant to ban nuclear weapons during the United Nations General Assembly. As previously said, the treaty will have a formal value as one of the UN covenants when two parties have taken place, on the other hand, at least 50 Member States signed the contract and on the other hand, at least one member of the United Nations covenant. Fifty states have validated him at their councils. The situation today is that the first condition is met, 56 kingdoms have signed the treaty at the UN headquarters, and five countries have already validated it at their national conventions. It will be the kingdoms of Cuba, Guyana, Mexico, Thailand, and the Vatican. It is estimated that many more countries will follow in the near future. The European countries that have already signed at UN headquarters are Ireland, Austria, and Liechtenstein. As mentioned earlier, the Vatican has both signed and validated the agreement. I hope this whole matter is handled well by a body of Congress... for an enormously important disarmament contract... to discuss the use of nuclear weapons, these terrible weapons that can easily destroy all life on earth, will be banned. I hope we have a good discussion on this subject and then we'll end up hiding the government that Iceland becomes a party to the deal. Our voice is important in this context not only because we need to get into the number of 50 kingdoms that have signed and so validated it but also because we want to be leading forces when it comes to world peace. I believe this is one of the most urgent things we can do right now, to become part of this covenant. I suggest that the end of this discussion be referred to. The Foreign Affairs Committee and for the rest of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u112	Mr. President. I agree with this proposal, and it's a huge need for her, and it's kind of embarrassing for us that we didn't agree on this agreement on the basis of the United Nations at its time, but Iceland's representative might not even be allowed to pay the vote, which raises questions as to whether there is any policy at Iceland's government to shun votes that may be uncomfortable with the United Nations. This is, in fact, absolutely necessary. More than that, of course, only two for military purposes, have been bombed on earth by 2,250 nuclear bombs, but as shown in the case of what happened. The senator is really just a matter of time before it happens again. It's just completely set-up, that's all. But the problem is, it's not quite clear that this is because Iceland is a party at NATO, and I think I know that there's not going to be a change, maybe not a perfect reason for it, but the defence may be important. I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether she sees some sort of problem in Iceland's defense of foreign attackers against our nuclear weapons, whether we are in NATO, and that will not change will create some sort of problem and whether this will fit into government national security policy. I'd also like to ask if it was somehow different from the cluster bombing and the land mines that we're on even though our NATO partners used these weapons and made it stand firm. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for this good answer and for considering important factors that we need to keep in mind and to make a difference. I would like to begin by saying that of course, it was quite surprising that Iceland was not involved in the United Nations negotiation talk when it was discussed with the proposal of the treaty. In fact, it is heavier than tears that the NATO nations in general would avoid these discussions, for of course their voice is important at the table. It's the ones we're going to need to get to the table and get them to change course. As for us as members of NATO, and as to whether there are problems that might be complicated, it would probably be easier for us to enter into this covenant if we were not members of NATO. I don't think there's anything to overlook. But ICAN officials have given high priority to the fact that the NATO nations should be able to arrive at the table and participate and their voice is important. In any case, it is said that all NATO's member nations have a voice at the table. Of course, Iceland is supposed to use its voice at that level while we're partners with the organization, promoting that NATO is changing the direction of nuclear weapons and that the states become members of this treaty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u114	Mr. President. Iceland is under ban on cluster bombs, and we're on the ban on mines. Yet, the United States is running one of the world's largest land mines, I believe they are in fifth place, i.e. ... onthecross of South Korea. The largest area is in the WestSahara, for those who are interested in it. True, they continued to use cluster bombs. True, it was long enough that at least 5% of explosives would not detonate them during use. The Current Prohibition is about the risks of reducing bombs from a cluster bomb and the possibility that even children will find them. This restriction has now been lifted by the U.S. government of Trumpur's time. Even though our fellow workers are using these two weapons, which are truly disgusting, the United States has no doubt about the government's becoming members of this ban. Yet somehow we desire and say that nuclear weapons cannot be banned because the United States, Britain, France, and other NATO nations may need them. It's hard for me to understand. Why this and not the other? In fact, I don't think it's too much for us to pursue the NATO policy of blinding these important matters. I think I know what. A senator agrees with me in this regard. Iceland could record this case and accept it. Then I ask: But in what ways is it realistic for us to legalize the democracy and the human rights court that exists in NATO? Because he is certainly the subject of this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u115	Mr. President. I wholeheartedly agree that we have other contracts, such as why. A senator mentioned earlier, such as the prohibition on cluster bombs and land mines that we are in, and it has been possible to succeed in spite of our situation in NATO. And fortunately, it has worked out. I think we should use it as a guide in the discussion, because there is clearly a way. I think it's about much political will and maybe some political courage, i.e. I dare break the ice and dare enter the field of NATO and speak for it. If the Council agrees with this arrangement, we are simply committed to the government to do so as soon as we join them in this covenant. I don't know if I'm the best person to answer how to deal with a democratic court in NATO, and I'm against our presence in that coalition, even using it. To argue that I do not consider it a democratic alliance. It's a little hard for me to tell you how to deal with democracies in an alliance that I don't believe is a government of democracy. But somehow we need to find ways to move on. As I said before, I think the way to that direction must be to take the discussion in that direction. Then perhaps what I have thought for a long time may be revealed, that there is no democracy in NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u116	A respectable president. I can't bear to add a few words to this discussion. I am one of the candidates for the proposal, and therefore I strongly support its content and all that I believe will contribute to the peace of the world. Before going to other psalms, I asked them why. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy how this fixed the democracies in NATO. I share an opinion of what? Árnadóttir But I started thinking when I listened to the interesting talk of those two whales. Councilmen before: Is this agreement adopted by NATO State to some extent in order to legalize democracies within NATO? Is this where the independent policy of the state of Iceland is at hand with these matters? I think there would be, at least, a step in that direction. I just wanted to talk about it. Late last year, I was privileged to recommend a similar proposal of a group of left - green groups at the Northern Parliament. It tells us that this discussion is going on in many places, whether there are countries inside or outside NATO. This debate is being carried on in many nations, national conventions, and international cooperation, such as the Council of Northern Nations. We were also allowed to have a word with Martti Ahtisaari, one of Nobel's Peace Nóbel winners, who has been very much involved in the search for peace for these matters, who wished us a very successful success in this struggle. He knew that it would be difficult in the dominant world and against the forces that would see its best interests in maintaining it, but he wanted us to benefit fully from it. I have always held a very simple stand for nuclear weapons. In many respects it is very naive, but it is based on the fact that no land should have the ability to destroy the earth; no one can be trusted for that kind of ability. If we look at the development of nuclear weapons and nuclear property, it has been centered on the idea that countries will develop nuclear weapons and then want to close their doors behind them. As a socialist in every area, I've always found it difficult to understand people who can justify the nuclear possession of the same state but who say that other countries cannot have the same weapons. This is not to say that the solution is that all countries get nuclear weapons, but rather contrary, that we should simply do everything within our power to prevent such destructive devices from exist. You cannot be sure that the countries or countries that have these weapons will comfort us. We do not know what the future holds. We don't know how the trend will be in national governance. I am an educated historian, and history is a vast collection of kingdoms that people thought would live for centuries and millenniums depending on the world form that people lived in at any given time. It's not. Kingdoms rise and fall, and we do not know what will happen to them. We know, however, that nuclear weapons are devastating and can threaten all our existence on earth. I simply don't have so much confidence in any government system, any human, that they can do it well. We are familiar with examples of how nuclear weapons have almost been used. We now see people seriously discussing the use of nuclear weapons as part of international conflicts. So this is a very important proposal and the deal, ICAN, which is what it is. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra the Árnadóttir'sdot, described so well earlier, is never more important than it is now. No matter what happens to this suggestion, of course, I sincerely hope that it will become reality, I want to encourage each individual to go wrong. A senator will study a contract for which ICAN has been fighting, because in the field ICAN, each member will be able to state his agreement or commitment. Hence, we do not necessarily have to rely on ourselves as a team to move things in the right direction, let alone that we can do so in one of the international relationships or in the cooperation and cooperation with NATO, but we, individually, can do our part by signing this declaration. So I would like to remind you, and we may discuss it when discussing other proposed suggestions, e.g. The cry of nuclear weapons, that in the approved national security policy for Iceland, there is a peace description for nuclear weapons. It's actually Iceland's official policy that there's never a nuclear weapon here. Why should we want what we do not want to have with us? I hope that most people have. Congress officials can add weight to making the world a more peaceful place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u117	Mr. President. I wanted to add a little bit to this discussion, because it is very good and important, that it is not necessarily necessary to be in opposition to NATO in order to be in opposition to the nuclear arms of NATO. I'm kind of such a peacemaker that I would like us to have no need for NATO or anything like that and for the world to live in perfect peace. But I haven't seen enough peace for enough time so that I completely trusted that peace will come just by some particular part of the world is disarming everything. In a sense, I agree to Iceland's defence alliance, at least while such a peace state is not established. It is the very problem, that NATO may have been at some point a defense alliance, and certainly called it in his original file, but has never been, in effect, and has repeatedly promoted, attack warfare in the most incredible places. It is a tradition that must be removed from the quickest. There's something Iceland's supposed to do very much for getting done. Also, Iceland has not done enough to draw a line between the success of NATO as a defense alliance to defend its member countries, but not a coalition that is about protecting their interests by fighting countries, where it is convenient to do so. We're supposed to draw this line. And we're supposed to be very clear. In order to draw boundaries, we need to demand democratic reform in NATO. We need to demand more transparency. We need to insist that this is how people are treated that they are not being used, e.g. Structural bombs and land mines, not to mention nuclear weapons at any time, and to eliminate the weapons considered unacceptable and disgusting in the world. As a result, I do not agree with the evidence that the support of NATO includes opposition to the nuclear bomb. This is not to say that when democracy enters a defense union, it must somehow give up the right to be against certain kinds of weapons. It can also be said that this does not necessarily mean that supporting the nuclear bomb requires that the NATO countries become the first countries to disarm themselves. There's a lot more need for North Korea to disarm. It is a country that has not cooperated greatly when it comes to trying to reduce nuclear threat. You could also talk about India and Pakistan. And we can also talk about Russia, America, and other countries. Of course, they're all supposed to be disarmed in time. And, of course, it will take time. However, the prohibition primarily opens up options, e.g. that we first forbid the codebalt weapon and neutron bombs, that we place certain restrictions on size at the start, to reduce the size of the whole thing. It has certainly been done in part with the Completed contract at its time and so on. NATO must accept that at the council, at least many of us make peace and insist that peace be maintained as far as possible. I'm not a special spokesman that we'll always be in NATO. I would like us to take down NATO the fastest, which depends on our achieving certain goals for world peace previously. This is the ideologies of international relations called realivism. I don't quite know why it gets that name over other theories. But I think all the ideas that might be held in the government or in the past governments, not to mention the governments of other NATO countries, that nuclear ban is incompatible with the involvement of NATO, are at the best of the premium, bullshit, because we can't do that. We have an example. We have the mall bombing order. We have the landmine ban, and we have the bioweapon, and other things, although NATO countries have not developed chemical weapons. But there are these examples. We're supposed to use them. We're supposed to be very hard to believe that because this has been done before, we can do this now. Since this is a defense alliance, there should not be any kind of assault weapon or weapon designed primarily for assault purposes. I suppose the case will go to the Foreign Affairs Committee and will do my best to pay its way through it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u118	A respectable president. I totally agree with what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy that there is nothing in our involvement with NATO that prevents us from accepting this agreement. I like to hear that there's some agreement between us on this contract, although our position in the matter of NATO is somehow different. I wanted to sin on my hands only and hope to the highest. The President doesn't blame me for that. I just want to talk to you for a second. A senator on NATO, although that is not exactly the subject of this synonym. Hv. A senator spoke of him as thinking that Iceland should be in a defense alliance, or that there was no reason to be in a defense alliance, but at the same time he said that NATO had never really been a defence alliance. NATO has existed since 1949. I'd like to ask you what. A senator when he feels it fully clear that NATO is not a protective alliance but, in fact, an entire military alliance, with all its consequences, including military attacks. Hv. A senator said that we should line up when it came to things that I and I had. A senator agrees with us about cluster bombs and nuclear weapons, and more was picked up. If you cross that line, count it. So a senator should leave NATO?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u119	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé is here with a very good friend. I appreciate that. I'm going to fix it first, or I'm going to think it's a correction. I believe our involvement in NATO is the very essence of the matter. Our party to NATO is the only reason, because I believe, that we are not already members of this agreement. Although there is no special consideration of the NATO body in the proposal as such, at least not as a priority, our participation is actually what this matter is about. We must be aware of that. When is it fully trained? I'm not sure. First thing. A member of the council may have brought this man's throne to the point that if it does, he may well have grown fully experienced it. I'm willing to accept that maybe it's fully experienced, because I've been so much for trying to work on democracy agencies, which may have explained some of my being here. Still, we have certain national security interests that we need to protect. It is a potential threat to invasion, although it is incredibly small today compared with what it was here in the years before. But she's somebody, though. It is always worth preparing for. There are also other dangers, terrorism, computer security risks, and the like, the information security risks we need to be alert to. Some of these can help us, such as the invaders. Most of it, if we're supposed to be completely honest. The greatest threat to national security in Iceland today is information security. NATO cannot do anything to defend us in this matter, nor will he even try, as it seems to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. This is a very informative and informative discussion. In many areas, it will deal with so much basic things that we rarely have an opportunity to discuss in this public talk. I don't exactly answer it as it is. A senator said. Our members that NATO has been a subject of controversy in the New World Translation since our visit to NATO - now that I am trying to calculate in my mind, aren't these turning into 70 years? Our members have never been directly subject to the nation. I know why. A senator is very interested in democracy. I'd like to ask him if he agrees at least. Our presence in NATO should be carried under national regulations. There are different opinions among peacemakers as to whether countries in NATO should leave NATO or try to influence NATO's policy. There are benefits and defects in both areas. I understand both opinions. But to some extent, I still feel that there is no less naivisism in thinking that NATO's course can be changed, but to hope that there will be peace here. But, hey. Senator, we're talking about nuclear weapons. NATO has a nuclear policy. We are members of an alliance with nuclear policy. In itself, I'm just wondering... Now my mind is completely stolen from my head. I'm not gonna talk in the air while I find her again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u121	Mr. President. It sounds to me that in some way we agree. True, I don't completely agree that it's always bad to have nuclear policy, since this synonym is part of a suggestion to establish a particular strategy for nuclear weapons. It is good to have a course, and, of course, the course of peace is to be taken. That's exactly what we agree on, I think. It is good to spend time watching the dangers of Iceland because they are there. Until some centuries have passed since the last country was attacked in the world or the last civil war, we will have some thought of our ability to defend us. A direct involvement in a defense alliance may not be necessary. That's a discussion I'd like to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u122	...free of information.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-22-28.u123	- Yeah, yeah. But there are new threats. I have complained about it to high officials in NATO, even to generals and others who have wanted to speak for the use of the Internet into the fifth battlefield, i.e. After the land, the sea, and the air, that the net may be the fifth battlefield, then in the space. That's why I don't agree so much. In fact, there are already space contracts that ban all warfare more than 100 miles [100 km] from sea level. Of course, there should be a similar agreement against all e - mails. Nevertheless, Internet attacks are the most dangerous threat. There is no way to be organized to defend yourself against it. Internet warfare is the greatest national security problem of our time. To avoid safety concerns, we need to use a considerably more reasonable and complete approach. [[The president calls.]]
