ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u1	A respectable president. I went over it at 2nd. how important a matter was here, thanking you. Board of Directors and Control Committee. Since I think it's in exceptional circumstances that someone comes in particular to commend those sitting behind me, the highest. I'm going to let myself do it now, thank you very much. The president, who is the 1st importer of this vital matter. We should also be diligent in thanking for what is well done. I am proud to participate in this vote and to turn this bill into law. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u2	The president would like to draw attention to the fact that there are all prime committees and representatives on the presiding committee involved, but, of course, he sees it as a blessing. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u3	Mr. President. I recommend more of the Committee's budget on budgets for 2018 and then review our committee opinion. The bill is based on 26. track No. 123/2015, public financial matters. It shows that a minister is allowed, if necessary, to seek additional financial resources in the bill for financial support in order to respond to temporary, unforeseen, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to respond with other legal resources. One of the objectives of the law was to reduce the use of budgets from earlier times, both by narrowing and better limiting the occurrences required of budgets, as well as by the law to include new legal resources for ministers, including transfers, reserves of individual lawsuits and general reserves designed to meet all major problems from schedules. Last year the first budget based on government financial laws was adopted. The more part feels that so far, the goal of the new law has not been fully moved to the bill. In support of this, there are still some 800 million unbounded from the common reserve. It should be noted, however, that when we began a discussion on this budget bill, the reserve set was 1.8 billion, so it has been on and not as though it would be completed at the end of the year. It is not yet known whether the reserves of individual topics were ever used. The requirements for the use of the common reserve are the same as those given in financing. The majority feel guilty that the use of the general reserve and the urgent secretary has not yet been established to complete the case as soon as possible. A respectable president. A greater proportion of the legal committee will shoot these warning shots right at the start of the committee to draw attention to the fact that we are well aware that there are better things to go on and yet we are successful here. In terms of the main budget of the bill, it is that in accordance with the official financial laws, the primary financial contributions no longer include a comprehensive reassessment of budgets by revised income schemes and overall planning and remuneration. Instead, the focus of the bill is narrower, and only a consideration of individual tax costs, which are not considered to be included in the framework of the budget. Allegations are requested for an increase of 56.6 billion, 7% of the legal authority. This is enormous in historical context, but 49.2 billion should be explained by two factors that are closely related to the change in budget production in accordance with international accounting standards. The number is 31 billion. ... as a result of changes in pension commitments. According to the standards, all changes between the year and the year will be covered, but according to earlier statements, some of them went on to reevaluate accounts. This includes the influence of new rights processing during the year, remuneration, and all changes in insurance insurance insurance debt, such as life expectancy. The proposal thus divided into 18.6 billion is due to remuneration, but an increase in an enormous commitment of 12.4 billion. However, there are 18.2 billion due to the description of tax charges, which, for example, are incorrigibly contrary to the reimbursement of both missing documents e.g. due to bankruptcy, as well as indirect deduction with requirements of precautionary entry. This year's budget assumed that copies would be withdrawn from revenues in line with international economic standards, but according to accounting standards, tax bills are to be moved to the remuneration gate where the current tax requirements from earlier years, i.e. stress free taxes, which have been paid in previous years. The above changes have no effect on the survival of the State Fund at Article 1. budgets in which the recovery is measured according to economic standards. However, they change Leviticus. The bill in which the budgets of causes of heartburn and litigation are set up according to international accounting standards. A different degree of variation is mentioned by all of them in the table listed on page 6 of the bill. 46. On the other hand, we decided to relight the table in this committee study, perhaps primarily to illustrate the changes that are being made that are primarily, as previously attributed, technical changes, and also to indicate that there was a significant print error in the original bill that was spoken of a church meeting but was to be a church agreement. A respectable president. I don't run the details of the pill, but I continue to run what is stated in a committee study. With the exception of these modifications, a total of 8.6 billion dollars are proposed. an increase in expenses. There, the high priority in the Penitentiary of Pension Binding is in line with a contract with Iceland's Farm Association and the acceptance of the commitments of various health care organisations, a total of 3.2 billion. I allow myself to take over the pension debt marked by Iceland's Farming Association and, in short, attribute it to a long history and, in fact, extending decades into the past, the execution of a number of agricultural activities by the government in mixed funding of taxes and agricultural production and direct production of the state. The institutions and employees doing this were collecting pension rights within the state's pension system. During legal adjustments, which lead to the fact that all of this work is being carried out by direct negotiations with farmers, these commitments were actually to be made. At last, the old arrangement has been established in a fixed format with the contract that has been made at Iceland's Farm Association. I recall that up to this point, the state's budget is largely due to its share of these commitments by making pacts for farmers and the rest of the budgets by 2019, resulting in the loss of contracts made with farmers for the equivalent of the amount previously submitted to these pensional commitments, so this economic exchange between farmers and state is now complete. I think that's a lot of joy. This even appeared. In that, as strange as it is, while we had the older system, agriculture was supported by public figures and OECD comparisons always were wrong, i.e. These financial communications were expressed as support for agricultural production, which, in fact, had nothing to do with it and thus made the comparison of Icelandic agriculture. There are also proposals for several technical transfers. An example of this is the reduction in finance because of the possession of lasting funds. This is similar to the transfer made at the 3rd. The budget bill. About 700 million. K. there is an transfer on this occasion. Since 2013, the interval between these irregular joints has not been lower than the figure of budgeting. Over the years in 1998-2008, the comparable mean financial interest abnormalities were about 5% of the primary expenditures. The dramatic maintenance following the bank crash contributed to the improvement of the work force in this regard, resulting in an average of 1.6% of 2009-2016 abnormalities. In this bill, the ratio is about 0.7%, which is very low in historical context and therefore in accordance with the objective of law on public finances to minimise the magnitude of budgetary law. For this reason, it is proper to remind us that such fine results are also clarified because we have put aside a reserve in a reserve. Of course, that must be kept in mind when it comes to this comparison, and that is not to be forgotten. We have also developed a certain structure and order around it. As I said before, we remind ourselves of it, and then again, we need to be more concerned about the process. The total benefit of the Kingdom treasure is attributed to page 8. Thus, 55 at the original bill and the rest of the Kingdom Fund are 1.3% of GDP, which is only over the financial policy that had been published at that time. It may have been a little bit over what financial policy was then valid. But let's not find out. There is a 3.3% leftover on the original equation, which is considered in the historical context of a very good success in the management of state funds. As to the reevaluation of the Kingdom Fund by 2018, it is to say that although the bill is not intended to alter income or expenditure according to the outcome forecast, a reassessment of the year is still under way. Table on page 24. For example, 55 of the bill's work shows the main sizes in this topic, based on the recent Iceland's Institute of Economics, published at the beginning of November. It is expected that income and expenditure will be slightly higher than the estimated budget. The total income is estimated to be 4.4 billion higher than in budgets. Changes are for both increases and decreases. The estimated $2.3 billion is now higher than the rate of income taxation in terms of 1.5 billion. It is estimated that the income of a valuable tax will decrease by 5.9 billion, while other indirect taxes are estimated to be some 1.6 billion above the budget. The most popular abnormality consists of higher profits from Iceland and the Bank of America over a total of 7.5 billion dollars. and it's a fairly familiar skill in making budgets. It is estimated that the total budget will be nearly the same as in the budget of the year, about 0.7 billion. lower. Change is in both directions. It is estimated that the cost of operating is higher than in budgets, especially for hospital services that could be about 2.5 billion. over the budget. In addition, a number of special fees are expected to appear on the bill. These include reassessments of the food stocks, additional donations to the National Church and transport, health insurance for physical therapy, as well as other less staff that are explained in the bill's report. I don't make up much of this budget, but I'd like to mention an additional donation to the National Church. We've mentioned this in a more significant committee party, and if I recall correctly, it has also been referred to in the Committee of the Committee to My Committees, both in the development of financial programmes and budgets of the previous years, in which treaties with the National Church are discussed. As shown in an inquiry session earlier today, we have discussed the budgets we recently carried away with good hopes that negotiations with the National Church for the future of these contributions will be improved to the next budget so that we no longer take it through financial contributions that we may not, in effect, consider to be a good start. On the contrary, less interest payments are expected to be $3.3 billion. This explains 1.4 billion due to the altered production of interest revenues in Part A of the State Fund, which includes a reduction in interest revenues and interest expenditures. Under the law on public finances, any interest in interest will be gained unless there are special laws. Only on the work of the Committee. She had a very short time to learn more about the unique suggestions of the bill. Nevertheless, they were called in by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, Department of Health, Justice, Education and Culture, and Department of Transport and Division. Only one active work day was given to respond, yet all of the problems received answers and thanked the committee for the quick response of the employers. The committee considered why counseling had not been sufficient to prevent a proposal for the budgetary bill, as well as the obtaining of various statistical data that were useful in evaluating the rightfulness of individual options. All these answers and data are now available in the paediatric population. It's a legal committee. Then we'll come up with some adjustments. The bill proposes a license to repay 500 million to Iceland. In this context, a greater portion's opinion is pointed out to the 3rd. The 2019 budget for which the matter was covered in detail was discussed in a special discussion that took place earlier today. The greater part makes several adjustments to the bill, and it specifically explains each of them in that section, except what a common discussion of a few transitions and corrections is. A total of these are developers, all of which lead to 248.1 million. K. an increase of dues to disintegration 1 in the bill. The increase has a corresponding effect on paragraphs 1 and 2. The bill. Correction is due to a reduction in sectoral income due to a new payment system. Some 300 million suggestions are made. K. 11 joints. On May 1, 2017, a new health - care system went into effect. The main objective of the system is to protect those most in need of health care for high expenses, reduce the expenses of children's families, and strengthen health care as the first site of health care. The system is an equation system that includes relief from those in the older system, while those who paid at least a favor were at greater cost. By bringing in the new payment system, the decision was to increase the government donations for subsidies on the part of a patient of 1.5 billion per year. The contribution of health - care insurance to health care dropped at that rate. Under the new system, the services of health care and hospitals and the services of independent operating doctors, physical therapists, occupational therapists and speech pathologists work under the contract of Iceland's Medical Insurance and Research and Radiographs. The maximum pay varies depending on whether general users, disability, the elderly or the children are involved. The maximum pay per month for a general user in 2018 is 25,100 k. By enforcing the new payment system, they expected 1.5 billion bonuses for the state funds, 250 billion. K. on medical expenses, 950 million. K. ... ona team of training and 300 million. K. a reduction in the number of individual clinics. A reduction in the number of clinics was found to be less than 390 million. The budget was saved to the health insurance team. Medical costs and training have been raised, and this puts a total of 300 million. K. transfer from health insurance to meet the reduction of specialised areas in the clinic. Then there are some adjustments to the economic exchange of documents that I don't specifically run, but here are four more legal proposals that I plan to make a brief explanation of. First of all, there is an increase of funds to the Council, which is made clear in the vastest part due to unscheduled expenditures due to repairing a home on Church Street 10, where the mold was introduced, which was inevitable to attack on repairs. A host was asked to evaluate and make offers for the project, but when it began, it was found that the project was far more extensive than expected and doubled the estimated total cost. That's what they want for 30 million. K. extra reserves where there is no room for business to meet these costs. We make adjustments in terms of investment agreements with Alga Life, due to the so-called training program, 137.9 million. K. The Department of Professional Road and Development will now consider the training of the company's employees. After this change in our proposal, there is the work and research of the Ministry of Employment and Development on the terms of the agreement on this matter. This suggests a contract of 79.9 million. K. contributes to the Workout Fund due to collections of post-final revenues in 2017. According to the Eco-efficiency Act, No. 162/2002, the income of recycling will go strictly to the fund, with the exception of the administrative fee for the state's funds. As the law was introduced on public financial matters, the change was made to make money a trust fund and to fund funds in return. However, similar changes in recycling laws were not made, as was done in most other citizens. A final solution is still being worked so as to allow income from recycling to go into the state's budget but at the same time ensures that collections will flow to the Calculus Fund, as the law allows. There was no proposal in the bill for a budget, since the matter was still being developed. Then time has improved, and this adjustment is made to a greater proportion of the budgetary committee here at 2nd. that is 79.9 million. K. A greater proportion of the legal committee may then be suggested to change the way they are carried on to the National Theatre, which considered the greater part of the procedure to be that the money should be placed primarily by reserves, not as a budget end up closely related to a tiara agreement and should be the primary part of a large reserve fund to cover such expenditures. Then there are two codices for the development of the New Year Magnús in Icelandic studies due to a demonstration in connection with the sovereignty anniversary of borrowing sensitive, valuable, and remarkable manuscripts from our cousins Dana for show. It was necessary to build around them or to put these treasures in special display cabinets so that extra reserves are requested to cover their expenses and then to become closets owned by the Aarhus. After contracts had been made with the owners of the scrolls, there was a much greater demand for the preparation of the scrolls and then security for these gems, which called for a suggestion that the cost would be met with a sum of 25.3 million. K. The greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the refinement and proposed in a special Senate document. Under the count of Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, who? Chairman of the Board of Shepherds, Haraldur Benediktsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdótttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Páll Magnússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you something. A senator's comments are found in the review of the President's Reconnaissance of the Fund, where funds are spoken according to the reserves and the like. The review says: ▪ Following the previous examples of increased funds to cover expenses that are hard to detect are temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable within the budget year, and could not have responded with the other instruments specified in the law... It refers to a reserve and the transfer of funds within a case, but it can also be taken as an example of 30 C.E. the law on public financial matters, which is simply taken up by the next year's budget, which is missing there. A public review also speaks of the decision whether appropriate measures should be taken, i.e. (b) What questions remain to be answered? (b) What will be considered in the following article? Then we have a little problem saying, "Who will determine whether or not the requirements of the law are met? " If it's just political, are we in the lesser part of this? Isn't that on political terms, too? it is easy to ask. Is it not, in fact, a general assembly that is supposed to be fixed on the brakes and be hard on how government law is going to work? We're making these laws for us, and especially for the execution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. In all basics, we are on the same line with how complicated this project can be at any given time. I'm not going to disqualify myself because there are some things that can be thrown into political light and everything we do is controversial, but we call in our majority wing, that there are still no regulations for the application of the common reserve and then the handling of a reserve class of lawsuits. They know why. A senator, just like us. This has been our assignment in the past. The budget to discuss these factors. We have some examples of what have caused bickering in recent years regarding the treatment of reserves, treatment of legal reserves, and so on. The main line is, what? A senator, that we've made a lot of progress here, and here we have an unusual variation that we're dealing with on this additional bill, which I particularly welcome. However, it does not stop at any point from using this possibility, since this budget is still available and funds are still in the law, which, hopefully, will be used primarily as a total emergency measures when things get more firm and we start driving the laws from the firm they contain. There's a lot of things to say about these new songs, but I think that in any of the main things, financial support and financial management are the most effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u6	A respectable president. Yes, there will be regulations yet to be set, but it will always be framed by the laws that are set on unexpected expenses and such. Whatever the Regulation may be, we would never allow beyond the definition clearly stated in the law. For the firm, ask: Why are we giving off the conditions when the law has been established? The protocol is likely to explain the work process better on how the decision is made, whether these are unexpected expenses or such, but the definition of unexpected activity did not move as such. I find it hard to see what Regulation is adding to the yes or no question. As a result, we can consider whether or not legal procedures were set up. Thanks, too. A senator for pointing out that the ratio is 0.7% after the entire billions of people in a fixed correction form, etc. Hv. A senator showed that the use of reserves must be counted into this missing proportion of 0.7%. This adds up to nearly a percent, which is now in the average 2009-2016 season. In the historical context, we are doing the same thing as since 2009 when it actually started, and there was no amount of money that only draws the average down. Otherwise, it might be a little over it. We haven't finished, we still have funds on the reserves, and considering the official financial laws, we're supposed to go to the budget after the reserves have been passed. I wanted a guess. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u7	A respectable president. I don't have much to add. I mentioned this with the reserve and the variation from the current budget because I think it's fair that we put it in context but I also just want to frame it back in, as I did in my story, that we can't quite compare it. We have now put this caution device into the laws that were not there in the past, since it was a mere payment. Now is not the case, and that's why I'm saying it's a good result with 0.7% of the variation to be thought of. When we began our discussion at the council and then on the Committee on the budget bill, the general reserve was 1.8 billion. He was down to 800 million when we finished the case, showing that the funds were worth the effort, so it was equally careful not to finish before the budget was submitted. I think it's time to discuss the future, whether or not we should get up to the procedure that the general reserve is emptied before the budget is due. It is only a healthy discussion that we normally need to review on the fine laws we perform. On the other hand, I did evaluate it so that a review of this financial bill would not be decisive in putting out the treatment or suggestions of these budgets, unless it was less than that. It was not very decisive, but I think that respect for the work that exists at any given time -- I recall that, as I mentioned in my history, came into the government of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, in the middle of a summer, that additional funds were taken for transport, and then there was a little fog in how to handle it. [[The president calls.]] Then it was done again in the present government, but in all the basics, the project has become so much better than it once was, pretending I have an excellent knowledge to be able to say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u8	A respectable president. The law on public finances states that 30 C.E. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: This year's budget will be reduced from next year's budget. Despite the fact that a number of budgets are over our budgets, funds and funds from the public reserve are put in place instead of giving up $30. law on public finances works. The requirement to address the general reserve is very strict and clearly stated that these conditions should be interpreted narrowly. The requirement is temporary, unpredictable, and unavoidable, since it has not been possible to deal with them by means of government laws, including the activation of 30. g. The law so that oversaves will simply be withdrawn from next year's financial resources. It is noteworthy that despite tens of millions of financial contributions bill and budgets from a general reserve, there is no one, not one, abandoned and withdrawn from next year's financial resources. A review of The State Accounting complains of a short time to enter a review, but in spite of that, it gives a comprehensive review of the Kingdom Ministry. How sad it is to think of what kind of review the Council would have received if the deadline had been normal! A government review review review review reviews the sources suggested to turn into a bill for financial support and evaluate that most of them are subject to some exceptions, then by permission of the president: ▪ Following the previous examples of increased funds to cover expenses that are difficult to deal with, temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable within the budget, and that could not have been handled by other instruments specified in the law, such as financial reserves and transfers within the seminars. An example of this is 83.3 billion. K. raise the budget of the topic field 04.10 Foreign Service and foreign management; 29.7 billion. K. Because of 10,30 Pirates; 45.8 billion. K. for two projects under the 1130 Department of Transport; 469 million. K. Because of 2430 physical therapy, practice and speech training; and 267 billion. K. ... duetothe32:30SecretService Management Board. These are just examples, not a complete list of things I do even. an article in the future. On the basis of the official financial law, the process is in some way this way in terms of the budget: If the pre-running motive is not temporary, not unpredictable, and not inevitable, the forward drive will simply be forced from next year's financial resources. A minister can respond by means of transfers and reserves and is a condition that is very well explained in the law. However, if all the conditions of the general reserve are met, the reserve may be used to manage the expenses, even if it is not forequated, but it may be expected that expenses would lead to an excess run on the budget at the end of the year. i.e. if there were unexpected expenses that would certainly fall under all items of reserve, and these expenditures would not lead to the need for a relevant budget in the minus of the year at the end of the year, it would not have to be taken up by general reserves, although it could and could be justified by the law. Even if expenses were unexpected, temporary, and unpredictable, there would be no basis for resorting to financial resources. It is not until the general reserve is raised that needs financial support. They depend on the same strict restrictions as the general reserve, so expenses provided in the bill for funding must meet all the requirements that can be applied to the general reserve. The first few smaller items requested support for the financial resources discussed in the bill for financial support were narrow conditions given by the government laws on public finances. A few answers were received, but the evidence is that the funds requested are at best thin in most cases. It is very sad that the World Health Organization cannot be consulted to determine whether public finance law is being passed, but it says exactly in its review, by permission of a president: It's a 24th story. law on public financial matters is the minister who decides on the provision of the general reserve and to see if the requirements of the law are met. - Of course, because the Minister is to abide by the law, he has no choice. It is thus a political decision to make arrangements for the reserves and questionable that it is in the power of a government accountant to evaluate or reevaluate. It can also be noted that a state accountant does not have a basis to determine whether the requirements of the law are met in terms of contributions to road work where the office has not received a summary of the projects intended with the reserve money. It hasn't had a budget either. Besides, with President's permission: ▪ In fact, it is questionable that this might be the role of a government accountant, as previously said. The political authority has considered some of the funds that are considered inevitable, and a state accountant has no more information or anything other than a minister and after an incident with the World Council Fund. This is a core problem in which the funds requested, both in terms of the reserve, how a financial committee is made aware or not told what the measures are, despite the fact that the evidence that has come so far has not been able to meet the critical opinion that there is an inevitable, temporary, or unexpected budget. To date, very few of the questions raised to the Ministry have been answered clearly so that the conditions are clearly clear. These conditions should be interpreted narrowly. Then you would think that if something made a disrepute, it would not be interpreted lightly if it was then granted. I'm going to cover the church meeting, but from 1997 it is stated in Article 3. The contract that the state fund pays: a. Iceland's Bishop and a Pentecostal bishop b. 138 active priests and the most advanced National Church. c. 18 staff of the Bishop. Also stated in the contract, by permission of the President: A record of 5,000 members of the National Church of America, on December 1, 1996, is committed by the State to pay 1 more than that of the b-jords of 1 priest. The same is true of further growth. The number of registered members of the National Church is about 5,000 based on the national registry on December 1, 1996, reduces the figure to b-jords 1. c. 1st So if plus 5,000 goes up 138 to 139, if minus 5,000 drops 138 to 137, etc. However, the financial and economic situation's answer to the Board's inquiry is presented by the President's permission: A fund to the National Church shall be studied with the amount of money that corresponds to the pay of the bishops of Iceland and the initiation bishops, the 138 active priests, and the highest test of the National Church, as determined by the Board of Elders and the remuneration of 18 personnel of the Bishop's office. However, the Office's website contains data on the number of registered members of the National Church: By 1998, 244,893 enrolled in the National Church, and 2018 are 234,215. According to this, since 1998 the number of enrolled members of the National Church has decreased by more than 10,000. Hence, in view of the church meeting, the salary of 136 priests should be paid, not 138. Unfortunately, the Lab's data cannot go further in this regard. The church meeting, however, is obviously very flawed, since there is no time limit on how long the State should pay the bishops, priests, and others according to the agreement. The answer we ask about what good things the Kingdom received in return has been simple: The Kingdom does not know. It is obvious that this agreement is very bad for the State and that it is questionable whether it will pass laws on the agreement or articles on legal rights. Based on the practice of accepting documents afterwards, the evidence can be reasoned that if the General doesn't approve this budget, the General Assembly will cancel the contract. A smaller portion is considered ideal for the state to try to break the contract and to be determined by the courts for the property and land of the church and the value of the church. It would simply be possible to reconcile the amount of pay paid for the agreement of some 42 billion and the value of the earth and find out how much difference is made. It is impossible to believe that the State should pay to the Church of America into the infinite. In fact, in view of the agreement, the State would have to pay about 80 priests, even though everyone spoke out of the National Church, which is even more strange. At the church committee's conclusion, I recall that its name, dated 1992 or 1993, does not quite remember the year, is compiled into all church property, is reviewed by real estate evaluations, and other things on that earth. It's a pretty big document, inside there's like... The realms of Congress, and at the end of that document, are summed up in the amount of property of the church. I think all of these assets were considered to be about 2 billion. While the church's share is about 1 billion years. on that price. If we were simply to make multiple changes, then the person who is a rough thumb - determine what value would be now, it might remember something, would be about 2 billion for the whole, about 3 billion for a share of the church. It is far from equal to 42 billion. I'd like to say a few words about the budget policy. The Ministry of Economics suggests a change in the bill for budgets that are difficult to reason on. A financial committee suggests some additional changes that can also provide questions for whether they meet the criteria. Based on the review of Government Accounting, a secretary's job is to determine whether to use a reserve or to provide a bill for financial management, a financial committee must be in charge to determine whether the laws on public finances are met. It has to be stated as it is that such evaluations were not carried out in the Committee, and by this it actually sets the precedent for interpreting conditions for the use of public reserves and funds, examples that the conditions apply only when convenient in the case of the 2018 year are never applicable. The requirements never apply. No sources exceed our authority and are withdrawn from next year's financial resources because they are provided with reserves and funds. A minister will never have to answer for overwork of funds. Secretary's legal rights are arranged by a whitewash that has gone out of the way of public financial legislation. The whitewash is that historically speaking, there was no payment. That's what's written in history, it all came out at zero or in plus. The method used is simply not legal. It is often immoral, but it is illegal. A smaller portion begs for an apology that these words are not spoken in a more diplomatic way because a smaller portion of 1st feels that it simply needs to be as clear as possible to prevent misunderstandings. If it was Generals' intention to establish a government law on government finance, it must have been the intention of the council to comply with that law. The authority to do so is not to have any options, nor should the council. If this is to be done differently, the Council will have the legal authority and can only change the law if the existing arrangement is insurmountable. That is why I say, 'Funishly.' My first part suggests that any budget proposed in the bill for financial contributions and not subject to the conditions of public finance will be removed from the bill. That's my explanation for the conversion of 1st small part to a bill for financial support, with a 1st minor share, I think all the numbers there are not met by the laws on public finances on temporary, inevitable, or unexpected expenses. So I suggest that they simply drop down and withdraw from next year's financial resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u9	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to cover the 2018 budget, and I'll measure my share. In the beginning, I'd like to say that in comments to the bill, financial contributions will only be obtained to deal with expenses that were inaccessible to financial contributions but show that expenses fall into the year and that government funds cannot avoid paying them. The law should therefore only be unexpected and inevitable expenses. My share of information suggests that various sources in the bill are contrary to the principle of this law, and after this, I will specify some of the examples of this principle. First, I want to back up what is stated on page 20. 47 on the bill. It says that because of the increase in demand for physical therapy, the cost of health insurance is increasing by 469 million. This is much more than an expenditure, but it has not been determined whether the members of the seminar have taken some action in order to cover the budget. The minister's law on public financial matters should take action when it comes to showing that the legal case he is responsible for is exceeding financial authority. Under these circumstances a minister of finance should have made clear the situation and the way he consented to it. The minister is responsible for the case and must take action. The rules are to respect them, and failure to take action is not in harmony with official financial laws. Next thing you know, I'm going to step up to the IPSAS account account standard that is discussed on page 2. 46 on the bill. It shows that some 48 billion dollars. an increase is due to this accounting status. This is a substantial amount of money, and it cannot be seen that the case can really be regarded as unpredictable. The Ministry should have anticipated this when the IPSAS standard was taken up with the public financial legislation. This is a large correction, and in view of a lower share of the budget for 2018, this factor was to be applied to the implementation of the IPSAS standard. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that it can remember thousands of dollars of dollars in the stock of the state depending on whether the recovery is measured according to the GFS or IPSAS account account standard. In view of my second degree, it is inappropriate for senators to be confronted with a solution such as this in evaluating the mismanagement of state funds. This is a very technical solution for which very few people really are in control, and it is urgent that they be sought to simplify this presentation so that the necessary information can be obtained from a public account for players in a accessible way. In this regard, for example, a state accountant did not trust to give the opinion of the previous year's state account in which the full implementation of the due accounting standards has not been completed. Since a specialist in this field, then a Government Accounting, does not trust to express the opinion of government taxation, which is the annual bill, it is almost impossible for players to do so. In view of my second least, this situation is of great concern to the Council. Next time, I'd like to go to court. This is shown on page 22. Forty-five million dollars. K. due to court order. Then you can ask if it would have been normal here to transfer general precautions based on the IPSAS standard due to the potential loss of judicial cases. Former currency would then be a professional assessment of the potential losses caused by judicial cases, where professionals in this field will then evaluate potential effects on financial resources. On page 18. 47 discusses the handling of pension bonds. It shows that there are agreements with various organizations due to the review of the debt of pensions between employees who have health care for the state's funds. The cost is about 100 million. K. And it is sobering to think about why the Ministry allowed these priceless commitments to accumulate. Why has the Ministry not paid a tax as far as the service is concerned? In this regard, it may be suggested that at the end of 2017, the debt of Pension at the end of 2017 was 619 billion, which is equal to the government's tax pay under the bill for budgeted by 2018, so we can see that this is a substantial amount of money. Thus, the amount of money of total tax money has been rolled over to future generations. It must also be noted that the length of the agreement for the Bridges of Pension was reduced because of the unregistered Penitentiary of Pension bonds, but the sum is 1.2 billion. Mr. President. Next time, I'm just going to step aside to a winter service. The bill shows that transport expenses up to 569 million are at the expense of budgeting, of which 400 are due to snowstorm. I think it's reasonable to think that financial resources due to an unforeseen snowstorm are in a particular legal reserve. The response to the Department of Transport with a panel asking about the cost of unusually heavy winters said that the service team is funded only for average winter. At the same time, it has been necessary in recent years to increase winter service as a result of high - traffic increases in the number of tourist routes, the demand for high - quality protection has been far greater than expected, and the winters were heavy in all other parts of the country. In view of 2 lower points, the Ministry's comments seem to indicate that due to the increased demand for snowstools and shark control, it is not practical to focus on the average cost of the past years because the requirements for this service have increased substantially and would be reasonable to aim for plans aimed at predicting the quality of the road model's service to the future. The next question is, Did this charge have been needed for financial aid, and it would have almost been necessary to plan for it in financial matters? Next, I'm only going to do what is shown about the delay in the delivery of the Western Islands and the defects of repairing the Giorese vector. The delay of the delivery of a Western island transporter is 117 million. K. and the bill does not reveal who is responsible for the delay. It appears that funding funds are required to finance expenses that seem to fall according to the bill's explanation for a decision made by the Ministry. Thus, it cannot be seen that this decision meets the requirements that must be met in order to obtain contributions. This is, in effect, a new decision made by the Ministry and should be handled by self-repeated, I'll let myself say, as the government's law on government matters and the Ministry is required to follow through. So there is the decision to delay the delivery of this process, and there is something that cannot be expected when such a decision is made. The financial and economic minister could not answer that in this case at 1st. Who is responsible for the delay, and it has to be said that this is something that must be added to because this is the highest amount, and it's not natural for humans to make such a decision, and then ask for money and that the case is finished. It's not in the spirit of the law at all. I'll only take them to the expense of repairing them at the Gímur Islands Center. That's 52 million. K. and it is attributable to inadequate repairs between 2007 and 2008. This case parallels the case with the new Western island in a way that does not reveal the responsibility. The lack of supervision on the State Department, of course, requires answers to questions as to whether the State's monitoring system will prevent such a recurrence. Next time, I'd like to step on foreign expense. That's what's been discussed here before, and there's a difference of opinion. The response of the Ministry of Justice to a panel asking on the cost of foreigners reveals an overall budget of 3,188 million. K. Before 2018, including 500 million. K. ... aapplicationof allusion. Of course, this is a substantial amount. This category is costly, and it must be required to require the Ministry to minimise this cost, as can best be done by strengthening the procedure used to aim for the average treatment period of candidates, e.g. due to Drill treatment, shorter. It's 111 days now. Standard treatment period is 226 days and must also be shortened. This is a very long time and expense for a government fund. Of course, it is also awkward for those waiting for their release. It is therefore necessary, Mr. President, to seek all ways to minimize the expense of this group of paintings. I hereby challenge a minister to revise this process so that candidates with particularly unfounded residence applications will not stay here anymore, but it is absolutely necessary. The metal party is costly, as I said earlier, and all of us are to agree to seek ways to reduce these costs, but in the same way those who seek help and take refuge in the right way and to take care of the right treatment. It takes way too long, and I think everyone agrees on it. I'm just going to take part in what the bill says on the EU Framework Programme for Education, Research, etc. There's a budget of 491 million. K. and it shows that it is an agreement. It is hard to see how treatable expenses can be unexpected and unpredictable. There is, of course, a lower estimate that such things do not belong in budgets beyond normal punctuations. Then, in the bill, we see that new projects are interpreted as unpredictable, there is much to tell about these topics. There are several other expenditures, except 1,080 million, and under this point there are a number of expenses not unexpected or unpredictable and therefore not to be financed. Under this team of deposit bonds of 1,080 million. K. reminds me that I am a contribution to the State Department for passport control in India and passport publishing in India and in the United States. It has to be said right now that this is the case with a very uncertain country of India because what lies ahead for this group is connected to the very flight society of Wow air to India. As we know, this is in considerable uncertainty now, so this document may not be new. I'd like to come by and see if you'd like to come on page five. 59 discusses the reevaluation of sensibilities and eutrophication. So there are non-new financial warrants. With regard to the GDP, it's about 2 billion dollars. and there's a reevaluation of the growth reforms of 1 billion. The reassessment means that these are the amounts that were scheduled for the seminary but that did not go out. In view of many complex housing problems, especially young people, 2. The above reevaluation of growth is to be considered to show that the growth reform system does not serve its purpose. I have previously traced it from this platform that the growth reform system has reduced the number of people divided by thousands to a new interest fund today because the decrease in the proportion has not been accompanied by an increase in the value of real estate. It is obvious that this system is severely weighed. I encourage the government to meet the first apartment buyers with the money that has not been used to the seminary, as it was decided. Next thing I'd like to do, I'd just step back to the design of the Unsolved Emergency Land Hospital. The bill shows that there is an increase in the hospital because of this problem at 2.5 billion dollars. which will be expected to take action to manage it. Of course, this is a substantial amount of money, but the problem is not new, and it has to be said, as it is, that the government has failed to cope with this crisis with no solution. The problem has been known for years, as I say. There is no real solution. It will only be seen that this problem will only increase, and we look forward to an additional budget every year to solve it with an enormous overtime effort at the Land Hospital. In the bill, a donation is implemented for home-in monitoring. That's a little vague. It is noted that there is a contribution of 29.7 million to support home monitoring. Of course, the subject is good, but the processing of the bill did not take time to obtain a more precise explanation for financing, so it is not possible to determine whether or not these segments belong in a budget. This is certainly a new assignment, but the bill's caption could have been more revealing in this regard. I'm about to finish my case, Mr. President, but I'd like to come into the hospital for a second. The expensive structure we know stands empty, the hospital stands empty, and while patients are staying in public hotels at the expense of the state funds. This subject is discussed on page 19. 72 on the bill. It shows that the hospital opened the hospital opening, so it has to be purchased from other hotels by about 40 million. K. A lower portion of it criticizes that this expensive hospital hotel as a state fund should remain unusable for as long as 40 million. K. is reserved for financial gains at the same public service of hotels. I'd like to step in to what the government says about the transfer of the U.S. National Insurance Agency. On page 18. The budget of 2,75,28.5 million, is discussed. K. ... becauseof the transfer of the government's insurance agency to Kopavog due to mold at the facility. I think we're dealing with a problem that was known, so I should have been in the budget for 2018 or 2018. Only on transport and the provision of a general reserve. On page 18. In the bill, 45 is listed as $3.65 billion for important road projects. In the bill, the government has decided to set aside funds from general reserves for repair and implementation on the highways of the country. No unexpected or unpredictable effects on the condition of the road system can be seen in general. Over the years, the media and politicians have pointed out that the road system is in a condition that is growing worse and worse. Transport should, of course, be in the best condition and I'm not criticizing it, but for this expense it should have been estimated to be in the budget where nothing unexpected or unpredictable is in the road system that has been neglected for years, and it's becoming worse and worse if it is not maintained. We know that. The government should respect the instructions given in Article 24. track No. 123/2015 that a standard primary reserve is only allowed to handle temporary, unpredictable expenses, inevitable, and cannot be handled in any other way according to the law. It is also critical that the Minister has not adequately identified the use of the budget, since the committee has not been given information on which roads to attack. Finally, Mr. President, the Central Party believes that funding should only be used in emergencies in which reserves have taken the role of funding. Clearly, there is a big mistake that the bill is in harmony with laws that apply to it, and I secondly confirm that it is important that these measures be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u10	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For the record of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, more than two o'clock. The budget board. I'm going to leave a question, but first, I'm going to get to what I plan to do. A senator said at the end of his history on the provision of general funds and transportation. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator on anything that has to do with 24. legal on public finances and the provision of the general reserve, to address temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses. I'm going to refer to a leading man more than that, OK? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who gave a story on behalf of the greater part, was well aware that it was out of Regulation under 67.g. The laws on public financial matters, where the Minister shall issue a Regulation for the further implementation of their laws, including the reserve of the product. The question, then, points to the question, "What's the problem? " In view of the fact that we have gone further on a provision from the general reserve and have been called to the top of the budget, a senator does not agree with me. Secretary of the budget, the highest. The secretary of transportation and the Road Building and repeatedly called upon the opinion of the State Reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the body and the chairman of the legal committee agree wholeheartedly with him. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson made an announcement earlier. I cut by and thank you for bringing it in. We agree on these things, and it is urgent that we make progress in the way these laws work. Hence, it is important not to post tasks that obviously do not belong there. I can mention the funds, it seems that there are certain projects that can be overlooked in some way, and then you can always think like, " Yes, well, we've got it all figured out. I'm just gonna mention one example I didn't come up with in my speech, called finderal Project, about 20 million. K. It's meant to be a trust fund. It's coming through the fundraiser. I specifically asked about this on the Committee when the Ministry was at a meeting of the Committee. Then it was made clear that it was something that had just been put in there, so there is a certain releaser in my opinion that all of us on the committee need to make a little effort not to apply.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u12	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator who wants to reiterate that I was not in any way in reducing the excellent criticism that appeared in history. A senator and his opinion. On the contrary, I'm going to say that this is our collective project on the budget, that we should monitor the European Commission, and that we should maintain it. Now we need to make up for what is lacking with the tools we have. That's why I wanted to draw it here that I think the committee did a good job at going through this process. I was going to mention a second act that had come into the table somewhere. The financier's as good as any. A senator mentioned at the beginning of his speech, the extra charge for physical therapy. This has come into the budget and has been made available to the committee in the past. There is a great demand for a professional physical therapist to link the roof of the patient's payment program to a reduction and others to see the possibility of attending this service. I thought it might be short in speech. The senator, who now has the contracts, is committed to contracts, is running through the seasons, yet he would like to state that there is some very positive news coming out of this. Based on evidence, a reduction of musculoskeletal disorders in those treated with 75% of energy assessments is more pronounced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, I agree with him that physical therapy is very important, and we should endeavor to help those who have it most challenging. It is for the good of society. My primary point of criticism is that it is nearly half a billion that needs to be laid out. That's a lot of money. Then I refer, under the laws on public finances and the responsibilities of the seminaries, to the fact that financial rights are greatly exceeded, he must take action under the law and try to control it in order to minimize the pre-running procedure that can be performed. I think there must be some sort of link between financial minister and welfare minister, that they will settle over the situation and, above all, can be estimated in financial terms, that they do not always have to come in the money. Somehow, the opportunity is given to avoid taking the matter seriously in my own hands. We must not forget that it is a minister who is responsible for the seminaries and, as I said before, that the rules are to respect them. There is no law against taking any action.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. But I still think it's inevitable to respond to some of the points he asked about because I think there's an explanation for the discussion. First of all, the question was: A senator for unexpected expenses. We argue in itself over the subject, whether expenses are unexpected, but he mentioned here some factors that I feel are necessary to answer. First, the cost of the State Ministry is for passports and the system that needs to be built around the current Indian flight. We can then have all our opinions about their future. I hope it's going well, and I think it would be extremely important for us to be able to get us on that market, end up in a huge nation, and there's a lot of opportunities for the tourism. That's 45 million falling. K. Because private companies decide to initiate a flight to this location, they might be wondering, " Is this not exactly the case with unexpected expenses? ' There is a situation that needs to be addressed, and that is why these investments will be attacked at 45 billion. K. Another show that's cool. In his background, a senator mentioned that he felt unsurpassed on the basis of housekeeping. There is an transfer from the Ministry of Employment to Justice and the county for that surveillance of 29.7 billion. K. So it is by nature not additional costs but by means of financial contributions. I'd like to talk about other projects and the development of expenses. A senator in his second stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer and the inquiry are made by a senator. We can discuss this with the passport version. I don't think it was an instant decision to pick up a straight flight to India. But I completely agree with what. Of course, a senator is an important project. Hopefully, it's going well and it's about to go on for an indefinite time because there's a huge opportunity to fly straight from Iceland to India. Travel service will benefit, and all those associated with that sector will benefit, so I agree with it. A senator says it's important. I still think men should have anticipated this a little. The license of passports was before this project came into existence, so it's something I think it should have been under budget. I believe men should have before anticipated an increase. I'll thank you. A senator for explaining the surveillance of homemaking and the fact that this is an intermediary. It's fine that it shows up here because it was a little vague about how the pot was finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u16	Mr. President. What we might be able to add to this discussion, as soon as I thank you for the answer. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, is that what we could add to the provision of reserves and contributions is, and I think it may be difficult to cover, real positions on funds, how much is over the year, and took from the next year's funds. I think it's important that we take it in the financial discussion that there are many examples. In fact, we're hiding a little bit from our work on budgets, but in the budget, it was permitted to cross New Year's events, i.e. The next year's budget is covered, and we don't have an overview of it. You must not forget that mail when you criticize the fact that the race exists and responds by means of financial contributions and by means of increased financial resources. It's not. We have good knowledge that contributions are far greater than included in a financial bill. I think we'll agree on that, everyone sitting in bed. Legal committees, gradually underlining the conditions. This too is happening. We can see this very clearly on this budget bill, which is at least some of the interest we have seen in paying for a long time. Then we must also assume that we have been engaged in quite a major political instability and have jumped between governments. Sadly, divorce has not always been good. Without any traces of criticism, it is just facts and projects that we deal with. Not to be overlooked in the discussion of funds is the fact that there are quite a number of examples of what are being brought between the years in which the next year's funding is being handled, which is the true nature of budget management under these new laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u17	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's honor. I can agree with a lot of what he said. To add what he said here, I think the job on the Committee is fine. The committee has made good progress, and I think it is urgent that we agree to withdraw from sources to funds. I think that's what we're all going to do and be a normal, good workman. Nevertheless, I was particularly impressed that when the Ministry of finance came to the Committee to meet with the press that the structure, as you say, seems to be within the Ministry to be able to offer only requests for a financial committee and that it should be approved. If there are some expenditures in which people see that they are unable to install in some way or to develop new projects that are being seen, etc. I sense this thought from the executive council that the funds can be taken. I may be wrong, but that's how I feel. This was especially evident to me in one of the projects I mentioned earlier, the findland project, but, of course, we committees are supposed to agree to improve this and to reduce financial resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u18	Madam President. I must admit that I am among the members of the council who had hoped that the money this was about, that by the law of public finance, we would have dealt with this habit by installing a special general financial reserve. I'm afraid that hasn't really happened. What I'm sorry about this, both this year's funds and even less money for this same government a year ago, is that it seems to be just the same as before, that the space created in the survival of a government fund, especially during times of high-prication when income turns out to be a little more than expected in financial terms, is just as badly spent in financial funds. Then there are some projects that will at the same time create a set and more space for the next year's budget and that will not have to be spent on the budget of the next year. I'm afraid this work isn't changing. When I look at the budgets involved here, and I certainly am setting aside technical changes, such as pension bonds and changing the handling of tax charges, I'm still around the end of my life. 8 billion bucks. Which I can't see well enough to stand 26. the terms of their access to funds. I think most of these things, if not all of them, would simply have been allowed to fit into the 2019 budget instead of bringing them on the budget for 2018. If we take it together with the general reserve, which is, of course, supposed to address the inevitable, we need to bear in mind that this government made the decision for my year to spend a large part of this general reserve for new projects, in our road system. It is a challenge, but we might ask ourselves: " Would it not have been possible to make a decision to postpone other tasks or to move money around? It wasn't done. Then let us ask ourselves, " What does that involve? ' it's a government law. It says: If necessary, a secretary is allowed to look for additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to cope with the resources specified in these laws. Can we, on the budget board, have reasonable conviction that these requirements are met? There was really no time for a financial committee to discuss this. Information on these expenditures and their logical support were extremely limited for the committee to evaluate this. It is true, though, that despite the short time we were given to review the case, very limited guests, the sole representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs came before the committee, it is good to remember that the Government Accounting Study received a review of the subject. " By permission of the President, " says a review of the People's Accounting: It can be said of a bill as such that it does not change the total financial resources of individual sources but, rather, most of the changes are due to an transfer from one category to another, or within a number of languages, such as between contributions and shifts. However, there are examples of increased funds to cover expenses that are difficult to detect, temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable within the budget, and that could not be handled with other legal resources, such as financial reserves and legal transfers. An example of this is 83.3 billion. K. raise the budget of the topic field 04.10 Foreign Service and foreign management; 29.7 billion. K. Because of 10,30 Pirates; 45.8 billion. K. for two projects under the 1130 Department of Transport; 469 million. K. Because of 2430 physical therapy, practice and speech training; and 267 billion. K. ... duetothe32:30SecretService Management Board. Therefore, I was amazed to see not a single word about it in the committee list of parts. This statement is not mentioned, nor is it ignored in the opinion of the State Accounting. I find this to be critical, because here I think it's just government Accounting to point out that we're not following the law with this kind of money. In fact, a greater proportion of the legal committee is improved by adding additional proposals for spending that I have not, nor have I seen evidence support for how to fit into the above laws on public finances. I'm sorry that the government law on public financial matters was intended to discipline the money. For discipline to be maintained or really to be present, we must respect and sharpen the basics outlined in the Law. The fundamental points referred to in 26 C.E. ............................ what conditions meet with increased expenses and how to use reserve reserves are extremely important to the future, so that we are really evading from the habit of life that will not be managed in any other way. I'm just going to state here that for the Committee, there was no evidence to support any other means of dealing with these expenditures, whether they had been completely inevitable at this point, whether they had been transferred to the next budget year, and if they had not been allowed to adjust in some way. I'm just saying there's no way to say that these extras are in line with 26. track No. 123/2015, on official financial matters, especially when it's looked into a state of retrospect to criticize this in its polite way, I would say, very harsh. There is no answer to that criticism in members of the committee's list. I'm sorry. I think we must look to how we will continue to shape this arrangement as we look forward to the use of a reserve. The same criticism has been made about the use of reserves, whether or not his host is in the frame of government funds or not, but if this is to be a practice, that the reserve reserve is spent in the posets, his own decisions for growth within the framework of the general reserve and new budgets of the minister, and then came to the council and asked for additional funds to deal with the inevitable, it is very sobering. Perhaps it would be much better just to take out a general reserve. Then let's keep up with the money, because the methodology that is here brought up by the government, to take e.g. Independent decisions on increased funding to Vega without making the slightest attempt to meet them in any way other than to pull straight onto the reserves, then not affording what they think is inevitable action at the end of the year, and then bringing a bill to legalize the funds, I feel inadequate. I'll give you an additional example that, in the financial law, it's like... Ask for additional financial contributions to unemployment insurance. V.E.G. Social Affairs made a decision in my year to raise the reference levels of unemployment with the claim that there was enough money for this, but the same minister, or same Ministry, has arrived at the end of the year to ask for additional financial contributions in terms of financial support. I don't think it's an excellent trick. We can watch what's called a church meeting. There is nothing unexpected or unpredictable in this regard. We've been doing this every year for some time. I'm not saying that it had been a big improvement that the joint came from a general reserve, but it might have been a little better. Of course, he should have been on the law. We did some money for him a year ago at the same time as we did some money. This year's budget would probably have been the scariest thing to take on. More of these guys could pick up. I'm not going to chew them out here by myself, but I'm going to stop again and again what disappoints me, how more of the legal committees deal with this matter. I would have wanted us to have taken longer to review the funds, that we had required additional support from the advisers on what was done to try to avoid looking for sources for financial help, and that the Ministry would have provided only one of them with a financial committee to explain and support their conduct. I really care about how much money it's supposed to be covered with government laws. I feel that by the implementation of both this massive increase in budget now and how the basic values of the law on sustainability, stability and leadership are stretched and reduced to the treatment of the greater part, we are watering these new laws out pretty quickly, making their survival and discipline much less than the intended.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u19	A respectable president. Quick: I thought, when it came to it. A senator mentioned the improvement of the greater part, that in the public financial law, a minister, if necessary, is specifically allowed to seek additional financial resources in the bill for financial support. Then I wondered, " Will the Council really be permitted after all? ' Well, we have the legal rights, and we give these funds to the Commission, but under official financial laws, the budget is to swing around 30. Gr., or in my minus, and from next year's financial resources, etc. If there are narrow cases that are spoken of, they should be able to be corrected. It's funny, though, that the Council suddenly comes in and says, "Hey, this is unexpected, etc.." It should be a minister who says that this is an unexpected case that needs to be dealt with with by means of financial resources. It is very strange if the Allied council arrives and says: "Oh, it was an unexpected one on our side, even though we do not know. That's what I thought. Then I wanted to add to the church meeting, where the weather was. The senator listed the conditions. I'd like to add it, then, what a while? It's not temporary at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u20	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. These are interesting speculations. The additional proposals were so quick that the committee included me that I don't quite know how they came about. I now expect these to be due to the request of the minister to the Committee. But of course, a man always pauses, wanting to see a minister for the Committee with full support of why this is inevitable, how to remedy this. Therefore, it was not available to distribute in this case. The whole church meeting is a very good point. There's nothing temporary. True, there is a contract, but it is also worth remembering that it includes. with logical support, the National Church is adding pay for maintenance measures, especially in the years of collapse. The second review that gained access to this matter came from the Free Church in Hafnarfjörður, where it was noted that the congregations were being segregated, for other congregations were doing exactly the same work, paying their priests to the decision of a court council, but without such refinements as here was being given to a national church. But I just have to say, I'm happy with the adjustments. The transferer of 1st is in charge of the council and I expect to be supportive of them quite a bit because we need to clean up on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for his history, and in many ways, he agrees with what he used in his speech. But I want to make comments. I don't want to say that our newer ideas are unconcerned or unconcerned, the changes that need to be made. I must protest. I don't have a full-time job in politics, a respectable President. Still, I have a political past in that for a time I sat in charge of a government legal committee. A senator was then in the government. When people talk as if they don't have their own history, I think it's uncontaminated by politics, and I'm not going to say anything more about it. I just want to pray. A senator to remember and respond to the government that sat while I was in charge. In the middle of a year, the legal committee resorted to transport funds of 1.2 billion. Then I'd like to pray. A senator to answer how he had handled it in a financial way. We both supported a government that gave us a budget bill in the fall when that habit was still not expected to be a complete pay for the church meeting. We also sat up with it on autumn days on the budget. By that time, a health minister had advanced from his sources to 6 billion because of drug subsidies. How would it have been? A senator responds to this in the national part of the world?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u22	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think we share our views on having these things okay. That's a good idea. To remind a senator of these points, many of which were not necessarily exemplary. It's, for example. Just as it was true that the fall of 2017 had become another financial bill that did not expect a church meeting. That, then, is our common shame in that subject. First of all, it is shocking that the matter has not been over, for some differences have lasted for quite a long time, although they have accepted the need to negotiate and to finish it but to take it into account in the budget. I have no more than what. A senator who had a very long history in politics could tell me that I was studying here on chapters. That's why I have no choice but to agree. It is true that in the time of that government, the program was completed, e.g. in the field of health insurance and medical expenses, which were not responded in no other way. I also know well that there were pre-running vehicles, which, in fact, I thought at the time absolutely unavoidable, which turned toward the runoff loads and costs of sensibilities, which were, in fact, miscalculated in budget work in 2017, had become a major system change that was still being attempted to cover at the expense. There are some things that cannot be managed. It is certainly the duty of a minister to try to respond to other matters by some surgery. I think that at least it can be applied to the cost of medicine and health insurance, that there had to be a different reaction. However, I would like to state that in the time of that government, I felt very careful about using funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u23	A respectable president. Thank you for the honest answers. Senator. But I would end up talking about his inevitable expenses. Then I am bound to ask again, as I asked in the previous reply, How is it that? A senator imagines handling the following financial matters if that government had continued? Has a what? A senator can afford the harsh criticism he brings to the budget bill we're discussing here? I'm in the same place as what. A senator when he says we want more discipline, that we want to be more committed to our government. But we are also to recognize our own assignments and to be reasonable in the criticism we make.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u24	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. Of course, a senator shows that we need to be reasonable and consistent in our criticism and declarations. It was clear, until the break of cooperation in the fall of 2017, that there was no need for financial support. At that point, it was still assumed that this would fit within the framework of the general reserve of reserve. [[Up front.]] The payoff was later found to be much greater in the past than while the government was still operating. Then the government changes into a so - called government government that makes no macropolitan decisions and finishes its three - month course. On the other hand, I make it clear that when this appeared in the winter, or last December, up to 21 billion, I was surprised. It was certainly a decision that changed, e.g. to pay off loans that cost 8 billion but to save a substantial amount of money on the road. If I thought that was the law on public financial matters. But it also made me feel that there was a final source of payoffs that I did not recognize as being employed until a few weeks earlier. I'm just talking about the need to be very careful with the utilities like that. I still feel that I see more and more evidence to collect expenses than how I have managed to prevent them. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u25	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a bill for budget money for the past year, 2018. A greater proportion of cases are available. The budget board. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, vice president of the Committee, took the lead, made the committee's list of parts very well understood, and covered the work that the committee went to during the brief period of time she had to cover, and a short period of time since the year 1st. where the highest will be Financial and economic ministers recommended the case. Friday. Although it is clear that time has been slow, we have tried to make the best use of it. Twenty-six. A law on public financial matters lays down a bill for the budget and, says the President's permission: If necessary, a secretary is allowed to look for additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget, although they have not been able to cope with the resources specified in these laws. These are the same conditions that are set for the use of the common reserve. Thus, it presents a more narrow requirement than is required to form in the old budget, as other measures, such as transfers and reserves, are expected to meet the major deviations from the strategy. It is therefore assumed that the size of the budget will be, and not to be, less than ever. I've had a very good observation of what I've been doing. The senators and members of the committees why. A financial committee of excellent criticism and a common will and vision to do better. However, I believe, a respectable president, that we are on the right track and that our ambition is the same. That's fine. When I say we're on the right track, it's assumed that the amount of funds now will be less than ever. However, I agree to form an executive for my share, or... paritaprevir The Björn Leví of Gunnarsson, who introduced this proportion of 0.7%, could be taken into account when the general reserve had been removed. That's exactly the point. We're certainly in the induction process, and it's important that we use the tools of the law to achieve the goals that were even. reducing the size of funds. That was a direct objective, and we should work at it. I think all those who have participated in this discussion have been very well overlooked. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson did not compromise when he considered more things. I think it is important to make a statement in the opinion of the greater part that, so far, we have not fully mastered the use of the tools to meet these objectives. I'll draw out that there's still some. Delirium 800 billion. K. from the general reserve. In this case, the use of reserves of the individual categories must be further examined and it is important to complete a Regulation on the use of the general reserve. In the 67th. legal on official financial matters is required by the Minister's Regulation which shall be in Regulation for the further implementation of the law and including the reserve of the 6th issue of Article 67. that a minister in the Regulation shall recommend the provision of a reserve fund on the basis of conditions presented at 1 mg. 24th par. which is about the General Product Fund of Part A. It is important that we push after this Regulation is completed in accordance with Article 67. The law on the bill. Unlike the above, the bill is now merely a subject of unique expenditures that did not include within the framework of the budget so that it is not a complete reassessment of the budget. However, I would like to refer to a table on page 5. 46 published in the Summit of the greater section, which provides an excellent overview of the reasons that are discussed further in the subject's own report. That's where even the two of them come from. ......................................................................................................................................... Roads there increase technical spending issues due to changes in turnover and transfers up to 48 billion dollars. in which there is mainly a harmonisation of the estimates and accounts in line with the introduction of the IPSAS account as a result of biomillation and the signing of tax revenues and changes, and as such, are classified under what we have called - and have been observed in the discussion - technical transfers where changes occur, in accordance with international standards, through the operating accounts. Like what? According to one authority, this change does not affect survival according to Article 1. budgets in which the result is consistent with the so - called global report standard, GFS. There are 8.6 billion for change and for the rise in other budgets of causes and litigation. There is the highest sum of $3.2 billion. to raise the financial resources due to the custody of pension bonds. 985 million. K. Above all, financial laws are explained by a reassessment of the expenses of a feeding or holiday reserve, resulting from parental participation. The objective was positive, and the cost of each day's pay was increased in the maternity section because of changes in pay. Of course, there are positive people who want to take vacations. That's 784 million coming in. K. a contribution to further a treat between Church and State, a church agreement. The answer was quite clear. paritaprevir And the ruler of much, the Haraldur son of Benediktsson, and the voice. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson said that this arrangement has become uncomfortable on a regular basis and that it is important that this agreement is completed so that we can begin to see it regularly in the financial process. I think most of the people here have been talking to us today. I just want to mention what happened in the discussion earlier, and there was a review of the financial bill from the Free Church in Hafnarfnarfjörður. It can be viewed as a view that, with contract agreements and various exports that take place in a church agreement at a local church, which may include: is being paid by priests - so it is not for the spread of other religions - that there is, of course, a view to the possibility of evolution toward some kind of discrimination. That was very brief in the review. I'd like to state that this review is being given, but I think it's very good to accept it as a whole in review of the financial strategy on a comprehensive basis from this topic field when we go through a financial program as well as this church agreement that has not reached its end. The Ark of Hafnarfjörður also had a review of the budget that had to do with the other aspects. These religions receive parishes that do not change as they do in this church meeting. I'd like to arrange, sir, for a more dignified president, for us to take this matter in general for a review of the financial programme. Transport is 569 million. K., preferably due to a snowstorm and the delay of the Western Islands vector, the new one. The increase in the number of applications for international protection is 500 million. K. A reduction in the number of applications was expected, but applications from non-sure countries have not declined as expected. We received an answer, but in view of the short time, we sent questions to the entire Ministry to respond to the fees I'm covering. This will be a contribution to the EU's policy framework of 491 billion. There have been over expenses for physical therapy, 469 million. K. It is interesting to note that because the demand for physical therapy is increasing in the wake of a new payment system with an increase of 17%, it can be said to have developed to some extent in a positive way, as musculoskeletal problems have clearly been reduced. The number of those assessed as micropowers due to musculoskeletal problems is looked forward to an increase of 75%, and it's positive. That's what I'm about to say in advance about food on financial gain. I talked it over with what I was doing. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's reply, and he can say as far as he was concerned. A senator and the Ministry's comments that we need to review these contracts. A minister should consider how to react. It may even need to be. to evaluate the positive factors that result from this and the expense and to evaluate it in some context. Business market and unemployment are rising by 480 million. K. Because of employment insurance, work contracts, and increased budgets of responsible pay due to an increase in corporate bankruptcy over the year, a significant increase has been observed in corporate bankruptcy since the previous year. During the first nine months of the year, there are 750 in number, more than 60% since the same period in 2017. It needs to be examined. As mentioned in a recent interview with the head of the employment agency, Gissur Pétursson, in a news agency, it would be worth more researching the bad ones in our economy, so I use his word, which we use as a landmark travel. I'm going to allow myself, a respectable president, to quote the highest government contract. Governments on the work market that say: The government wants to work with the labour market partners for a responsible labour market. There are chain responsibilities to be introduced in different sectors, to counteract sexual pay, to social subs, to mensal, and to social security, and to promote work-hauling. The figures I went over earlier speak their language, and I'm at the highest point. A government to follow these plans in the living conversation that it has even. ................................................................................................................................ I'm just gonna come to work contracts. Their number has increased beyond what was expected, and this has been achieved with an additional clearance of 187 million. K. The work contracts have increased by more than 20% compared to the budget, so the demand for work contracts has increased dramatically during the year. That's very positive news. Naturally, this arrangement is important to this group. On the other hand, it should be noted here that it is estimated to be worth 250 million. K. Added to 2nd. The budget is not deemed to be underestimated into 2019 C.E. You will be happy when you have an explanation for the cost and response. Then we will be getting some results in what we are trying to get for the expenses we make. What may be more important about the variation of the original budget as a share of the budget is that it has not been lower since 2013. I only mentioned earlier that we may not have reached the full original goal of reducing the amount of funds and using the tools that the government laws bring to us. This is an indication that we are now looking for a better start. The percentage is 0.7%, but I repeat, it is of course proper to consider the general reserve in this situation as well. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson pointed out. In the statistics I have from the majority of the legal committees, there was an increase of approximately 5% in budgets, but after a bank crash and a large extension which resulted in a ratio of 1.6%. If we take the reserve with us, we're going to beat up in that ratio. Still, these numbers can be viewed in a positive way. We want to believe that we are on the right way to making good use of what was established by government laws and the right tools to do so. I covered the change in budgets by topic but also in the bill's report, an explanation for the change in budgets from economic exchange to management initiatives, capital contributions, and investment contributions. It also provides information on the changes in financial resources by means of topic areas. At the beginning of my talk on the role of a fund code, I said that today there are no changes in the income side of the budget, nor is there a complete change in the spending gate in the bill, with the effect on the flow and the collection of the previously existing state funds. This is to be expected to reevaluate the recovery process. However, for a reevaluation of the year 2018, please see the report in the chart on page 5. 55 Based on Iceland's latest National Economic Standards (U.S.A.A.A.A.S.A.S.A.A.S.A.A.A.A.S.A.S.A. estimates that both income and expenditure will be slightly higher than expected, estimated total income is 4.4 billion higher than in budgets, and the total budget will be about 700 million. K. higher. There are minimal variations, ranging from 807.3 billion to 08 billion. I noticed that in view of more of the legal committee, it appears on page 12. 3 of the State's budget estimated that the total budget will be nearly the same as in the budget of the year, i.e. About 0.7 billion dollars. lower. Of course, it's supposed to be higher, 700 million higher, so I'll make it happen. True, the committee had an unusually short period of time, and the counsel to call out for information and answers from councils, and the time given was not great. I want to take this opportunity and say the word. The commission official Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, to thank the CF manager for his quick response. They provided excellent explanations, such as why they were young. A pilot made good progress in the history and review of the leading section. [[Up front.]] Similarly, more of the committee suggests the adjustment proposals. A total of this is the increase of bills from the bill due to this report of 248.1 billion. K. and the weight gain for innovation, so called training grants, is 137.9 billion. K., to Allga Life Iceland ehf. which is based on an investment agreement made by the Iceland government on January 28, 2014. It stipulates, on the basis of financial qualifications, that the Society is entitled to training for costs resulting from the training of employees. It has now been reviewed and confirmed by the Department of Professional Road and Development and is now given the opportunity to discuss this matter by the General Assembly. Then there are so - called corrections and transfers comparable to those we saw in the budget, a total of 300 million. K. in 11 joints. Then a suggestion to drop from 25 million is made. K. a contribution to the National Theater expected in the bill related to collective agreements. The majority suggest that, instead, an assignment be referred to a general budget of funds, as the law would expect, because it is a collective agreement that is beyond the terms of the budget. I agree with someone else. Council members here have discussed the importance of our respecting the objectives of public finances on sustainability, caution, stability, stability, transparency, and false management, and thanking all of us at the end of the day. A budget for a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council for a financial talk and a good review of the language. There was one thing I cut off in his speech, i.e. that public finances were spoken of as enunciating procedures on the law. If so, I would like to wonder here: " When do we say no to an unconvinced financial request? What's the induction process there? When does it end a induction process? Official financial law has e.g. Annual reports with notation. They had to put forth the first effort this year and not before. But where is the exception of avoiding the strict conditions of reserves and funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u27	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Of course, I could be quite negative and read from the law on temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable matters. But I'm going to agree with what. Senator. I think we should get used to talking about induction procedures. It was originally measured three years, or five years after an incident depending on the paper you read. It's been three years, so we're just supposed to stop talking about the induction process and start applying the tools of the law as quickly as possible and applying them. It's just that way. I'll add a thread to my speech and stop talking about us in the induction process as if there's some sort of sins for looking through your fingers with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses. Of course, we are always under obligation in the big picture to provide the European Commission with access and supervision. Because of what? A senator's report came up with a minister's report. I'd like to say that we're now for the first time looking at more of the reports because they apply about 2017. It is good and beneficial for you. The budget is about to go through it. But I think it'll be quite perturbing when we start taking the Minister's annual reports -- I'm not gonna say " induction procedure - in the process itself, which is actually the law, this process, policy, plan, budget, and then year reports; that will be part of what we're talking about as a financial process.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u28	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this message, and I can't wait to support the highest level. Chairman of the legal committee for the work to follow. In other words, not regarding induction, but the enforcing of the law. And since we're talking about the annual reports, I'm looking forward to seeing the next budget of the government and hoping it will be made so that the Minister's annual reports will be useful. They exactly finish the process, which is an assessment of how a minister's policy was carried out in a financial programme. If policy is not submitted e.g. with cost evaluations, etc. It is impossible to assess in the annual report whether or not the documents proposed in the policy and policy measures have yielded the desired results. If we are no longer in the induction process, we also apply to the financial plan, which is the first step toward the annual report as such. I look forward to seeing the next year's financial plan. I look forward to seeing how we're going to go through reserves and then next year may not be able to raise any extra funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u29	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A gentleman in question later in answer. He left no direct question, but I share the excitement. Why do I say that? Because now we've run out of government budget, and then we're going to a revised national financial programme. Now that we've gone through two budgets, we've got state financial policy behind them, as the law allows. It was a really big cover-up and a lot of coverage through the government budget. Hv. The budget shared with a number of indications, for a third of the tips, which are very important to hold and follow. Because of what? A senator came in on a course and goals that follow a course somewhere, if we speak the policy language, which I know to do. At the same time, a senator is very interested in getting even more detailed goals. To further reduce their numbers and to keep them clear and counting, costing them. We're on the same line in that topic, and that's why I totally share this laugh. But there's something else, so I'm going to end what we started with in the induction process, that I'm not sure that we're gonna get everyone around us to stop talking about the induction process. But I understand the message and will truly keep it in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u30	A respectable president. Here we are dealing with funding because of the year that is about to end and one thing and another has been published and discussed today. I'm going to begin by agreeing with my associates that I think our common goal is to try to be good at things and to reduce the need to contribute funds. I think in spite of the plan, and what should I say, attempts to make good plans, we must face the fact that something can always be washed up in that despite everyone's wanting to do it. Of course, as we go through this process more often, less is needed. And it has to be said, as it is, there are times when elections occur year after year and there are many basics and many policies and funds and all kinds of cases involved. So it is not surprising that something is broken up and that it is not thought well enough. I think we can be happy how far we are, though. Fortunately, we have had little now, and the policy is that we want to reduce it, and I think the committee would agree on that. Because it mentioned the induction process, I remember that when we went to Sweden, the budget board, and we talked about our colleagues there, and the state reexamination and other parties, they all mentioned that the induction process could take up to ten years, and of course, it's not a procedure. Some things are well along as we know others that are much shorter, including Because of systemized objects and various underlying factors. We know this, and talking about standards and other things, it's also something that I think we need to take a closer look at. The objective was open, clear, and understandable government financial systems. I don't think it's really happening. I think we need to somehow figure out how we can help ourselves to do it that way. I think it's primarily for the benefit of all of us. It's also part of being able to figure this out better and to further prevent them from having to take on any extra cash or in some kind of additional budget or god knows what, i.e. To make this process more understandable to us, let alone others who have to deal with it in their institutions. I think we all stand together trying to be careful and to do better, and I think this shows it, despite the fact that we're on the right track. This is the first time we reached from start to finish with the same government at the table to complete this process from setting a course to and from the end of the budget. We already have, and then we have this case in our hands now, the budget. It's been very helpful to consider what goes on in the budget. We've been saying that we haven't achieved this whole objective yet. We agree with the criticism that has been shown about the use of the reserve, that we think, and it may reflect a little bit on the State Accounting, this is not quite good enough about the reserve. There is some kind of regulation missing, or how we want it to rot, and that may be part of it because it is not more definitive than it is in its review, I think. I'm evaluating this for myself, maybe I'll think of it. And it is for us to try to figure out how we want to see this use. First of all, it has been said that the fund is for the management of public disaster, that it is for handling pay cases, i.e. if there are any changes in the middle of the year that are not reached in the traditional budget. It may reflect 25 million. A branch that turned to pay and protected the National Theater returned to the fund where we evidently felt it belonged. This is true, and we know the criticism that governments at any given time have searched this channel to expand their ranks. It won't hide us at all. I think we, at least We, who ship the greater part, have sent our people a clear message that we don't exist in it, and that's why I say: it's, of course, on a small scale, what we're doing here on this matter, but it's still there. Therefore, we need to reiterate our requirements and, of course, we hope that now that our people are so well versed in matters, I would think at this time, a national financial programme, which is beginning to be revised, as it should be, and then, as well as financial laws and so on, would reflect the fact that people are beginning to recognize what it is about to be. The first year will probably pass by a great many who have at least a I don't sit in the department, studying. There's nothing unnatural about that, I think. At the council, we know for ourselves that we are time to figure things out. I think, or I don't think so, I just know that we've sent this clear message. That doesn't make it any different, as I say, that we have a budget that says there will be an increase of less than 57 billion. And as it says, there's a lot in historical context. It will be pointed out, which may be the most arrogant, 49 billion, related to the changes in the introduction I mentioned at the outset, how we react, which we have to deal with trying to understand and evaluate between years of age because we have not been directly confronted with it before. Of course, the largest part of it is due to pensional commitments and other such factors. This change does not affect the survival of the State Fund, for it is primarily in the format of Article 1. will be measured according to the report standard, but will change Article 3. where budgets are set according to international accounting standard, IPSAS. This is something that we on a budget committee are still trying to learn how to figure out and try to analyze the difference. So it probably works like Latin for those who don't know it, I think. Other than this, changes to less than 9 billion are being made in terms of increases in cost-exchanges, and there are also several transfers, technical transfers of various sources. It's said here that it's with the lowest it ever being, i.e. This variation in proportion to the budget since 2013. Actually, I don't remember, but it was in opposition earlier that it was about 0.7%, but it happened by the dog. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request that this be similar to 2009-2016 if interest was taken, wasn't it? [[Top of the list: the reserve.]] - The reserve, I say. I don't know how it was at that time, at the time, how it was established, whether or not something was excluded. I just admit I don't have that completely figured out, i.e. whether we're definitely comparing orange to orange, or not. This does not change, however, that this has, of course, gone down as planned. It was always around 5%, which is a lot. The majority of them then review the reevaluation of the wealth of the state. It's also in the bill, although it may not be conventional, it's good to acknowledge when new numbers are available. And a new national interest forecast was made. That was even. The reason we had to work on the budget bill, and then it's fine that it's also traced here. It estimates that the total wealth of the state's budget will be more than 4 billion higher than expected in budgets in the current year and, on the other hand, reduces the income of a valuable tax to less than 6 billion. There are probably some factors that play into, including The number of tourists in Iceland often travels abroad to shop and then reduces the number of tourists, or they spend less on us than they used to. The most important abnormality in higher money from Iceland Bank and Bank of 7.5 billion is then spoken of. I've criticized it every year that it seems that it is not possible to plan on what it has been like in recent years, but it always turns out to be higher. It's better than the other, but still, I don't necessarily agree that it's very difficult to estimate, if we look at any of the criteria of the previous X years. Of course, it is important not to miss the goal. I think this can be done accurately. Then our work on the committee is considered only a matter of review. I want to thank all the members of the Committee Field and our editors for their good work. We gave them little time to get answers to what was desired about what is in the bill and to mention the secretary of the council, that they responded quickly and answered us. Still, there was little time left for this. These people are doing quite a job, for there are, of course, all the committee books and anything else that needs to be covered, done, and done. Must be saying that the staff are extremely helpful in helping us in this. We also came in and discussed today's Icelandic e-mail position. It's 500 billion. K. permission to repay, which is part of the 1,500 million that we discussed the other day. Then we have another arrangement, one that combined leads to nearly 250 million. K. increases dues. 300 million. K. is being made up of medical health - care records and, of course, very positive. It explains why this is and falls on a lot of things, and this has been why. There is saving elsewhere in our public system, physical therapy has led to people coming back to work at better health, has paid off in fewer disability cases. That cost is reflected in it and will likely come back once people are functional. I think this is something we have to be so careful about, and I think this is supposed to be financed by the budget that we just agreed to. It may be said that even though large amounts of money have been added to the credit system, it must be a pleasure to have people take advantage of what is available to achieve health. So forgotten to assume - this is a case in which people enter a ministry they don't know and start creating some system that has been forgotten when the law was passed on the payment system, i.e. The medical institutions had advised and were to improve them. Of course, they were not to lose that income, and that is part of what is being made up here, some 390 million. There we are just looking out for our system, that it can continue working for those who need it. Then we have a suggestion for additional funds for the Generals, for the construction of church Street 10, another mold that we have ever seen. Those of us who have worked and had a situation around the East have, I think, far too many of us have been affected by the fact that many of our facilities are very bad, and it always seems to be a bigger project when it is opened. It turned out to be there. Of course, it's a lot of money, and you always find it a little strange when a professional person is asked to evaluate a job to do so much. You may not have the sense to say that this can't be so, but you don't have the knowledge to do that. Of course, we were looking for answers to that question. Then I have to enter Alga Life, which, of course, is one of the big numbers in this number of less than 138 million. The investment agreement that was made on behalf of the government in 2014 where workers were being trained and did not, according to the Ministry, provided evidence that they were able to make this strength, but it was very late and not before the budget of that year. So it was only at the beginning of December, since they felt that they had sufficient evidence to make up for it, which is why it happened here. In itself, it could be said that it was unpredictable, for it did not necessarily exist to be solved in this year as well as in the next year. Then we have the Communion Fund. That was one of the things I remember when we were discussing market income. I warned you, things like this would come in that were forgotten. We added a public health fund to the budget of conversation. It was similar there. In some way it had to be tried. The law has to be changed so that the funds that are clearly available and should go there and prepare for a particular operation, they go there. At the end, a respectable president, I would like to mention the Founding of the Year Magnús. Of course, it is expensive, all that attracts manuscripts and such. We in Iceland may not be used to such security in all creation - like other nations - but Dan's demand for far more security than we really didn't know, because it may not be in our spirit, and of course it cost the money we're trying to make up for. This was a mere reference to a insurance agency and not an unexpected one. In the bill, I think the text describes it well that perhaps it was moving earlier than expected and with greater speed. When such poor housing has become a health problem, people may not calculate all the way to the end, such as through equipment and other items that cannot be moved after a very long time of mold. It was not expected. That is also one thing that the public citizen may not necessarily have knowledge of. So there is a change. Then, in the end, I'm going to say that funding will be devoted to paying a specialist at the head office of the Department of Health, but also to the following sources will be donated; to the Iceland's Women's Court of Women's rights for educational and information work on sexual equality, to the Women's Employment at Work for the Motion of Balances and Standards, which I think is extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u31	A respectable president. A quick comment. I don't necessarily expect to answer to her. I thought why. A senator would be very honest and humbly review the situation as it is in the interest of the funds and I really like such work. That way we can keep going. Although there are certain weaknesses in this on official financial law, etc. is the correct approach. I'd like to commend you. A senator for her and thinks it's my job not to attack her weaknesses, as I think politicians do all too often. The way to build confidence in the Council is to accept an honest presentation and walk in such a situation rather than to strike. Parliamentaries, as has been so often done in the past. So, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u32	Madam President. I thank the senator for his compliments. I'll totally agree with it. We've been working on a budget board for two years now, probably. I sincerely believe that the budget is thus composed now that it wants to walk for the good. We want to help with the effort to resolve this matter, making it as good as possible. At the same time, we need to be reasonable and take time to adjust to all of this. I also agree with what. A senator says that we could be more effective in speaking to one another when possible, which is far more often than many people want to be, and just when we take steps together. We help to show good work ethics and good manners when we work on a project, and to those we interact with at times. Thank you. A senator, too. I feel that the committee is very good and that she is trying to do this special work on public finances with her whole and good mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u33	Madam President. I recommend here to the Committee to recommend a change of proposal from a greater part of the management and monitoring committee on bill to legalise the political and information legislation, with subsequent changes (increased political transparency, contributions, published annual accounts, etc.)Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s The Commission's Commission has discussed the matter and had a meeting with Ágúst Geir of the Department of Justice, Hlynsdóttir Stefánsdóttir, the head of Pirata, Þórður Þórarinsson, director of the Independence Party, on the behalf of a committee on the review of the legal legislation of political organizations, and the Godns Guðjón Bragason from the Union of Iceland. The committee also received a book on the management of Icelandic rural society, which stated that the Community administration agreed that all rural communities would be charged. The bill suggests changes in the financial laws of political organizations and providers, as well as their duties to information, through subsequent changes. The primary purpose of these changes is to trust the working conditions and independence of political organizations and to help them be able to perform the important democratic role assigned to them. The bill also aims to increase transparency and balance the ranks regardless of their size as well as to reconcile the term '-related persons' to a comparable term in other laws. Since the sentence of a law on political and commercial organizations and their information responsibilities, contributions to political organizations have been dropped, and political organizations that divide the money. There have also been increases in salary and consumption indicators. Reduced funding reduces support for innovation and development, expertise, and international involvement in political organizations. Thus, many groups have found it difficult to care for the most essential political organization and thus meet the objectives of the law. The majority stress that by means of the bill it is a work condition and the independence of political organizations is better secured and their status measured. The bill deal included. look at GRECO's recommendation by the European Council on corruption published in the third assessment report by the GRECO Committee on 4 April 2018, on the provision of funding for political organizations in this country. The results and recommendations were also partly considered in the ASE Safety and Cooperative Assessment Report presented on March 2, 2018, including were for evaluation of specific points relating to political funding in connection with the General election in October 2017. The terms of the bill also take the first step in a long - range political campaign against hatred propaganda, anonymity, slander, and attacks in political battles - something of great importance. In recent years the importance of political media has increased, which has created a channel for anonymous advertising. Such development is a threat to democracy. The majority believe that using the bill is an important step that manifests the firm will of all political parties at the General to reject such methods. With 1 1. The bill is added to a new article before Article 12. The law. There is no headline in the new article, but the rest of the law has a headline. Thus, the majority contributes to adding a headline that reflects the contents of the law. In addition, one technical change of Article 7 is proposed. The bill. In view of what has been presented, a greater proportion of the management and monitoring committees will submit the bill to the following change: 1st Instead of the word '- 1'. mg 1 1. The law's coming to B-T-O-R. dose is administered twice at 1 mg. 1 1. The law comes, in the appropriate dent. 2. In paragraph 11. Add to it a headline, saying: "No more anonymous propaganda. " Under this committee, in addition to what it says here, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Proppé, Bribbur Brynjar's Níelsson, Óli Kárason Kálímsson, in advance, Þöfður Sæmundsson, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eliil.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u34	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill delivered by the chairman of Congress or members of Congress. My importers are down. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Egilsdóttir Eglursdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadótir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, and Inga Sæland. The bill has a long history, as is attributed to a report. It can be said that these issues have been taken into consideration as to the changes made in terms of contracts and other matters in 2007. There was then an arrangement that allowed helpers of the heads of political parties, and members of the three European Parliaments were authorized to hire a part - time employee. That part of the helper system was then removed in 2009 after the collapse, but assistants of the officers continued to work. The idea was to balance the situation of the presidents of political parties who are not part of the government, with the government's position, and have assistants as ministers. Nevertheless, a large portion of the aid system was deactivated in 2007 after the collapse. As economic and government conditions improved, it can be said that people began to consider other ways to promote assistance to members and members of Congress. The 2017 financial program immediately assumed that funds would be given to the council, which would allow such a system to be adopted, and it was actually expected that this system would be done sooner, but it is now. The situation is that in the 2019 budget, there is room to assist with members of the council and members of the council in this regard. In view of this, it has been done first by the Council Presidency Committee and then by the heads of the Parliament to implement the changes involved. It may be said that at their summer meeting to initiate the introduction of this helper or staff system, a prime committee made a targeted decision and, on the fall of days, a large contribution was made to the heads of Parliaments. It is on the basis of which the presidents of Congress come to deliver this matter. I'm not going to do a detailed review of the report or the evidence there in terms of increased assistance or increased the right of Congress to hire employees. If we look at the councils around us, the general rule is that members of Congress or Congress have quite more right to hire employees or helpers who carry out political assignments than they have been in this country. It is common for a position that may be from one employee to two, three, depending on the members of each senator. However, the more modest and more careful approach is to be expected in the above suggestions. It is a twofold matter. On the one hand, there is the bill available here, with the purpose of creating or strengthening the legal basis for such recruitment of employees, which is as an essential part of this program under the direction of the council here. The second issue then gives further details to the recruitment of employees, which, of course, depends on two, one of the budgets each year, and then the agreement between members of the Parliament on the set of criteria for changing standards. If I first came to the subject of the bill itself, I would like to know that the points as they appear in Article 1. The bill is a warrant for recruiting members for members of Congress. The formal aspect of the recruitment is held at the council so that the employees will be members of the General Assembly. However, there is some evidence that members of Congress themselves govern the Governing Body and at the same time play a role in handling these employees. Thus, the formal setting of the work is the same as it does for public employees, to the extent appropriate, and to the extent that the Office of the General Overseers handles their affairs as employees on official and legal grounds. However, it is the council that decides who are hired and whose daily activities are to be performed. The bill also considers the rights of these employees. The political work involved is expected to be temporary. They will be at the end of an elected period if no other choice is made. Of course, there are other sources of enlightenment. Nevertheless, their specific rights regarding retirement and working conditions are expected in relation to the above. Thus, while the flexibility is greater than when it comes to the position of the public employees in general, there are still regulations in the bill to ensure the rightness of the individual. In the bill, this law is submitted. It is assumed that the members of Congress will have the opportunity to hire employees. The bill will continue to include the special assistants of the heads of the political parties, as are regulations that guarantee the position of those who are already in such activity, so that the rights of those who are now present are. The leaders of political parties are not to change to the taking of these laws. I refer to a paper with the bill on what the idea is by coming to this relief system, as it has been called to our work. It is based on the need for help in their varied tasks, e.g. to prepare a legal projector, in connection with the work they are working on; it may be in the form of data gathers, in the form of compensating committees or changes proposals or other factors that test political and political policies, as it were, possibly beyond what can be expected by the solid Allalgis staff, which is, of course, and will remain important; however, there is much greater opportunity for formal activities than for the content of the matter. It is not reasonable to expect the regular members of the Generals, commissionaries, or others to do work that is essentially political and in the interests of individual political parties or individual political policies. One of the main objectives of having these members come to the council is to increase their prospects of using preparatory workers, which, of course, will once again be the responsibility of members of Congress itself. They must have a central role in leading them to work and following them along in the field. However, the assistance that may at the same time contribute to political policy, data collection, and other necessary activities is also important. Our hopes are that the steps we are going to take this next year will improve the work of the council, especially the part of the legal process, increase the carefulness and make it possible for what comes out of our work here in the council to be more beneficial to our country and country. We must plan to arrange for members of the Parliament to allow time for the efficiency of these workers. Here are some instructions in the report with the bill, including the article. is mentioned, as I mentioned earlier, to assist with the preparation of Congress, inquiry or adjustment, assistance to council members relating to data collection, commissioning, preparation of committees, and other communications necessary for the hands of members, organizations, organisations, and others. Although this space is available, the idea is that the strength of these workers will be spent on the behalf of the council rather than on the e.g. for the sake of public party service or any such factors. Other factors that have been discussed earlier today depend on political parties as an organization, but here it is emphasized that members of Congress have the right to assist employees in caring for their duties as best at the council. This is what I wanted to say about the purpose of these changes. Of course, the plan is to expand this assistance so that members of the Parliament can do their jobs better. As mentioned in the report, there are various ways in which help is provided. Those who are worried that this is too late can see information in the report on how these matters are being handled in all our major neighboring countries. I believe that the results will be that the steps here are being taken are somewhat cautious and modest in view of what goes and happens. If we look at the changes as we plan them, we will see here at the end of this election period that 17 new employees have been hired on this basis, it is a relatively low percentage if we look at what happens in the countries around us. Of course, criticism of expenses from the work of the Generals, governments, or others is always right. Those who have the authority to make budgets for public projects must always handle it with caution. This bill and the underlying plans are being set aside. They're talking about raising the help. Within the council, many have spoken that, in time, it is reasonable for each member to have his own helper. In effect, by taking the steps set before us during this terms, we are going halfway to the end of all factors, including the rest of the population. any senators, also Ministers, receive assistants or any political presidents get help. The ratio is then that once the change has been achieved at the end of this terms, approximately One assistant to each of the two senators, all told. That's about half what happens in most countries around us. This is what I wanted to do during this discussion because, of course, this case has been found to be critical in the preparatory phase which is mainly a result of the fact that there is still another example of the country's political class building itself up. But I must point out that this is a dangerous step. These things are being taken away. These things haven't gone very far at once. In behind this, they argue that because of the work the members of the council are supposed to do, it is both natural and practical that they can have help that contributes to their political activities, not only to the formal but also to the political work. To help with this, it is not unusual for councils to be political assistants rather than neutral experts, so to speak. We have here at the council now, and in fact, we are adding in accordance with the policies both of the current leadership of the council and also of the present government, to promote the General Assembly as an institution and to promote the general members of their work. Experts in the Generals' office have been contacted, but they maintain a neutral nature of the matter. It is not possible to assign them to work on political preparations that are still important. That's what they're trying to do with this bill. I wanted to know at the end that when this bill is approved, there's a legal warrant. Budgets assumes legal rights, but it does build the exports, i.e. how to make a distinction between councils, an agreement made in the field of the council groups. There have been members of the council of all classes and/or other members of the council. The reason this bill does not appear until today is that it is now sought to achieve the greatest agreement between groups of the council on the outcome. This bill is supported by all members of the Parliament. What is most important in the agreement of the Parliamentary classes included as a follow-up for the bill is to add 17 jobs or status values during this terms. As a result, the year 2019, next year, eight employees, one member of each body body member, will be allowed to be hired regardless of size, but in 2020 five other employees and four others will be added in 2021. When these levels are divided between 2020 and 2021, the formula d'Hondts will be used to figure out how to divide the standards between the classes. As compared to the number of members of the Parliament, except for members of Parliament who already have helpers, i.e. Councilmen and presidents of political parties The package leaflet shows the formula based and how the induction should return to individual categories each year. This document is a memo sent to the head of Congress to the president of the Generals and prime committee of November 27, the past. It should be noted that since that agreement there have been some adjustments in the council and that the criteria have been partly changed, i.e. the basis for which the calculation is fundamental. The Party of Stockholm is no longer a group of four members but two members, and two members are outside the council. As a result, in this unique case and as general as in the future, there have been discussions of how and what to do. The results of our council members and members of a council on the first point are that the agreement from the end of November will be performed as it was written and signed, and that it will be implemented next year when and if this bill is approved in the council. As for the second point, how these matters will be planned for the future, I feel right in this discussion to announce that between the members of the Parliament, there has agreed that there will be a change in the size of Congress within the terms of a season, it is normal for a number of their employees to be revised, although it is to be taken into account that the rights of the former employees, they have a period of notice in accordance with the law, while new categories have the possibility of getting help as soon as possible and in accordance with the provision of the year's budget. These talks by the chairman and members of the Parliament assume that there will be a review of the members of Congress if they grow, decrease, split, or how this can happen. However, the review will continue based on the same authority on employment qualifications, i.e. The relative strength of the council. This additional meeting, if you can say so, needs to be in charge of this case and I think it is appropriate to announce it here, in agreement with all its representatives, so that there is no doubt that if there is any change - that it is assumed that the package 1 will be as it is, but if further changes occur later during this season, there will certainly be a change in the changing values according to the main criteria here. It is also true to assume that there has been a fundamental principle long to assist with members of Congress, which has been referred to as assistance to members of Congress, depending on the size of members and relative division. But it can be noted that it has always been made up of regular revisions when there is a change in the size of members of Congress, a decrease in size, or an increase in the number, or how it is, from one period to another. We're going to go through a three-year process on the induction of this new system. We have set up a plan to do so in what way. If the criteria change in any way during this period to the end of the season, we agree to sit down and review, which is based on the main reasons that have been attributed here, i.e. that assistance to members of Congress must be based basically on the size of a body of members or a number of members of each body of Congress. However, there are also other factors, such as how many members of the council have special assistance as presidents or ministers. In all this aid system, just so you can say, there is a set floor, so to speak, which ensures that once a body has been formed and has a position, it will receive a certain minimum support. The overall system may be said to be a failure to give minimum support to all, regardless of the size of members of Congress. However, once the changes have been made, there will be increased consideration for the size, which is also fair because the basis for these changes, the basis behind the ability to hire employees to assist members of the Parliament, it is of course, of course, that members of Parliaments with such factors are entitled to assist in their work. We believe that by going where this is put, we are actually preparing the system permanently. We're going to take it easy. This may be necessary, not only to avoid becoming too reckless when it comes to government funds but also to ensure that all members of the council, even the smallest, will be helped in this way and will be able to use this system to further and improve their work within the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u35	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I'm coming up here to thank you. paritaprevir Volunteering the Birgir of an Ármannsson for handling this matter and holding it in hand. For a long time, it has been on the program of the council to strengthen members of the council. I think it's time we started taking other steps in that direction, in fact, some step. We who have been involved in foreign cooperation and have met members of other councils, members of other countries, see that it usually has a completely different side of it and a completely different way of handling the senator's work. It's an enormous variety, a wide variety of activities, a lot of extramarital activity, and I'm glad we're taking these steps. This bill, as mentioned, is part of a program to support the General Assembly and its activities and purpose, especially that those members of the council who have no assistance receive it directly as such. This will help us with careful work practices, and especially with what I like to increase the memory of members of Congress in particular, since I know that the pressure is on those in their categories, they have to cover many of the discussions, apart from all other jobs here and the work mentioned. I think that's a very positive step. But we also need to be careful about the money and how we protect it. I think we've framed it okay with this bill that we're all doing, and we agree to take these steps together. It is very important that we also keep our hands on the work environment of the employees, that their rights and rights are guaranteed, and that they keep their arms fixed on it. I'm glad we're done thanking a fine traveling overseer for his excellent history and good planning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u36	Mr. President. This is good, I'm on it. We have found, I think, eight to nine times and we have a very good and perplexing discussion on the viewpoint, how this is divided, how many assistants are available, etc. This bill means that me and other members of Congress can do our job better for the voters who trust us. We who are not necessarily legalists can do our job better. We want people of all kinds, with all kinds of strength, and in order to better carry out our work as senators, we need helpers like lawyers and managers, etc. who can hold the things we're not smart at holding. We can take care of the policy we fight for, the viewpoints and values we want to put first, defend it, and promote our work as members of Congress. I'm especially pleased with that. I'd like to go a lot further. I think every senator should have his own assistant. But we're not going there right now. That is how it is in Sweden, and more than two assistants are at the council in Denmark. This step involves going toward half the employee. Still, it's going to make a tremendous improvement in our work. I can, for example. I didn't do my job very well. Piratar and I used assistant directors when we were three. Then we used the Chairman's assistant to care for the entire council, had a 1/3 employee, and, of course, had a lawyer. If we hadn't, we wouldn't have been able to do our job as well as we did, as professionally as we did. We couldn't have cared for our clients, our voters, as well as we did. So this is an enormous step toward progress. I can give you an example. The senator's work is often referred to. When people see the empty senator, they ask: "Where are all the senators? What are they doing, etc.? As an example, now I've put together a good Excel document with all my tasks. There were so many of them that somehow I had to sort them. I took up my responsibilities. As a Pirati, I have certain responsibilities within my party, and I at least have nine hats. I'm a member of Pirata Congress, I'm the secretary of Porta's House of Congress. I'm a spokesman for Porta's members. All of this involves specific responsibilities and tasks that come into play in this regard. I am then a member of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, I am vice president of 2nd and therefore the Board of Directors and Overseers. I'm on the Subcommittee on the investigation of the private development of the banks. Then I'm on the Committee to Presidency, and hence on the Council Board with a responsibility there and vice president, which means that I sometimes do the duty of being such at council meetings. It's just a Senate job. Besides, politicians have to do the party work. There are an enormous number of responsibilities that depend on us. I just wanted to put this into the discussion. Many senators have talked about this, and people have asked: " What are you members of Congress really doing? And under these hats, if we can say so, or a matter of responsibility, I now have about 23 active parts in the Senate work. Being able to have assistants to keep my arms around it makes me ask: What does this legal, am I making the right decision based on my policies based on what I was elected to do? That is priceless. I couldn't do my job any other way. This bill will make my job better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u37	V.E.G. President. First, I'm going to agree with the words that were before him. paritaprevir A year's son Ármannsson for a hell of a talk on this subject, very extensive and excellent. The issue we're dealing with here is not new, it was in the rush of time, just before the crash, but in the wake of the crash, all such plans for further assistance with the council and members of Congress were placed on the shelf until now that we're coming out of the water and can resume the induction of what was planned for them. The International Assembly of Iceland's Parliament has made more changes in legal markets than in other neighboring countries, and the discussion here is often much longer and much longer than in the surrounding councils because it is being handled in such a way that there may not be much discussion in itself. It is often and frequently delivered, so it is not as time - consuming as it is for us. Then, too, it is important. In recent years it has been far more important to know that so - called Senate cases are presented here and that they in themselves have more careers than were some years ago, although most of them end naturally by passing on to us by the ruling authorities at any given time. That is quite another matter, but they make it to the council program and often reach committees. It is an improvement, and we may live at some point to get some matter of approval at the council of the dominant part of the day. This means that if we want to call it, we will do much more than the members of many other nations and that we will take the initiative. This is a quiet time, and this requires considerable assistance, i.e. Writing to make a good bill and/or a conquistador if you don't have the education. It's not a simple thing. Hence, it should be welcomed that according to this, it appears that at first three members of the Parliament will treat one employee with them, surmountly. This is the reverse ratio to e.g. England, the lower language room of the English Parliament, where each member has three assistants. But that's where we're not taking this step. This may show just the comparison of the local job situation. When this case was won, there was a political landscape at the council in a somewhat different way than it is now. They may not have seen it coming, and they can be seen as being unconcerned to see that a group of two members of the council would be with three helpers. That is a bit of a contradiction to what larger groups have at the council. But this is for reasons that no one could handle except the group involved, and in itself there is nothing to say on this road. Of course, future events need to be looked to, that if a man - made body changes during an elected period, it is possible to react. In fact, there is another factor that may be important in the making changes in terms of terms. Part of the money proposed by the State takes into account the number of members of that category. So it is a matter of concern if a large number of four men who have received money from that number, so you use that comparison, all of which will be one of two members, while the party remains the money he had been assigned for four members. These are steps that may not have been possible in the past but will definitely be taken into account when times pass and when we see the effect of this matter, how it will develop in us. I've often said that in both this chair and the Prime Committee, where I sit, it's to us senators to be accused if the public, our voters, has the wrong picture of what we're doing. That's what we're to blame for, because then we're not introducing the work well enough to the person we're working for. We do not fully realize that the work is done not only here but also in committees, including meetings, both with voters and others. We need to be enlightened, and there is no one other to blame than us. If the public and our voters think that this work is light and lazy and capable of working with our left hand, we are to be blamed simply because we have not fully informed about what this job involves. I hope that as time passes, the council will at some point and in some way introduce the public, to the voters, to the senator's work. I think it might be very interesting for voters to get e.g. To join one senator, I'm talking about, for example. with the help of television cameras, either a day or a week, and with the help of what is available at this time. This could give people insight into the scope of this work. This bill here means in the foundation, as I said earlier, that three senators are involved with one assistant. It is a step in the right direction, and I'm sure it will help us to do this more difficult work, that we can, in turn, present more and better things each one of us, so that I will support this matter with a complete mind and hope that there will be a clear way through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u38	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a board of committees on bill support for publishing books from the General and Education Committee. It is a administrative bill from the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture, found on deck. 178, No. 176. The Committee has discussed the matter and received its meeting with Loftsdóttir Ingason from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, Karítas H. Gunnarsdóttir of Education and Culture, Ingimarsdóttir Jón Jóhannsson from the Ministry of State, Rósa V. Einarsson of Stymund, Margrét Júlíus Svansson, Bergrún Erlingur, Íris Sævarsdóttir from the Book of Music. Stefán Helgason from Stytel, Aðalsteinn's Library of Akjólólólðsson, Gjöfjörjörgnarsson, Iðnar Friðbjörg, and Gunnar Örn. A statement on the subject was received by Ásf., the Alliance of Icelandic artists, the Society of Icelandic bookmakers, Hagmenski, the Audio Book of the Ages., Listen to ehf., National Library of University, Nexus Entertainment ehf., the National Association of Iceland, the United States's U.S. Children's Children and Youths's Office, the Story Hotel in Iceland, and the head of Social Affairs. Before I review the committee's opinion. I'm going to refer to a synonym that is before the council and is being discussed at the beginning. A proposal to promote Icelandic as official case in Iceland from the U.S.A. Secretary of education and culture. It says: ▪ The Council concludes on the importance of Icelandic language and the need to ensure that the language will remain in all areas of Icelandic society. A three - year strategy will be implemented in this area in broad cooperation. Anyone living in Iceland shall have the opportunity to learn and use Icelandic for a general purpose in Icelandic society. They shall have the right to use Icelandic in any contact with government organisations and enterprises which provide or sell services to the public. A Law on Icelandic and Icelandic Sign Language, No. 61/2011 Our main objective is then expressed: In all areas of society, there will be any use of Italians. Icelandic training will be promoted at all levels of school, along with the training and development of teachers. The future of an Icelandic language in a digital world will be guaranteed. The proposal follows an action program, which is a conscious awakening to the Icelandic language and is under the heading "U.S.A., " and has to do with all aspects of national life. Education and school activities are one area, and culture differs from that of a national program. Committee, private media, literature. It says that editions of books will be brief because of the importance of Icelandic editions for the development of the language and for the development of readings. More factors are listed involved in technological development, bioavailability and innovation, policy, administrative and employment. But I'm going over the committee's opinion. The General and Education Committee involved in this strategy so that we have some basis for the source of the problem. The bill, so that I return to the Commission's opinion of it, is suggested to establish a support system for the bookmakers because of the cost of publishing books in Icelandic, allowing certain criteria to be met, to reimburse 25% of the costs of such publication. This would include providing temporary support in the form of reimbursement of part of the cost of publishing books in Icelandic, of the 25% of the cost of publishing in Iceland in other countries in the EEA area within the EFTA or in the Faeroe Islands. It is suggested that a three - man committee discuss requests for reimbursement to be received at the latest nine months after the publication of a book. It is expected that the supporting system will apply from January 1, 2018, to be reviewed by 31 December 2023. A book is one of the most important features of Icelandic culture, and its value in protecting and supporting the English language is undisputed. In a government contract, the highest. Government reports that one of its aims is to eliminate worth tax on books. Then it is stated in the government budget for the year 20191⁄223 that it is intended to eliminate worth tax on books from the start of 2019. So it is clear that since then, i.e. with the value tax, but in view of this, it was decided to set up a team of workers in the financial and economic department who were assigned to cross possible routes in these areas. The service group was assigned to examine both the direct route and other specific measures that might be comparable to the decomposition of a worthy tax. Thus, the benefits and failings of various means were considered, but the results of the work group were the ones we are going over here, a so - called support guide that consists of reimbursement of a set proportion of expenses due to the publication of books for certain conditions fulfilled. The main objective of the bill is to support and promote the publication of books in Icelandic to protect Icelandic cases that are being hit, as well as to promote locks. On October 5th, I'm out. wrote the Prime Minister and Education and Culture Minister under the will of a declaration of awareness on the importance of Icelandic affairs as well as the representatives of Iceland's Teacher Association, the University of Iceland, the Union of Icelandic rural society and home and school. According to the declaration, a wide - scale ground for cooperation will be used to attract attention and interest in Icelandic languages, promoting active use of the language, and promoting a more positive attitude, especially among children and adolescents, to the Icelandic language. On this occasion, the Ministry of Education and Culture showed that cooperation was important in turning defense to the Icelandic language offense and that examples of steps to take on this road were measures to support the publication of books in Icelandic languages. The suggested route in this bill is considered to be more effective than the cost taxation pathway, and more efficient and can be seen as an example in temporary support of movies and recordings. The support to the publication of the bill is intended to act as the motivation for the bookmakers. The well - prepared edition has gathered and the publishers'operating position has deteriorated. A book is one of the most important features of Icelandic culture, and its value in protecting and supporting the English language is undisputed. Hence, this is the primary objective and in accordance with the laws and roles of the State, as stated at 1. 2.g. for the status of the Icelandic language, to respond to this trend, and to promote it in this way in the English language, and to improve the locks of young people. The consumer's progress is expected to include a reduction and an increased selection, e.g. with increased version of audio and electrical books. Following comments on the bill and the coverage of the matter with visitors, the committee has decided to offer some adjustments to the bill. I'm going to review them as explained by the committee's opinion and point to another part of it. 724 where these adjustments are made. It's suggested to 2nd floor. there is also a law that does not apply to the publication of public contacts on books. There are two adjustments made to Article 3. On the one hand, an addition to the definition of the term "book " is provided for writing under it. With a order of writing, e.g. refers to books that regularly come out of the same name, numbered or unnumbered, e.g. Books such as Lakka, Mittens, and Loveful, that do not include magazines. However, the definition of when a book is published is added so that it will be referred to the Antiis library. These are proposed to change the 5th floor. First, that it is possible to set a budget of less than 1 million. K. the cost of publishing certain types of books alone - and this was specifically shown in the discussion of the subject and the comments of those who published electronic books; here we are responding so that this amount can be lowered in the Regulation. Second, there is the addition of the requirement that the applicant confirm payment to authors or jurists. The committee also suggests that the area is 8 p.m. will be improved by a new paragraph on reimbursement under the law. Such a law is in accordance with the law on temporary reimbursement of filmmaking in Iceland. Finally, an adjustment of 2 mg is proposed. Count 9. and 1st. 10th par. and adjustment of references to Article 2 paragraph 11. The bill, the Regulation. According to 1st mg. Section 4. the bill shall receive a reimbursement application at the latest nine months after the publication of a book. That's 3 mg. Section 8. It should be noted that the application should be rejected if a reimbursement application takes place after nine months from the publication of a book. The committee points out that all things cannot be predicted and that events like this are possible. it was in a way that the applicant had been in good faith that an application was submitted at the right time but that external events that the applicant cannot control can lead to an application not being allowed to run within a legal deadline. Can be used there, e.g. There are external and unpredictable external events, as you might imagine mistakes involving the receipt of applications or the procedure with the Committee, for example. if a book is lost at the right time, although an application was definitely sent before a legal deadline came out. The situation needs to be assessed at each time, but it can be quite burdensome for the candidate if an application is automatically rejected if it comes after a legal postponement due to events that the applicant himself has not been able to control. Of course, there are many words about such a simple object. If something comes up that is unpredictable and not in the hands of an applicant, then it is probably a matter of handling such an incident. According to Article 11. has a secretary's authority to establish a law order, including: can indicate a postponement of reimbursement, which may be higher than the financial resources of the General Assembly. The committee points to the need for this and points to 41 st. The Constitution that no fee can be paid unless it is authorized in financial or financial terms. You can also refer to Article 1. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015, of the efficient and practicalness of the government of the state. An example for the continuation of reimbursement is under law on temporary reimbursement for filmmaking in Iceland, No. 43/1999, and temporary reimbursement of music, No. 110/2016. According to the bill, the legislation will apply to the end of 2023 and shall be the minister before the end of 2022. The committee feels that it will also be considered whether to reimburse a single task. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson writes this in advance and in advance. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, a member of the Committee meeting as an officer of the hearing, agrees with this view. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with these above adjustments made in a special Senate document, as I mentioned earlier. The Member State number 724 is included in this language, which has 176 languages on the support of the publication of books in Icelandic. Under the opinion of this publication at the General Assembly of December 12, 2018. Councilmen Páll Hrafn, chairman of the General and Education Committee, Dr. Willum Þór Þórsson, Gunnarsson Andri Thorsson, Árnadóttir Terrathóttir, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnústótir, Árnadóttir Kolbönnadóttir, Birgir Ármannsson, Mól Höfán Gónsson and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, and makes him aware of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u39	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. For this matter, a senator and prominent historian, Willum Þór Þórsson. The committee held a good discussion, and the matter is well worked, according to my opinion. There are proposed changes that I think all of them are on the verge of improving the bill. As noted in the history of a dog. I've signed this committee opinion in advance, so I just wanted to explain why I'm doing it a little bit. The goal of the bill and the main objective is I don't think so. We want to increase the road and respect of the Icelandic language. We want to make sure that it is used and available in written form for those who can and would like to read it in Icelandic. There is, therefore, no disagreement on the objective of this matter. Of course, the wisest way to reach this goal is to ask, where I have some doubts. To take care of the Icelandic language and make sure it can be used, I think, is not just a question about a number of published books. In recent years and decades, and probably ever, Icelanders have been very booky, and they publish and have always done and still make huge numbers of books. Of course, they do so primarily in English. Of course, books in foreign languages are here, and they are well. The important thing is that the invitations are good and useful books in Icelandic languages. When I say good and good, I mean in a very broad sense. Of course, they can be all kinds of things, all kinds of things, and of all kinds. To me, books, whether traditional books or books in electronic form or any other form that may exist in the future, are the key to reading them. The important thing is that people read. This includes the need to be access to readable accounting, and in this context, I think it would be wise to look for ways to make books available. To a degree, we have a distribution system for books that are museums, libraries, for at least The more traditional books, and where I would like to look at schools, from elementary schools, and from high school. These books need to be accessible, and they need encouragement to be used. The trend has now been that way, including Because we are always in our time, looking to the future, cutting down books in school. It's not necessarily electronic books that replace them. Libraries are under attack, and they do not have enough books, especially because they are somehow minimized by humans. I think it's a big opportunity to share books and literature. In this context, it is of utmost importance that teaching material be available in English, that textbooks, textbooks, and, of course, fiction are available and in English. There is quite a lack of available literature for children and students. I believe that this is the main point, and it is not necessarily the most competitive one to make sure that it is published as most of the books as possible. I'm not necessarily sure. Now is so strange that I think in many homes, at least in people who are, I don't want to say older ones like me, but, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! It is filled with basements of books, good books, excellent literature that no one ever looks to. Because we're an Christmas book people, we've got ourselves the idea that books are actually bred as soon as Christmas is finished. You read your work with pleasure, and in some way the books are out - of - date. It's like old books can't be given for Christmas or good books for Christmas, it's pured. What I'm trying to say is that I think it's much more important that we make the book or the written language, the reading language, the current and accessible, and I'm not quite sure that this is the best way. I would have thought that there was one way to strengthen the libraries, to strengthen them so that they could buy books, and to buy literature, and to buy access to electrical books for students, and to publish good textbooks in any parent. You know that in high school, for example. is being taught a variety of natural products more and less in foreign languages that are difficult for students to understand. I think it would be better if you could read such books and such books in English, textbooks of course, and poets. The question is, would it be more convenient for us to develop a system that could be built up by some kind of competitive funds in which people apply and say: " I have an idea for a book of these kinds and for the strength to publish or write it, rather than having the strength in the arrangement that it is so universal? ' I completely agree with the objective. Even though there have been some good reasons for this process, I am not entirely convinced that it is the best. On the other hand, the bill is designed in such a way that if it becomes legal, the law will be reviewed after a few years, and the result will be evaluated. Then I think it must be at least Two things to consider, except for the number of titles published in Icelandic and whether they have increased since that law went into effect. You must also look back at things in time to try to see if these changes have led to some change, but the main point must be that you have read books more. If a book is not read in this effort, it has not worked as it is supposed to be. I'm fully aware of that, and I'm not beinglittled because everyone has good intentions in these matters, and I'm sure my ideas are not necessarily much better than the ones mentioned in the bill. The point and the point is that, regardless of how we want to approach it, we can increase reading of ourselves as well as of anyone who wants to and who can read good books, good works in Icelandic language. I agree with that objective, but I have doubts about the route. That's why I sign the bill in advance and we kind of sit there. It is virtually in nature that the bill is likely to succeed. I've taken the stand that I will, of course, not vote against it, but I rather expect to sit next to the hearing. I want to say again that the matter was well worked on the committee and in a good agreement, and the men were not very angry, although they may not fully agree, for no reason at all, and the matter has improved in the conduct of the committee, and of course I participated in the Committee's work to promote it, and that's why I am on the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u40	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson for a fine talk, and I agree with a lot of these and many good ideas there. However, I am moved to protest that there are too many books to be kept. While quality is certainly more important than quantity, it is impossible to have too many good books, whether they are in English or in any other language.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u41	President. Thank you. An excellent answer from a senator. Of course, people look at their own books. I think a lot of people feel the same way. A senator, that there is not enough good books around you and that it is always good to be able to fit in all kinds of books. We know that a collection of books has been passionful, in effect, to tell you that the Icelanders started writing the Icelandic stories. It has been good in cultures to have many books, and most Icelandic homes, especially in the past, are full of books. I think, without a particular interest in me now, that books and book cabinets take fewer separate walls in the homes of younger people than older ones, but strongly reiterate that they are completely said without responsibility, and, of course, there are many exceptions. I'm the kind of person who can't throw away a book. It's totally impossible for me because a book is a book and a book you don't throw away. I'm lucky, I have a big storage facility. Then the generations come and go, and it accumulates books, so I have a very generous library that is now in storage and is not really used very much. But they're there. I won't throw them away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u42	A respectable president. I'm mostly up here to thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk by Valdimarsson, son of Valdímdar, and many good things were presented in it. I want to thank you too. A senator, as well as other members of the General and Education Committee, for good cooperation. I'll fuck about the same thing as before. paritaprevir Brynjarsson Bribertsson, the thing about the books, too many books. I have to admit, it's easy for me to dispose of books and that I've done a lot of that in my time. I have received many books from natural sources, and I have been able to dispose of them gradually that I do not want to have. There are others I would like to have. So maybe I'll find a book I didn't want to have, but I wanna have it again, etc. Books have afterlife, they die, and then they come back to life, and we never really know what it's like to do. A book is a wrapping of thoughts, wrapped around untraceable life that forms in a brain and reaches another brain. I wanted to pray. A senator thinks only about whether it's okay to think that there's a lot of books and that's just fine, even though so much books are discarded and no longer exist and is out of the market because it's out of market for them. In other words, whether there is so much trouble with the existence of many books. It is naturally produced a large amount of e.g. chairs or chocolates or all kinds of goods that have their lives, i.e. material things. The ideas continue to exist. [[The president calls.]] But then it's discarded, and then it's all right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u43	President. Thank you. A senator resists. Surely, it was to be expected that these conversations could become a little fun. My fellow councilmen will not fail the confidence I put in them to do some interesting things for them. Granted, there are never too many books, and there is no harm to it, though a man has a basement full of books or there are many books published, not at all. I think that while Icelanders and so everyone wants to buy books, whether in traditional form or in some kind of new shell or in the packaging of imagination, there's nothing wrong with it. I'm not supposed to be able to understand that there should be four books, five books published each year, and that would just be good in the people. Not at all. The core thing in my case is that there are good books, they are accessible, and we think that there are reliable books in certain fields, and now I know that people can debate their fields, but I may look primarily at the school system. If there are no good books, textbooks, and textbooks in English that you are familiar with, I think that there is a much greater risk that people cannot, will not, would not, read for pleasure, and for instruction as they grow up. That's basically the point of what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yes, there must be good books, that is absolutely correct, and good books need to be readily available. But I think that in order for good books to exist, there must also be bad books, and books need to be good and there must be a lot of books. In other words, this must be a field. This needs to be a fruitful field, where all kinds of flowers grow, and as I understand this bill, it is trying to create such an advantage for this field that there may be more growth and more to thrive and more, but not just because of difficult external circumstances and the Icelandic book market will not be like a strip. Now I'm going to stop this allegorical. What I mean is primarily, and I hope that. A senator would agree that our competitiveness is promoting an Icelandic book market so that it could produce good books that promote our language and culture, as well as increase our knowledge of young people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u45	President. Thanks for the counter-regulating and meditation. Yes, I surely agree that it is very important that there is fertile soil and all kinds of books, and I agree that if you have never read bad things, you just think all books are like this and you don't realize that they're wrong. I think these goals can be achieved even if people do not go on the bill. As we know, we are very effective in publishing books. Now I'm not talking about the multitude, but that there's plenty of vegetation, a fruitful field, and it's springing out of it. I may not feel the same way about it being all lying around or going out of the water if a general procedure is not taken out by anyone who takes a job or makes a job somehow. I don't think so. But the main thing seems to me, so I repeat, that the books are as accessible as possible, that I think the best support in the end is that we can have them available - there, of course, also play into bookstores, the price of books, I realize that - but that, in particular, younger people can grow up with books at least at her school.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u46	V.E.G. President. I'm glad we've arrived to discuss the committee opinion of a bill to support the publication of books in Icelandic. Thank you. An authority for a good and careful review of the matter and the presentation of it all. The case is a result of the highest severity. Minister of Education and Culture, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, recommended a administrative bill for support in publishing books on our beloved shirt language. It is suggested to establish a support system that allows directly reimbursement for the publication of books in English in printed form and electronic form. So, at the same time, strive to hold on to things that are good and old but also to meet new times and technology. This is of utmost importance, for the world is changing rapidly. We are no longer living in a satellite age - in what century are we living? Yes, there's a lot of technical progress and a lot of harassment in the world. As we have seen, the main objective of supporting and strengthening the publication of books in Iceland is to protect Icelandic languages that are going to strike along with increasing locks. On October 5th. wrote the Prime Minister and Education and Culture Minister under the will of a declaration of awareness on the importance of Icelandic affairs as well as the representatives of Iceland's Teacher Association, the University of Iceland, the Union of Icelandic rural society and home and school. According to the declaration, a wide - scale ground for cooperation will be used to attract attention and interest in Icelandic languages, promoting active use of the language, and promoting a more positive attitude, especially among children and adolescents, to the Icelandic language. On this occasion, the Ministry of Education and Culture showed that cooperation was important in turning defense to the Icelandic language offense and that examples of steps to take on this road were measures to support the publication of books in Icelandic languages. This is a matter that has been a cause for great hearts and struggles, and that is why our hearts rejoice over the fact that these things have come here. It has to be said, as it is, that some have predicted the death of the Icelandic language, so seriously have been viewed, or that it will at least not live very much longer. That is the situation in a changed world, an environment. A large part of Icelandic children grow up in English environments. It's getting very simple to get on the Internet. A young child or a native may approach a brilliant device, obtain videos on YouTube and Netflix, and so forth, often perform a much higher level of adult activity. There is a whole other world in which we live but before, and many children who are beginning to learn English in elementary school, or most, are so - called false starters. They are not beginners in that field, and they are starting to study on a completely different basis than we, who are older, who grew up in a linear television program, if they were there. I can tell stories from my hometown, and from my children, what they grew up with. A lot of people seem to be in a long distance, but I can't admit it, no older than I am. This is serious. This has been studied. A study can be referred to as the leading language specialist in Europe. Two hundred experts arrived at 60 centres. There was evidence that most Europeans, including Icelandic, are at risk of digital death and are endangered in a digital age. We need to be aware of this because we are going, as we have declared, in a government contract, to promote the English language; that is the purpose of the government. I'd like to go back to that, like why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson made that, along with this bill, it has the highest. Secretary of Education proposes a plagiarization proposal to promote the Icelandic language. She even hides. In that everyone should have an opportunity to learn English. It all fits very well in this operation plan. I think that it is extremely important to cultivate English at all levels of school. This action plan is a wake-up call, but it has the heading "U.S.A. How happy we are that we have come to this place with it! There's been a lot of fun discussions about books and books here in Iceland. We're raised to it, Icelanders, we're in here, talking about a so-called Christmas book flood. It's Reverend, from what I hear. In other communities there are Christmas dresses and Christmas dinners, but the Icelandic Santas and the Christmas Booklets and the leafbread would be considered pretty well Icelandic. I think it's good to hold on to this. It was interesting to hear someone talking about the existence of too many books. It must always be a matter of taste or an assessment. However, I can agree that the availability of books is important. Then, too, we need to look at the kind of image we are. A child who never sees an adult taking a book and reading it is not likely to do it himself. It is in our hands, our grown-ups, to open this world to children. I have often thought, " What panic I feel with people who don't know the feeling of getting caught up in a book and disappearing into her world! ' But I am afraid that there are ever more people who have never experienced the joy and satisfaction that this brings to us. There are, of course, libraries. They vary from country to country. I think they'll be more useful since they're linked to the schools or other institutions that are open to people. Now, I'm just throwing it out as my brain sprays. I haven't had an investigation. But there must be some link between display and access to books. So I can agree with that at any point. paritaprevir Steindór Valdimarsson, but I don't trust to see if there are too many books or what. Granted, drying books and cleaning stores is a lot of work, but it can also be fun. You can remember many things and grab a book and forget about it from boring work. But there's another story we don't have to go into here. Regarding Icelandic and its importance, I'd like to mention that I think there's a lot of good things going on. There were a lot of fun in the national television on Icelandic; interesting approaches and upbuildings and good things. That's fine. There's something else about the music, it's rap music, people raping in Icelandic. It is now an art of finding out the rhythms, the manner in which it is served, and the presentation. I think it's good, it's a positive step, and we're supposed to encourage young people to do it. I was mainly going to talk about how happy I am in my heart that this matter has come to this point. The way that is presented here is the result of a group of people meeting and working on them and speaking down in that way. It's been a long time since the first talk was about taking credits off books. The other day, I published a book I had given my mother - in - law about 1990. Inside it was a book written by the Icelandic book editors: A student's worth tax on books. So it's not quite new and could even be older than that. There is every reason to welcome this action in the interest of Icelandic literature. The effects of the bill come from others. to increase the supply of books and to the level of consumers. Strengthening the foundation of publishing companies lay the basis for a more efficient publishing process that again makes writers an important and essential channel for doing works. That's what it says. Then consumers will benefit with a variety of materials, hopefully with lower prices and more accessible in some cases, as has been done in many cases. As a teacher, I have used various ways to increase my interest in reading and reading. In some Critics, people have been preoccupied with what are good books and what are inferior books or that specific kinds of books are better than others. I don't want to look at things that way. It all needs to exist. As a fine senator put it: To know when you have good material in your hands, you also need to read a inferior book. At my old workplace, there was an experiment, and I pulled out books that weren't very well written. At that point, certain students became interested, and they began to read. At times, we need to find the right place and the right time, and that is not always the first thing we see. We need to put forth effort. The bill is a part of current Icelandic translation, which is part of an advanced lock. In the past 10 years, a colporteur in Iceland has been attracted by 36%. That's a worry. We need to be careful of these matters. To meet the tremendous competition as a form of recreation in various languages, an Icelandic youth needs to be able to access interesting and interesting literature in English. By promoting increased reading and thus increasing reading, we contribute to education for everyone. A locked nation will go further when it comes to building a mind - working economy here. Finally, I want to thank all those who have worked on this important and good matter and express my support for it. It says here that the assessment should be made. This should apply to 2023 and be performed at the end of 2022. It will be exciting to see the results. I hope we're on the right path and the right path that I really believe, we're doing good things. I'm happy to express my full appreciation for the support of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u47	A respectable president. Some time ago, just now in November and October, I traveled all over the country, including the United States. Up to the West and the East, for young people in the elementary schools of the country. It was really fun. There I discovered that in about most schools, both in the capital area and in the country, the time of reading is wonderful, and that kids are reading all kinds of books, not only in English, but also in English in class. That's a great move. A school degree that is based on the Bible writership is truly an excellent initiative, and it allows writers to get to know their best readers. I'd like to recall that in the Golden Age of Icelandic literature, when the Icelandic novels were written, which, yes, may be the reason why our case still exists and we had to demand sovereignty and independence, there was no merit tax on the books written, either on the ink, on the calfskin, or on the labor of the job. I wish I hadn't. You see, I think it's a little cowardly to yield to the system and simply don't take off the valuable tax. I've been afraid that the distribution of these sponsors can become too complex and it's too much committee work and that simpler solutions may be more suitable for longer periods of time. Then I think we should look to other Western European countries that have dropped worth tax on books and that we have no problem with it any more than we have to put down some valuable tax on salmon fish or something like that. It's the middle of which this bill focuss very much on, i.e. on the bookmakers. I have little concern that with such subsidies, we prepare people to increase the cost of making books, just to get the most out of it and to be able to use it in a house - to - house service, which may be a very positive influence, for if something is needed in the Icelandic textbooks, it is good editors. There are not enough of them in proportion to the authors. I would like to see more active editors in the country and a powerful editor not to understand that my own editor is not quite great. We have some great editors who are now active, but they must say at the moment they are few employees. But why do I think that merely removing a valuable tax would be a better way? I think it's more reasonable, both to the bookstores and so to the writers themselves, because at the moment writers in collective agreements share the entire price of sale, and if this gives the strength to push the bookkeepers down in the entire market rather than in stores, I worry that we'll be less equipped. I'm very worried about it because there's a lot of poverty among artists in Iceland today. There are many writers who are poor, some of whom are even known nationally. That's a hell of a ruckus. Perhaps we need to take another discussion about raising an artist's salary so that we can live on it. We don't need to be afraid of it, for more part of the country favors artists, people want to strengthen Icelandic writers, artists, musicians, etc. Nor do we need to be afraid of any of these materials. We also know that this kind of strength pays much back, not only in increasing production, but also in the possession of immortal art and lock - up children. I'd like to get into the reading of children too. We should not underestimate the positiveness of new media. Icelandic children now gain a lot of culture. I'm sure they can read pictures better than older generations. I'm sure they're very good in English, and we may forget certain areas when we talk about protecting English. We forget, for example. Video games in this context. At one time, a political decision was made to make that children's material should be texted or spoken of, and much effort was made there. We have never predicted that if a large amount of leisure time and time of reading video games, we may be able to do some sort of effort in that area, simply to create more Icelandic material available on the Internet or simply to translate electronic games. This is something that we should consider seriously and consider the cost. But I have no doubt that it would improve Icelandic English, especially boys. But as mentioned earlier, I'm a little worried about Icelandic writers'earnings. I'm concerned that many Icelandic artists live under poverty limits. I think that we often see it in conversations of honor and so forth that members of Congress are told that some great old master lives in poverty. There may be a measure of shyness in talking about it, but we should not be shy about it. We're also allowed to make more of our honors. We can bring honor to those whom we honor, even to a conference at some part of the local council of life's work, and we can really introduce to people why we are in charge to honor people in such a way. But for my conscience's sake, I can't right now vote with this bill. I just don't think it's good enough. I don't think it's the right way. It's wrong. We are simply going to skip the merit tax and watch, for example. To Norway or to other countries that buy out a quantity of books and then distribute them across the country. I think that's the right way to handle this. Then we can look at other ways, and perhaps we could add some adjustment to the bill to take the mail into it. We were discussing the mail earlier today. I know that, for example. from my experience in living in France, I got a discount when I was sending books boxes to Iceland, because the French have a law that if French literature, they'll pay off mails. I'm sure it would be helpful to museums in the country, or just people in the country, that I don't talk about people who want to take advantage of the Christmas Book of Christmas to send out a beautiful package and a good Christmas gift for someone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u48	A respectable president. I'm here primarily on the platform to describe my support for this bill. I've been involved in its implementation in a global and educational committee, and I believe it's worth the effort to put into practice, since what I'm saying wasn't in my head. paritaprevir Shenob Brynjarsson Snæbjörn of Brass, that had been the best way, i.e. ... oftheprecaution of a tax on books. That way not only would it have indicated that we as a nation, as well as other nations, view our literature and our literature as something special but our language and literature as something special that we would like to do for ourselves and would like to preserve. I'd like to agree too with what. A senator in what he said earlier about the need for us to consider selecting artists who are being taught. Often these are people who have not been able to pay in a pension fund; they have not been in partners other than their artists'communities; nor have they had a pension system. It has been hard for all its artistry and has simply been unable to save much, so it is in a special situation, and it is often in a very difficult situation because of it, even though the people are indebted to these people for what they have brought to the nation. But I support this bill. If all of this is impossible now, and if this route proves to be complicated and difficult and does not result in anything, then the regulations that make Ministers obliged before the end of 2022 should be evaluated for the results of the support contained in the bill. The law goes to the end of 2023. What's a book? You may wonder, " Why are we doing this on a different level and what we're dealing with? ' True, there's a good definition of a book in the bill, and I'm not going to read it. It's much better than I'm referring to those who want a legal definition of a book. I'm actually thinking about it myself in this part of the talk. As I mentioned earlier, a book may be just a wrapping of ideas and thinking. Books contain just words and words that are not pictures, but they are imprinted on pictures. We read words, and then we define words, and the words form images, images, ideas, and mental inclination in our brains. When we read about people's lives, life and fate, all kinds of life, even a strange soul life, or just a very normal soul life, or just plain and unusual soul life at the same time, and we read about how people can be wrapped up in all kinds of things, our thinking develops in a certain way that it does not do by other artism, that the art use is completely out of place. There are many things films have ahead of literature, and there are many things music has ahead of literature, and that is how it can continue to be counted. But the literature has this particular thing, that if you make it successful, if you don't even need to do anything so well, the literature has it to bear the fact that it enhances our gift to the survival of another person. They thus enhance our association with other people, and they also enhance our gift to abstract thinking, i.e. absolute thinking, because we're just translating letters into images and ideas. We do not see the part directly. Rather, we need to translate it into something else, which can develop our thinking. In this way literature could help mature people in some way that other arts or other human endeavors do not. By the effort involved in this bill, we are not just promoting the English language and not just trying to promote an Icelandic book market, we are trying to promote spiritual life in the country, and we are trying to help make it more difficult and better. Then it is our natural goal to improve our relationship with one another. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson's reaction was only a few moments ago - we had a place to say about bad books and good ones, and we agreed that at times we would need to read bad books in order to find out that good books are good books. But that is not just what this is about; it may also be the same as that there are bad books, and they need adequate books, and they need rather dull books, and they need to be available to everyday books so that brilliant works can rise and thrive. It is not merely the comparison; it is because good books come from bad books. There may be 100 very bad books on some subject, and then a writer, who may be brilliant and brilliant, all of these books, and he can think of some way that leads to a good book, but the basics for the brilliant works are all the bad books, or perhaps all the medium books. There must be moderate acts. We need mediocrity. It often wants to be forgotten because there will never be a genius unless there is a moderateness, the low fruits exist. In order for the averageness to exist and all of this to exist, there must be the field I was talking about earlier in my counter-whide. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson. Then there needs to be a powerful literature platform, and that field, I don't think, will develop unless you have a job. Hv. paritaprevir Snæbjörn Brasbjörðursson Brynjarsson off earlier that there had to be a good editor. We both know this from our good experience in the work of such ones. But good editors can only live and work for them to work in fate, and they can survive their reward, and there is a literature society in which they can thrive. What we're trying to do in this bill as I understand it is that we're trying to promote this literary community, to promote this literary field in the belief that by it everyone, not only the book guardians, not just the employees of the book proposals, not just the accountants, and not just readers, who hopefully get less expensive books, but the writers. Books do not exist in voids. Books don't just come out of our heads all at once, and then we just put them on the market. There is an accurate knowledge that must be involved not only in creating a book as an object but also in building poets as a whole and in unity and bringing it into the market. It also requires certain knowledge and skills that arise over the years from the book code. We are trying to contribute to the continuation of that knowledge and skill. I understand why. paritaprevir Dr. Snæbjörn's Brynjarsson, who has also been wooded by authors' spokesmans and identified with writers when their representatives came to our home, may reduce authors' income by reducing the price of books, i.e. a total price on books is reduced because treaties require authors to get their share of the price of books. This is understandable, and this is a concern, but our hope is that an increase in books will not only cause writers to get the same thing but also give them more for what they have done. But there must be experience, as with this bill, in fact everything else. Books are stories and poetry. Civilization is, at the same time. paritaprevir The son of Brynjarsson went back to bed, one of the basics of Icelandic self-identification. The international stories and poetry produced over the centuries were the basic logic of the Icelanders for the idea that the Icelanders could generally be considered a special people, one that Danir, our fellow members of the Union, often found it difficult to understand. That's how it felt, for example. very progressive thinking, which often took the answer to the underdog, Georg Brandes, quote when the Icelanders wanted a special flag, wanted a special sea flag: Won't the inhabitants of Amager also want a special flag for themselves? He thought it was such a bad idea. He didn't understand that these people out there in the ocean considered themselves to be some special nation. And maybe it was also a strange, strange, mallet. But it was based on having its own language and having its very own culture, which included stories and poetry. This was the justification of the Icelanders for their national sovereignty and for their independence and the establishment of a special state. Books are special. The matter of our literature is of particular interest. It is worth the effort to promote the economy of Icelandic literature and to help them continue to be published in the future. The time will then come when books or literature will find a different channel, not the book. This is not yet the time, but we may have to pay the price for their transition to be remembered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u49	A respectable president. This is one of those things I don't quite know what to think of. For professional scholarships, there are many questions. First, there was a way to eliminate a worthy tax on books, but it ended up with the bill that is presented here for support in publishing books in Icelandic. As a matter of fact, I admit I'm against it. I believe, a respectable president, that it is very important that the tax system be simple and clear. Today we have two steps, and then there's also the exception that there's someone in the low-value tax system with zero tax, and as a result, we can tax all, which, of course, is a substantial donation to the relevant party, and I have to admit that this is the best way to think of even better. Here, too, we look at other types that we know, such as to form from the film industry. In general, though, I would like to say that I like more general action towards promoting employment and innovation in the country, such as the reduction in insurance fees we agreed on today. That's what counts, whether it's in a book version or anything else. I find it very helpful to see that there seems to be a great deal of solidarity on the subject. People from all categories of publications under the committee opinion are always good when we make things right. We live here in a very small language area, and it is a real challenge to keep English alive. We need to consider this, and I am absolutely convinced that the release of books in English is of vital importance. I'd especially like to mention children's books and teenage books, which have been quite a part of the discussion, and it's very clear that they're even lacking in it. I have heard many talk about the importance of role models, that my parents and I read and teach it to our children. I'll admit it's not going very well in my home. Although I like to take a book in my hands, I often have to torture my sons to do the same. They do so only because they are driven by the authorities or by their mother. Hopefully this will change in time, hopefully seeing the light in how pleasant it can be to sit over a good book. Here are fine discussions about good books, decent books, dirty books, and all kinds of books; that is, of course, a matter of taste, such as so many other things. I may find that a book is good that others think is not particularly good. Thus, it is not possible to focus on the support of good books, since it is a matter of taste. I agree with what's presented in the commission, that I think it's very important to watch how this works. There are always some pits that you can fall into when you're creating a system of strength. So I think it is extremely important to keep it under control and to observe the effects it has. The bill's report identifies the position of the Icelandic edition as a 40% recession in the period since 2008•2017. I'm not gonna cross those numbers, but I'd like to point out what I've heard in the discussion, i.e. that, of course, much has changed back then. There are entire libraries that may not be advisable to publish, to form maps, guides, and other travel books - we just use our phone to look up such things. I also mention dictionaries. Most people simply turn on the Internet or on their phone to look up such factors. In times past, we had to buy dictionaries to study high school and college. I don't think anybody's gonna do that now. I think there's a reason to keep that in mind when we talk about this dramatic figure, when we talk about 40% contractions. It may have some effect on this. Although I said I might have a little problem with this case, of course I will support it. I know the goal is good, and we can all agree with it. I hope that the actions here are being proposed to achieve the results required. I'd like to mention it -- I don't know how much it's about to be published elsewhere in Icelandic books - that this might be true in other countries in the EU economy or in the Faeroe Islands. Then I'll ask you, why not go to Greenland too? It's our neighbor country, so I just rolled it up. I don't know how many books are published in these countries, but if there's a market for them, that's the best thing. I'm not going to extend the discussion any further. In view of the great solidarity of the matter, I will support it. I hope that this will produce the expected results, but it also emphasizes that it is important to keep our arms tight and to monitor closely the results of these substances.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u50	A respectable president. I kind of have to object to what was said at the time. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir says it's a complicated or difficult thing to stop the merit tax. It is only a matter of fact that cultural activity is free of valuable taxation, and there are even some types of activities that are not culturally bound to him. Other neighboring nations have gone that way. It's the most simple and the most long-ranged thing in the world. That is why it is somewhat ironic to hear this coming from the right side of this way, for this arrangement really involves creating some sort of booth. We're going to some committee that's going to be on the payroll and wondering what to repay and what not to pay, all too complicated. The most simple route is 0% worth of extra tax. It's not complicated. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u51	A respectable president. I realize there are differences in opinion. However, it is one thing to take certain job items or arts out of the value of the tax system, as a result, taxes are not available and taxes cannot be collected from them, and other privileges to be within the worthy tax system in 0%. That's what I was saying, that's a tremendous amount of medicine. It always allows risk home to sell something in the lower step and in the higher step and in the zero step. How should this be made up, and what is classified as an IRS according to the other tax rate? I can give you an example. I started a business and published children's books, little puzzle books. A planned calendar. I would have preferred to call it a book and find some solution to its being a book, for then it would have gone down to the lower level of the tax. But the tax is exactly the same. And when you start renovating a business like that, there's always a bit of complications. They form booths, surveillance, and the tax system around them. This was designed to be a special reference to the traveling work back then when it was difficult to be at both a lower and a higher level. We have this problem all over the world. Idea of what? A senator who was certainly the first idea is, as it were, effective. Nevertheless, my opinion is that I feel more clearly that the tax system is as simple as possible and that we are not increasing its misunderstandings. As a result, I prefer to support this operation, which the Ministry of Economic and Business found out in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture, and a group who worked on their behalf, to go this way that is recommended in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u52	A respectable president. Other nations disagree with how complicated and difficult it is to give this tremendous gift of literature. In fact, the vast majority of European countries do not tax the publication this way, and it is quite remarkable in this region that for a long time we have had the highest book tax in Western Europe. I can't believe that a book edition survived that time of trouble. Then it was just so that once there was no tax on a book edition. It wasn't that complicated either. I'm very worried about the committee. I'm worried about who's gonna be sitting in it. I'm worried about how it will be put in. I don't think it's strange that the Ritual Association has anything to say about her appointment. But most of all, I'm upset that there's gonna be a committee. It is not fair and not neutral. But I'm gonna take out a merit tax, that's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I can totally agree that I'm a little worried about this. But that's exactly what I was trying to do in my speech, a respectable president, that I didn't think it was so easy. Well, in general, I want to level operations, e.g. to lower insurance costs and to make companies in the country clear and simple frames and that everyone could grow and thrive there. It would be a beautiful picture if it were. I admit that the Icelandic language area is a microspace, and there are many reasons why we need to take some action to protect the English and encourage a book reading. This is the conclusion. I see evidence in that. But as I also repeated earlier, I think it is very important to keep track of the progress of this case, what it really will be. But that does not change the view that I generally think the tax system is relatively simple. But that is not everywhere in Europe. Many countries have income taxes and extreme misunderstandings. But that doesn't completely harmonize with the less political thinking, it's still that we should have the system as simple and as clear as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u54	Mr. President. This evening there has been quite an interesting discussion of the bill to legalize the publication of books in Icelandic languages, as is true of many times in this Assembly Hall, when it is discussed in some way about the language of the United States. We often find it quite enjoyable to live, and it is especially pleasant to speak and to use the language's shades to express our views. And then when we add up that we're not only discussing our language but also books at the same time, then Christmas is coming, I think we can say exactly where we're going. I come up here primarily to describe my support for this matter, and I would like to mention a few things that I think are important. Only in the discussion have there been bad books in order to know the good books from the bad ones. Yeah, well, there's a lot of reasons for that. Yet, I think it is most important that there are all kinds of books for all kinds of readers. I think, for example. that it is important to have books as nine - year - olds, or at least some nine - year - olds feel great, but adults may not feel so good about it. I believe that the discussion and reasoning of food or taste in a book are simply good for the reading and language itself, and especially for young readers who are experimenting in both, i.e. increase the reading and practice of the language, but they can use these in the way of practice reasoning. That's why I just think it's important for adults to read children's books and write them to young readers, just as I think it's important for adults to read books specifically written for adults and to have reasons with other adults about them, because, as indicated in this bill, it's their primary goal to support and promote the publication of books in English in order to protect Icelandic language and by building locks. I'm pretty sure this is not the last bill that will be discussed here at the International Parliament and the Maintaining of the Language, or the possible development of the language. And I'm also pretty sure that this won't be the last bill that will deal with books or their status in any way. We are at the point where technology changes can change the status of books more than what has been in recent years. I'm in the middle of my life, but since I was a teenager, there's been quite a change in how we have learned literature. But that is not to say that even if we do so in some other way, we stop having literature. However, I put my hope into words and actually believe in the language that we have now discussed and discussed in the past. In accordance with what guests have proposed, which have visited the Committee, the Board of Education and other improvements, at least to the extent that we believe. I believe that it is a good entry into securing or promoting a wide variety of bookscrows in this country, thus being energized to protect and promote our language and read at the same time. I love the loneliness I've had in this matter. Although the way people want to approach them was quite a matter of variation, we, as it seems, agree completely on the main goal, much of a number of books. So I'm going to be very optimistic about making this bill the law tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u55	V.E.G. President. We are discussing support for publishing books in English. I just wanted to come here at the end and thank you for the discussion. The cause is excellent, and the occasion. The talk was fun, and I'm going to join with the final speaker, why. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra, aged Árnadóttir, who came here and talked about pleasant discussions. I'm not going to compare this with a discussion about budgets earlier today, it's a little different, which I'm going to agree with, this is really fun. I learned a lot about books and books. You can't have too much of them, said why. paritaprevir Brynjarsson Bribertsson. And preferably a whole field, said what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, as well as evil books, must dwell in that field. Then we come into the variety, form, media, and all, as well as the way it would have been better than the one that has been here supported by reimbursement, or the original route with respect, and, of course, there's evidence for and back. I'm not going to go through all that conversation, but still, all the advantages and weaknesses were involved. Hv. paritaprevir That was the case with Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, the faults of the merit tax. I've given a bill that turns to the sports movement on the cost tax, to waive it, or to cut off a merit tax, or to give a discount in some way because different ways can be taken. I'm thinking that, as suggested, decommissionment tax would have prevented the bookmakers from taxing themselves in return, and thus they would not have gotten as much out of it as this way. This way is clean. You can read in many of the reports from the World Bank Fund on how such an exception or other steps block the system. It offers a wide range of possibilities to transfer different types of products between those that should be taxed elsewhere, etc. It's not simple. There's a committee, some booth, some books and some sort of lawsuits, etc. But let's hope this works out just as we're putting up with it. At least it's cleaner. It is a procedure to further the publication of books and books markets and, at the same time, a part of the plan of action to promote the Icelandic language. I would greatly prolong this discussion if I was going to list all the things presented in excellent, enjoyable talks. But there will be a greater variety of selections, both formal and material, lower prices if dead bodies do, just as it would encourage reading. Let us hope this will reach the young generation. In this way, we support the Icelandic language and preserve our language, culture, and artists who are certainly the authors, thus promoting greater general prosperity. Then we've come to appreciate some kind of economic advantage. But we can also mention it, as it were. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson said, to promote spiritual life in the country. I can totally agree with that, too. This is a project like this. I sure hope it works. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture is required to pay close attention and review this 2022, and then we should go through all the factors presented in the discussion, which was really good discussions, and I especially thank her for all of them. members of the council who joined us. I'd also like to express my appreciation, because this was a two - way partnership. General Education and Education Committee, assisted by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economics. Then I want to thank you. A full-scale educational committee for good work and solidarity on this very important subject. It's a real pleasure to all of us. There's a top-of-the-art Board on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u56	A respectable president. I'm sorry for extending the discussion, actually, I'd like a little bit of schnitzel, that's not it. But I feel compelled to add a few things, and I don't want to be around for long. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson gave a good talk, and in many respects, I have a deep understanding that this route has gone, although it is the wrong way. Maybe she's gone out of some kind of discouragement, I don't know where she is, but somewhere she is. What I'm suggesting is obviously the right thing to do and it sees every man. On the other hand, I would like to mention that I find too much focus in the language. We can have an Icelandic decorum in mind. Our culture is also graphic, and in children's books it is often graphic. I don't think there's any particular good reason to separate children's comic books from this. Why should we not support such production? It is a sad fact that Icelandic illustrated cases are often used little; foreignmen are hired because they cost less. Maybe this is one of the things the bill is going to do, but it's worth keeping in mind. There is no special reason to exclude the graphic aspect of our culture, even though some age groups are certainly not producing words. And I'd also like to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you to the Haraldur Hrafn of Haffn Guðmundsson, who recently translated and translated the Batman stories. It is a very good effort for them in Nexus to publish it, for it is certainly true that young Icelandic people read a lot of comics. There's a lot on the Internet. We can also consider whether Icelandic film stories can be made available online in a larger amount, if the goal is just to encourage young people's reading is very good, indeed, an inexpensive way. However, the translation is certainly a wonderful work. We should really be supporting the production of comics. If the goal is to increase the reading of young people, it is something we really should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u57	Mr. President. That's why I come up against what I'm talking about. A senator, although I do not know whether his words were addressed to me rather than to others who have been here tonight, is that I would like to discuss the language only. To me it is not of the written letter, so to speak. I think comic books and comic books are also tremendously useful in promoting the language and especially when it comes to the youngest generation. It's not just about reading letters. It's about reading letters in my mind. It's a lot more and more diverse than that. Reading the word picture is of utmost importance, and children develop their language by looking at pictures, recording pictures, and talking to others about pictures. So I think it's important to keep locks in order that there are very many things to read, and we increase the language in a variety of ways, including by looking at picture books.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u58	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think we agree completely, but then I also think we should put in the bill something that says we're not going to tie ourselves to any eight pages or words, but we're really going to strengthen the production of material in paper form or electronics or something for children. It wouldn't be that difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u59	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal to legalize the change to the synoptic law, electronic transactions and other electronic services, and a law on the extra budgets of the state. All of this is cut down to the title of an electronic Senate description about which the bill is about. This is a administrative bill from the Minister of Justice. The main ingredient of the bill itself is that the groundwork is laid on electronic and automatic forms of Congress. As noted earlier, the electronic synonyms are expected to be applied to the bets, e.g. Accounts and documents related to them, terms change, bookmaking solutions, bond transport and bail. However, this is not a complete list. An electronic synod will no longer announce a complete document. Rather, according to this document the right and duty will be announced, but the document itself will not be sent to the governor of Congress. In fact, it is announced to the points currently registered in the Senate e-mailing system by a member of the Parliament, while a candidate automatically applies them to the Constitutional description system, which will automatically be announced by the Congress if the entry meets the terms of Congress. If the request is not due or is not available for the treatment of a member of the Parliament. A copy of the signed document will no longer be stored at the council manager's office. The original document will be preserved by a claimer in the event of a debt box. For copies of loan agreements that agree with consumer loan laws, their regulations apply. This is the main ingredient of the bill. The Regulation shall state the information provided in an electronic declaration request and the request should be sent to the head of the Parliament electronically via a Web site. It is suggested by the bill that Congress be authorized by e-mailing along with the routine document's entry in the Constitution book. This aim is for increased self - activity. The committee discussed various aspects of the case, including the importance of priming, but also the importance of taking the step toward the promotion of public, document review, usage and the priorities of the Declaration. In the treatment of the case, particular emphasis was made on the fact that the bill is not about to be completed but also on the fact that it will be permitted to evangelize a document via an electronic entry. The committee brought in a number of guests for this matter, and the reviews came from the Society of Realm, Substitution, National Social Security, Percontinental Protection, the Association of Financial Services, Iceland's CDC, the county member of the capital area, the businessman of the Northern West, the businessman of West, the Westland Business Council of Iceland, and the National Congress of Iceland. The committee points out that with the bill it is not being canceled, but it is suggested that an electronic announcement also be granted. Therefore, in view of the need for a specific preparatory work, it is inevitable that a double implementation will be made, but it has been proposed that the entire procedure will become electronic at the implementation of EU Regulation No. 910/2014 on electronic authentication and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market or the so-called eIDAS protocol. The bill of this material is at the Constitution of travel, industrial and innovation ministers and aims for its contribution in February of the next year. It is therefore unlikely that the recruitment process will be fully electronic when it is accepted. However, the practicality of e - mail will be unambiguous, including you will have to shorten the waiting time from up to two weeks down to seconds. The committee points out that for a time, the e - mails are expected to be attached to the book of pledges. In view of this, the committee therefore considers it necessary to make adjustments in the law of forced sales, No. 90/1991, so that there is no doubt about the authority of a candidate in order to demand an forced sale on the basis of a plagion, with an electronic property entry, if other legal conditions are met. This will ensure that after the foundation of the bill has been declared by e - mail, demands are met by an demands holder. The Commission reports that this adjustment proposal does not affect the treatment of an individual in the county, where the candidate will continue to deliver the original copy of the debt letter, which is based on the electronic entry, as per 3 mgr. 1 1. law on forced sale. In the treatment of the matter, the commission was presented with a number of opinions that would need to be considered that prior to the release of the warrant for a new e - mail hearing would be announced. Then the commission was also made aware that there is a basis for a general review of the Declaration Act. This committee aims to review the issues of opinion presented in the reviews of the case and to consider them in the earlier preparatory work and that the review will be agreed with the relevant party. During this review, the Ministry also considers whether the Declaration Act needs to be revised, especially in view of the need for all declarations on the Internet. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with several changes: 1st We're on 2. a. Instead of the words ▪ with a valid electronic signature to 1st paragraph. b-joints come: valid electronically. b. Following the word "seals " in 2mgr. Come on, b-aheads: payment. 2. Instead of the word ◯ra·raʹsiʹa, in Article 10. arrive: electronically. 3. A- force 12. add: end of logfiles have been corrected, dr. provision for temporary II in the law on the extra income of the state's funds. 4. Then there's a new chapter, IV. Chapter 8; Changing Law on Releasion, No. 90/1191 with subsequent changes, with one article 19. saying, Following the words of the ▪ Assembly declared a contract in paragraph 2. 1.mg. Section 6. The law comes: an electronic record. 5. Instead of the date 6:1. March 19, 2018, in the 19th chapter of this magazine. Come on, April 1st, 2019. Under the committee, Páll Magnússon, Árnadóttir Kolmbek of the Year's Árnadóttir, Birggis Birgir of Ármannsson, Jón Steinunn Þórsson, Mnæfjörsson, St. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, an officer on the committee, agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u60	A respectable president. I recommend to the Management Board of General and Education Committee with a revised bill to correct the changing of the alien law and the Schengen Information System in Iceland (dissolvement). This is a administrative bill from the Minister of Justice, and the committee's opinion is on the subject. 725. The main ingredient of the bill includes necessary changes to be made on the alien law and on the Schengen information system. However, these are not significant material changes. The bill is designed primarily to adapt wording and references to a law code, to explain specific requirements that have seemed vague or inadequate and to handle a case with the NTSB committee and to preach to applicants for the protection of the interview at the National Institute of Iceland more efficient. At the same time, children's interests are guided by the widened government clearances for the implementation of personal information and driving. At the same time, references are made in the laws on foreigners in the Schengen Information System and the customs security authorities are given permission to have direct access to the system. For more information on the subject of the bill, you can refer to its unique articles. This bill, however, suggests changes in the law of foreigners, No. 80/2016, which took effect on January 1, 2017, which is essential for their implementation and the handling of relevant issues is clear and transparent. At the same time, there are expandable government sources for the processing of personal information and a process of driving. Finally, it is suggested that the Schengen information system be referenced at the same time, No. 16/2000, if corrected and customs security authorities are authorized to access the system directly line. The committee brought in a number of guests for this matter, and the reviews were received from the Children's Elínborg of Þórisdóttir, Ellie Harpa Rán and The Shussion of the Foreign Affairs, Peritoneal Protection, the Red Cross in Iceland, the Children's Agent, and the Foreign Institute for Foreign Affairs. At the Committee's meeting of the matter, particular attention was given to the regulations of the bill in terms of the proposal of the evacuation of Chairman and Deputy Chairman for ruling alone, the processing of personal information, the interview for candidates for international protection, the evacuation of Minister regulations, the access of customs authorities to the Schengen Information System, and the legal rights. The Committee reviewed that changes in the laws on international protection should be made to ensure that advocates of their interest are involved in consultation procedures in preparing the case. More of the committee will agree with that. Regarding the recording, the Committee established the view that the correction would be given and that there would be no doubt that the bill does not back-up on applications as per Article 3 or 4. ... anda teamsixr. The bill. The majority believe that law will depend on general guidelines and, in his opinion, do not change the protocol. So the majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following changes: 1st By B-jords 2. Added: Foreign and police lawsuits on decision making in accordance with the laws of foreigners. 2. The Four of us. par.Unable to a. On the 2nd matter. the contents of the a-joints are added: or on the basis of a living without a visa. b. Instead of the above words, a greater authority is available to show the depth of the 3rd case. articles a-joints arrive: longer access. c. Instead of the word 'Environment Decision on the application of a b- team': stay here in the country on the application of authorities. 3. Subject 1. Section 8. put it this way: A police officer is making a decision to decommission his arrival in the country at the time. 1.mg. 106. g. According to this chapter, a decision to withdraw from the country and other decisions will be made by a foreign agency. Under this view, Páll Magnússon, Árnadóttir Kolbrönóttir, Birgir the Yearly son of Ármannsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Árnadóttir Þóra Árannadótir, and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, wrote: "The children of the United States are the members of the United States of the United States of America. "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-13-50.u61	A respectable president. With this bill, which is a management bill from the highest level. Minister of Justice - and I hereby recommend a committee article on the bill found on deck. 726 - is suggested to be permanently removed from the fact that honor will be granted by a administrative decision and that it also be removed from the requirement for a job or office that the person has an unsecure reputation or has not been guilty of criminal action that may be viewed as a shameful public slaughter. This will be done from referring to elections at Generals, No. 24/2000, of unspotted reputation, and instead of the appropriate conditions for various professions or groups, especially in relevant law columns. Yet, the law on elections at Generalis will continue to define an unspotted reputation, such as Article 34. The constitution. On the other hand, the ultimatum of the U.S. elections and the U.S. federal election laws will be set aside and stated that only those who have been granted an inaccessible prison sentence are considered to have defiled their reputation. The committee brought in a number of visitors to discuss this and received reviews from Pangg, a partner in Iceland, the National Socialist Association of Iceland, the State's Prison Institute of Prison, the Economic Affairs, the legal committee of Iceland's Legal Association and Personal Protection. The Committee discussed some of the cases. some of the definitions of terms in the bill's report, the Constitution of rights, and particularly the relevant conditions for the lawyers and the establishment of the European Community for the process, as well as the relevant conditions for the management and management of various professions under the supervision of the Commission. The discussion discussed whether there would be a basis for reviewing the appropriate conditions of other professions, such as lawyers, teachers, and health professionals, as well as a review of the terms and advice of a panel, such as the Children's Protection Committee. The majority of them specifically aim to revise whether or not to provide special terms for child protection committees, where the bill contributes a considerable contribution to the adopted terms of rural elections and in terms of Article 11. Child Welfare, No. 80/002, we're going to Child Welfare Committees on the same rules and terms for rural administration. The majority state that this bill is determined to eliminate the law, as well as the conditions for an unsecure reputation. However, the majority of the members consider a good reason to refer to all advisers to continue reviewing the appropriate conditions of the professions under their territory, yet special emphasis is placed on reviewing the qualifications of those working with children. In addition, the greater part is the importance that such reviews should include consultation with the professions involved in the sector, which take into account employment rights and moderates. Finally, the majority suggest minor word changes. So much suggests that the bill will be approved by the adjustment made to a special Senate document, and I'm not going to read it here. Guðmundur Ingi Kristjánsson, an emissary officer on the committee, agrees with this, but known as the writings of Páll Magnússon, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Birgir Ármannsson of Aarnar, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdótir, Steinunn Þóra, and Willum Þórsson.
