ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u1	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 318, on the processing of information on Iceland's property in ethnic areas, from the Oddný G. Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u2	To answer, health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, social and equality ministers, transport and local government ministers and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u3	Mr. President. It is easy to say that there is a good footprint to the top of national administrations. There are over 100 cases on the Constitution of the government, and only dozens have arrived. So there'll be quite a handshake in the box in spring and there'll be no mistake as often as you want to be. I'm not going to insist on the board to make a promise to bring up all these matters. I'm going to say that it contains the most urgent and that the classes have had the greatest claim in the conduct of two last elections. One who stands at the highest. Transporter's name is a transport program. She agreed in agreement in the coming of an election in 2016 in his time as prime minister. Private senator Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, in his talktoon in 2017, wrote in a discussion on financial plans that the then government works in no way with the election proposal and that her actions were an act of inadequacy. By permission of the President: ▪ Not to mention transport plans. That is where the government will simply return wealth. Now the same man is going to give away his wealth as well. He answered a journalist on December 2 of December 20, in such a way that such expectations would have been inappropriate for a transportation program. Thus, the Icelandic politician often resembles the name chameleon, which changes colours to hide, not to voters, but to blend into the masses. I'm asking the highest. Transport Minister: Does he suggest a transport plan like those approved in the fall of 2016, considering that both the Independence Party and the forward party are now in the government and the left are supporting it? Number two, if not, why? Number three and maybe the most important: Will a new transport plan be submitted to the election?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, and he does not know if he is referring to what it says here when he speaks of a chameleon. I didn't often change colour or particularly about moods. Don't even raise your voice but occasionally. I agree with the senator that there is not necessarily a quantity that matters when it comes to making initials or interpretation proposals but quality and quality, and we should be careful. In fact, I have long felt that, long before I entered the council, it might be more important for the council to resolve fewer matters and that we would not have to correct them as often as we do, the masses should not be goals in themselves. Of course, we put forth a Senate book, we did it conscientiously, a new government. Since then, we have been reviewing what is possible and what is not possible to contribute for this brief period of time. Of course, we have not had long preparation, the council ministers. Some had to be corrected, and some things may have to be reassigned from the start, as it were. Regarding the transport program, it is just one of them. A new transport recommendation began in January, and although I would have liked to submit a transport plan this spring, before local elections, we will not be able to reach it. As a result, in the fall of the fall, new methods of transport, between the ages of five and 15, will be submitted to the council, thus giving us an additional three months to win them in the summer. Of course, one reason is that it is not acceptable for the council to hand them over and expect them to be taken care of in a few days at the beginning of June. This is a document that everyone believes. I also think it is important that there is a link between financial and transport programmes. The budget will certainly appear at the council right now before Easter, and there will be a limit on the financial boundaries of each topic field. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u5	Mr. President. V.E.G. You see, a minister has changed his color in this matter. I don't feel comfortable with the fact that the government groups are going to stick under the blanket of the necessary reforms of the land, the structure that all classes, I reiterate all classes, praise for two last elections. I understand the need for a transport strategy to be discussed, but there is plenty of time to do so after April 1 when financial programmes become evident, in view of that in accordance with 2016. It's under the roof. Ministers really right in the middle of the discussion on the importance of increased transparency and respect for politics to put the old transport plan ahead of local elections and then put the cards on the table in the fall? I feel that it undermines trust in politics and that it is being conned on the thrones of power. So right at the end: much. A secretary of transportation contributes a new strategy for elections?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u6	In fact, it is true that the year 2018 is a way to make sure that the process of transportation is valid, so it is a process of transportation. [[Up front.]] In this year's budget, we increased the transport budget for over 2 billion, 2.2 if I remember correctly. This was to take on the necessary reforms that were possible in the Vega program this year to initiate the course that the government really wants to take and that are a real need for in the community, i.e. to speed up transport development. Not only have the increase in traffic increased dramatically but, of course, the maintenance need for roads and new ones. As far as the rest of the plan was concerned, it was further. I'll probably be able to put it before the end of the specified deadline, like I went over with an environmental and transport committee last week. She should be able to come out here and get sufficient publicity based on incidents, such as what happened. A senator points out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u7	A respectable president. This is the first time I've been coming up here after a week's last vote. So I arose, and went to the north country, including my hometown of Olafurd. It's sad to come to her beautiful party and see that not only the population in the countryside is drawn together by 40% but the ambulance is gone too. There's a lot of turmoil, it's panic, there's hurt: why in the world is our life and our members worth less than the rest of us who live on both sides of the Rock and the Mulla? they ask. Substitute signatures are being collected in which both sailrs and the Valleys support the Ósurfjörðurs in having an ambulance. I met the governor who said, "If I'd been shocked by Olafurd, I wouldn't be here to talk to you now, Inga Sæland Land. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: Is such safety really acceptable? No matter what it is asked for, and what is said, to harden it? To speak of that in one sentence, that there should not be any room for segregation, either for health care or for any other, to balance a position in the country? Is that how we're going to do it? I ask: What will the health minister do? Will she return the ambulance to the Ólabundants'home and respect their lives as well as their limbs to all who enjoy the service of the course of this service to be able to call an ambulance and get it within ten minutes if they are at the door of death?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. In fact, she wrote an article in the paper today, so I was able to prepare a little better for this unsubstantiated inquiry. In the past few years, there have been very many discussions with health care and medical equipment in this area, Sigluvær, Olafurd, and Dalvík. It was evident that with the development of improved transportation, the Fear of the Earth, there would be a variety of conditions that would change. This has been considered for some time. With the tunnel, these two former rural areas joined and followed by health institutions at such places. There was a discussion on the involvement of Dalík's team but only after the birth of the Northern Institute of Health at the end of 2014, with all the health institutions in the north of Akureyri's Hospital. In recent years there have been a number of medical records. One in 2008, another 2011, 2012, etc. I've been worried about this, legitimate concern in my opinion. It is of utmost importance that the inhabitants can trust the services in the vicinity of the environment. However, this decision remains in the hands of the director of the National Health Organization. He has a professional and financial responsibility for setting priorities in his district. After a review of the reports, the result was to shut down the ambulance patrol on Olafurdir and arrive on the field team. In most cases or from Dalvik, however, a medical transfer comes from Sigluundi. Implementing medical care at Davík, and the mountainous region has been promoted, including the U.S.A. with the advice of another full - time EMT on Siglusar and the increased education of other employees. The Ministry assessment is that with this decision the overall safety has increased in the region and is consistent with official policy. On the other hand, I'd like to say that I'm meeting members of the district this week and reviewing these grounds because I think it's right to listen to the locals in this case as different. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of health, but I'll just get right to the point: this assessment is totally wrong. According to all security stations with tunnels, there should be ambulances and even firemen and all active services on both sides. For example, the Shippard and Hyung Straits Strait, at the highest level. A health minister points to them, and there is also a delay. Now, there are two ambulances on deck instead of having one on Ólaundundurs and the other on Sigluvær. I'm asking you, are they both paying for these ambulances? The cost in question is an average of 7 million. K. every year. The value of this is unsurpassed. It is worth the safety of the citizens of this country, that they can call an ambulance and get service one, two and three because it is so strange that they too can have a heart attack where minutes are important. This is so serious. It's the highest. A minister who is totally in charge of this, and this representative of the National Institute of Health is under the secretary's office. As I said in my article this morning: Help them, Supreme One. Minister, your power is yours. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u10	A respectable president. In many parts of the country, there is a significant need to wait for medical transportation. I'd like to mention other places in that area like a dog. A senator speaks of, to form Grenivík, where there is also great reason to pause. There's been a Redleger for discussion. Of course, there is a tremendous challenge for a very geographical district to protect its population. I will also speak with the Councilmen of the Northeast standard. One of the things we will do in relation to a community plan is to set down a service card for the country all in such a way that we can measure the degree of normal health care in our locality. In this, we must try to look after an equal rule throughout the land. It is not enough to look to just one community. It must be the whole country for equal justice to be guarded. But I'll make it a matter of honour, Mr President, that I will be meeting with the council members of the Northeast District on this matter in the days ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u11	President. The government has agreed to seek a seat for Iceland on the United Nations Child rights Committee and has the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities issued a subsidiary declaration to offer Bragi Guðbrandsson the director of the Children's Protection Agency to this committee. It's time to find out what's happened. A member and former social and equal minister of the Þorsteinn Víglundsson set up an investigation within the Ministry following the complaint received from two Child Protection Committees in the capital area over the work of Bragi Guðbrandsson. The last news on the case was a comment on the Ministry's Web, which allows the Children's Protection Agency to be postponed until December 14 to answer those complaints. Since then, nothing has been heard. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: In view of the fact that the outcome of this study has not been publicly reported, it is not clear whether the director of the Children's Health Organization is fully confident to fulfill the position applied within the United Nations, it would have been wise to publish the study to make absolutely certain that all the members of this court were content with a table, such as the Supreme Court. During the days, a minister held up a conversation with the press? What was the study outcome? Why isn't it published? I'll state that I have just seen that the Ministry of Health has told the press that it is expecting a conclusion to be published today. Which is very positive. But wouldn't it have been more reasonable to assume that the conclusion lay ahead before it was decided to offer Bragi on this committee? When did that conclusion come, and why was it not published earlier?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u12	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for recording this. As mentioned in a news report on the Ministry of Health on Friday, on Friday, the director of Child Welfare Services in the capital area, the three largest committees, in Reykjavík, in Refect and Kópavogi, had a meeting on Friday, where this conclusion was presented and then followed by a letter. What is also important and how important it is that the welfare committee make a good impression on this matter. That is why I contacted the head of the welfare committee this weekend and specifically requested that the welfare committee take up this matter. Why is this important? Yes, because the conclusion that was presented on Friday and that will be best presented publicly today is that there are significant changes in the child protection in general to restore trust. These changes must work together. It was an enormous pleasure with this conclusion that will be further supported, including the result. Among the leaders of Child Welfare Services. I don't know that it's the same with the Children's Institute, that men are agreed that it's important to enter into the opinion issues involved in child welfare. Hopefully, we can go deeper into it at a meeting of the welfare committee on Wednesday, which has already been proclaimed. I'd also like to say that this group of paintings is very sensitive in all places. Just as the minister has done because we need to understand what changes the work needs to be made in its entirety, so I hope that the welfare committee will make a good impression on this matter, just as the minister has done. When it comes to monitoring, counselling, measures and other factors. In fact, it's the Ministry's test of this case, that there is a need to engage in child protection. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna come in a little bit better on this in the second answer below.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u13	President. Thank you. Minister for the answers. You're right about what you're doing. The minister contacted and will arrange for a meeting on the welfare committee, which is good. It's important to start revising these child protection issues. I wondered about this process. In view of the sensitivity of this group of subjects, when more detailed information has been provided on the repeated inappropriate interference Bragi the son of Braggi, Guðbrandsson of the Child Welfare and in the case of an interview with the former head of the Children's House, who says that his cooperation with Bragi is not smooth, I find it surprising that my priorities are first to make a decision that he will be offered to this committee in the United Nations before the decision to the common people and to all of us as to whether man really trust in that position. My question is, Why did these findings not exist before the decision was made that Bragi Guðbrandsson would be offered to the United Nations Child Court?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to say that the results are that the Children's Protection Agency or her director had nothing to do with it. On the other hand, there are many opinions that must be considered, and people agree on them. Friday, this conclusion was presented to the Child Welfare Committees. At the same time, it was announced that Bragi Guðbrandsson had requested permission and had requested the support of the government in offering an offer to the United Nations Childhood Committee. There I think his position is strong in view of the issues he has been working on for over 20 years, including with the development of the Children's House and their work on the Lanzaore committee and so on. I encourage a welfare committee to consider all these matters, and I look forward to setting up the committee on Wednesday. I reiterate that it is very important for people to take detailed steps in these matters so as to understand where they need to change, and I think, by going down to this party, that I can better understand what changes must be made, and by what means, and it is important that the council, on the contrary, do so and hopefully make it on the same page. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u15	Mr. President. Last week there was a meeting in Kjalarnesi, where residents called attention to the serious state of Kjalarnes Road, which has been over the course of many masters for many years. In recent decades or years, these dear ones have lost many of their immediate family members or schoolmates or others close to them. The meeting showed that the new route of design was about completed and the organization seemed to be almost there. So there seems to be nothing left to wait for this urgent transport development, i.e. First, make a so called 2+1 road, or double it, and then divide it. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation claims that he is not going to submit a transport program at this spring council, for district elections. I'm hiding it's because this fall we're going to be very busy talking about budgets and other things, so I don't know if we have any more time in the fall to discuss this plan. Again, I ask, why doesn't the Minister want to submit this strategy now for the county election? Doesn't he dare? Or what's wrong? I'd also like to know: Can we expect this necessary transport to be in Kjalarnesi's transport program, whether it's now spring or in the Christmas book market in the fall?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u16	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his excellent inquiry. There was a fine meeting in Kjalarnesi and a well-traveled one. A similar meeting was held in early winter at Aranesp, and it was also very well attended, even more people there. But it was a pleasure, and I took along from the meeting in Kjalarnesi that it was a perfect partnership, not only to the inhabitants of Kjalarnesi, but also to every member of the Western country, that they believe that the main transport reform for the whole area is a restoration of the Kjalares Way. I can say that the road is long broken, as is true of many others. You're right. A senator refers to, a shared organization will likely be advertised in March, and there will not be much comment on this, the city will likely be able to complete it in the summer, possibly in July or August. At the same time, the road had to do with the city, the local community, the design. Full design cannot occur until the sharing system is finally through, but it is being tried to work together to save time. In addition, negotiations with landowners need to be made to make sure that only certain areas will be affected. The number of driveways is being changed and the number of them is substantially reduced. They're over 20 today. Put on a kind of country road next to the larger one to gather into one place. In fact, there will be a few telephone grounds based on the design that is already under way or that is being worked on. This is one of the projects that must be most important to us in the process of transportation. The reason it doesn't appear in spring, as I have said before, is that it is being won these days. In financial and financial discussions, the idea was to take the big picture and discuss at the council when the budget was in place, but the debate on budgets would change dramatically, as I know it. A senator knows. [[The president calls.]] I expect we'll see this road somewhere in a transport program, and I'll expect it to be quite a priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers of these answers that were very cold. I still don't feel that this road on Kjalarnesi will be on the next transport program. Therefore, I would like to reiterate my question about whether it will be. I am fully aware that financial plans need to be placed before the process of transportation. But I can't imagine that this government is underpriests, for it's ready to sell foreign banks on ridicule, ready to waive, and to give up billions of dollars to us Icelanders by not taking advantage of Iceland's purchase rights at Arion Bank. A government government like this has plenty of money. We're good to go. I'm assuming there's not going to be a budget for this project, so I'm asking the highest level of it. Again, a minister would intend to arrange for these conventions to be established in the next transport program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u18	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator's economic situation in Iceland is very good and has done quite well with the well - being of a government fund. Before election, all groups promised that they would take money from the financial system to infrastructure, including the transport system, and that includes the group of road users. Senator. In fact, they promised to give the bank to the public as well. It seems that he should not have been bought for anything. They also forgot that the state now had a major share in the bank after a very stable contract made during the last terms. I expect we'll have money for the project, and we'll reiterate what I've said before that we're working on a transport program. Of course, I can't tell exactly where the roads are until that plan is available, but I can say with great certainty that meetings that show such solidarity at this meeting and as they are at the meeting at Akrelin, where it is a clear view of the whole population and rural community in a large area about which is the most important project - the State must look at such priorities when it is available. [[The president calls.]] That is commendable and will help us to make decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u19	Mr. President. I just want to have a place to talk to. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Children's Protection. I must admit that I became relatively little closer to a minister's answers earlier, so a minister has the opportunity to be more specific in the second round. The complaints given by child protection committees in the capital area and published publicly were of a very serious nature. They turned to a number of factors covering the work of the former Director of Child Welfare and the interaction between the Children's Protection Agency and the Children's Health Committees in general. I know they weren't put out lightly. On the other hand, it is understood by the minister's statement that the Ministry's investigation is that the practice was not to be considered, in spite of repeated informalities and the opinion of the child - welfare committees, an abnormal interference by the Director of Child Welfare's Office on individual matters. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers and clear answers, thank you: Is the conclusion that this practice was in all proper place? Can it be understood differently than if the government supports the former manager's volunteer for international work that it supports the work done there? Is it the Minister's assessment that it will restore the trust which was repeatedly declared by the Children's Protection Committee of the capital that had been completely broken between the Children's Institutes and the Children's Health Committee, so seriously that the Children's Protection Committee requested that the Director of Child Welfare would be revered in order to handle the committee's case, and in fact, for the purpose of getting an external party to handle the Commission's case where trust in Children's Children's Institute would be completely dried? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and again he says what I said before, according to the Ministry's survey, is that the director of the Children's Institute of Children's Health, or Children's Institute, has not been abstinent. The conclusion is also that some situations involved in child - welfare committees need to be adjusted. When both sides sent in their information, and we can review it all on a welfare committee, I think it would be extremely good to do so, I decided to meet both with the Children's Health Services and the Child Services to try to figure out how to build trust in this series. The results of those conversations were that there would be a need for some action and that men would be willing to reach the table for what was involved. As far as I know, when this conclusion was presented to Child Welfare Committees on Friday, it was a huge pleasure with the assumption that we were starting at the points that even begin. to put a formal communication form, not only between Child Services and Children's Health Services, but also between Children's Health Services and other members, Child Services and other members. It is the work that humans agree to do. They are being prepared to arrange for meetings with the largest child - welfare committees, the Children's Health Services, and other members, to initiate this work. I think it's a very positive thing that we've arrived at the point where the members of this category, whether child - welfare committees or Children's Institutes, are starting work and cooperation in making changes. I think that's why it's important for a welfare committee to step in, because there may be some changes that might come out of this, and that conversation will come up with something the lawgiver needs to take care of. They may want to do so quickly or link it to some larger revision that is also under way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u21	A respectable president. In fact, I have to admit that despite having listened to an answer at the highest. A minister twice, quite consistent, as far as I'm concerned. So I ask again: Is the Ministry's conclusion that the above - mentioned procedures have been thoroughly complained in more detail on the top of child - welfare committees, all in place? Does a minister agree with that conclusion? And will this conclusion be published by the Ministry's reasoned review of what places? Would I like to know, in view of the news, that if the chairman of the former track career continues in the Children's Institute of Children's Health? Is that true? Is there any formal agreement on the retirement of the former director between the Ministry and his?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u22	A respectable president. I agree with what the Ministry finds out, that there was no violation there. But I also agree with the conclusion that some changes need to be made. I don't really see what the problem is when we get it together that the Children's Health Committees and Children's Institutes are ready to sit down and talk about it. We're going to have some changes with the Ministry. At least it's taken a step in the right direction. I'm really surprised to hear it. A senator should not only rejoice that the mercenary is on his way in that direction. Then about Bragi's offer. I think Bragi Guðbrandsson is a suitable candidate for the United Nations Child Court. That's what I've been tracking here earlier today. Part of the agreement that is expected now to move into the Ministry is that he performs special projects there, and then, in favor of the Children's Court of Child Services, he claims to be the head of the Children's Institutes Department. [[The president calls.]] I think it's one of those things that you might want to talk about on a welfare committee on Wednesday and that you won't be out of it. I look forward to that meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u23	Mr. President. Now it has been that the government has sold a 13% share of the government at Arazon Bank. Clearly, if the government's letters had been sold at market prices, they would have received a much higher price. No attempt was made on the part of the State to topple the value of the letters. No word has been heard from the advance group in this discussion, and it appears to follow in the blind silk - gloves policy of the Independence Party against the hedge fund. It is important to have the policy of the forward party in this matter. His silence has been strange. Less than a year ago, I was told the highest. The secretary of transportation and unit for Congress, by permission of the President: ▪ In the days, interested foreign merchants came here and claimed to have bought Arion banks. From the government's camps, there were shouting voices, and these were the words of real investors on a journey that was betting with Iceland but not against, it was a turning point, a turning point. In what sense is it a turning point for foreign hedge funds, some with questionable and criminal past, to want to gain a bank and drive? Aren't humans self-reliant? V.E.G. Minister continues: And has the government set out what the financial system in Iceland is supposed to be? Does the government have any idea, or is it to leave it to the market, like other things? Still the highest. Minister continued: ▪ It is really remarkable to think that the public and the state have been good enough to hit the bank with a huge hit, but it seems that the government does not care what the financial system should look like. So I want to ask the highest. Minister and chairman of the forward party: How is the sale of the State's stocks at Arion knocking these words of the minister and of the forward party's policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. The foreground for this unsubstantiated query. In fact, he claimed that a higher price could be obtained on the market. If it now turns out that the bank is able to enter a registration process and register, and there's a much higher price, then it was better if it was fixed in the fixed conditions for the state's recovery and gain agreements, then a considerable amount of money will be returned to the state. It will be completely financed, i.e. The potential human funds could be removed and were normal to maintain stability in this country, which will return to the State. I have not changed the view that banks are the preferred people to be noncombatants, on the other hand, according to the knowledge we have, primarily to maximise their high value and not necessarily have a vision of long-term tenement policy and how they will run this bank. However, we are in a hole that was created because the stability conditions opened a window for these people to buy themselves into the bank. Maybe you're right. A senator directs them to questions other than mine how that window came into existence. However, he was used by these funds. But it seems forgotten or failed to look at the fact that in 2009 a contract was made between the government and these members, or the Council Bank, on an unregistered purchase rights. The question could have been asked, " Would it have been reasonable for me to have been recorded as soon as the conditions of stability were set and the agreement was not available? ' But he was there. He's a fact. We stood by him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u25	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister now did not say how this harmonized with his words, which I quoted earlier. But he's started a little business deal, and then it's just best to ask questions about him. The minister of finance was very pleased with this contract last time, saying that we senators should rejoice over it because if the bank was sold at higher prices, the bank would get more for what it did. However, there is a danger that before being sold, the hedge fund will reduce the bank's economy. Selling valuable granddaughters like Valistor and running a fund control system out of the bank. There's only one goal for a fortune fund. It's making as much money as possible. And now that the state has sold its letters on the watch, they can do whatever they want. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: In view of the fact that the hedge fund can simply reduce the financial status of the bank, what is his view of this replacement contract? I'm sure they will. I don't think people should celebrate this deal so much until they see what comes out of it and I'm afraid that the hedge fund is going to celebrate even more than we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u26	A respectable president. In fact, the person standing here has never rejoiced, but we are in a period where the bank's owners are the ones they are because there was a window in the stable conditions for them to buy. [[Up front.]] They're in there. That's why they're owners. We're trying to get over that deer, get into a healthy field. Therefore, the government has had the clear vision that we are working on a white book on how we see the financial system in the future, where it serves normally and wisely homes and businesses. It will not change who are the owners of this bank, although the state has 98 and 100% in the other banks. We will be able to establish laws on the financial market we want to have when that conclusion is at hand. It won't change anything. I think it's very important that people get very comfortable in this process, secure the interests of the State completely. [[The president calls.]] I'm telling you, they're working in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u27	Mr. President. Now it is that here in these sales, and in fact outside, we politicians at times become aggressive, argue with one another for words and actions, disagree with political and political views, and also comment on how we do our job. I must say, however, that I find myself out of line when members of the state of other councils of criminal action without having anything to do with it are accused of being guilty and punished, in violations of general penal law, and say, because they themselves suspect something, that there is a suspicion. Now, for a fact, a probable suspect has a certain meaning in a criminal court. I have to say, it's a question of what. paritaprevir Yesterday, the Ævarsdóttir Ævardósdótir of public opinion went beyond all limits in this context. [[The president calls.]] I expect this to be discussed in some way at the Council Presidency Committee, although, of course, members of the Parliament are primarily responsible for their words. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u28	Mr. President. I must be willing to respond to these faults of the council leader of the Independence Party. I might want to make it clear what I said in Silfra yesterday, so we're clear. I didn't accuse anyone of breaking the law. I told you there was a reasonable suspicion to start an investigation into the possibility of a fracture. The attorneys of the Independence Party, many of whom have had the utmost concern in criticizing my comments, should know for themselves that it is a completely different matter than saying that a crime has taken place. So I would like to say one last thing: Although in certain cases a logical concept is not legal, it does not belong to the law. It is common sense to talk about the suspicion that the various fragments took place here. I'm not the police, I'm not speaking on behalf of the police when I say that there's a reasonable suspicion of starting a legal investigation. I'm not the police. I'm not saying that in that sense. [[The president calls.]] I'm just talking as an ordinary person who talks to ordinary people without trying to rob them of the sound language.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u29	Mr. President. When a serious offense is discussed, a violation of penalties, both punishable and incompetent, there will be individuals, even violent ones. Councilmen, to guard their word. When indicated, it is appropriate. In a public sense, a judge who has committed criminal acts needs something more than just the thoughts of a member of the council. There has been no reference to driving a senator, who gives reasons to believe that the incident was a criminal offense. There's nothing that's said about it. In case of a moment. A senator has some information about what the rest of us haven't had, I expect it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u30	Mr. President. This has been noted in the discussions on this subject. A senator, Ásmundur Friðriksson, himself informed that he has charged a number of trips that may seriously question the accuracy of his Senate work. Coffee trips through the district are not necessarily or properly something to be charged with. This has been made clear in the public discussion of how wrong it is to charge the council for something that the Senate is not supposed to pay for, it can be viewed as fraud. It's also been made, and I'm not the only person here who says it's just a highly respected lawyer. So I don't know exactly what to do with it. A senator is implying. Again and again, I didn't say there was a fracture, I called for an investigation on it, and that can be done, top dog. President, the establishments of this community can be called into operation, no matter who.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u31	Mr. President. There is evidence that the laws and regulations on the matter of Congress may not have been followed. That is why a prime committee is working on this case because it is a suspicion. At that time, a prime committee will need to monitor the office of the Generals and the funds assigned there. That's exactly what we're doing. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdóttir and Thorhjörður says that we need to consider these matters. There's no dispute. If her case is so misunderstood, so to speak, a suspect would only mean that the police should start an investigation, a criminal investigation, it's their mistake. It's been corrected by Þórhildur Sunna. But it's a suspicion, we need to look into this, and we're doing it. The Commission has called for a report from the General's Office on the implementation of the regulations and laws of the office when it comes to the sale of Congress. [[The president calls.]] That's the situation right now. Then we may need to examine the matter according to ethical principles. A brief discussion is presented to the Björn Leví of Gunnarsson. We just want to investigate it. We have a legal obligation on the Presidency Committee to do so. That's what we're gonna do and are gonna do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u32	V.E.G. President. I think there's something wrong with terms they can't quite handle in this matter. When it is said that there is evidence that men have committed a criminal act against penalties, they are saying very much. Normally it is sufficient for humans to be even put in custody, etc. When there is no evidence to confirm this - and it does not change, although it has been said that people may not have had the right to reimburse some driving system - they do not meet the conditions of fraud or income as they were at some point in the discussion, as intelligent as they were today. This, of course, is mistaken. It is a serious charge that humans do not use for political or nonpolitical purposes, saying that it is logical to believe in a penalties or criminal conduct. Really, people are to be ashamed to use these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u33	Mr. President. I'm going to take only another member of this case. Have a what? In the media, at coffee rooms, at swimming pools, and in all parts of the country, members of the Parliament followed up discussions? The public doesn't trust us. This is where confidence is measured at the Council of 22% among the people, 30 percentage points below what is on average in other Western countries. It simply does not mean that every time we are asked for some information, we throw sand on our teeth to slow down and try to cover things up. Now let's just get together to bring it all up on the table. It's also better for those who are accused of possible lawbreakers to get things straight. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] If we have nothing to hide, let us go back a few years and publish the information requested. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u34	A respectable president. This is not to say that the legal profession, with full respect for it and for all its professions, has a patent in the Icelandic language. It's just not like that. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir here explained exactly what she meant. She explained very well that it was not the same as then. The members of the Independence Party are struggling to try to get them wrong. Hv. A senator mentioned the argument here, so I'd like to pray. Senators of the Independence Party, especially then. Councilmen, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, and Brastedur the Brynjar of Níelsson, listen to it only at ease. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ivarsdóttir said. She explained her situation very well and clearly. It is clear that she was not referring to a logical suspicion in the context of what the police used that expression, it was quite clear. She was using it in the context of her counting material for research. It cannot be clearer and is being examined in its own way. Another factor is that the discussion was about Iceland's surveillance agencies, which do not fit in for some reason, and in fact, it's a very small tradition here on a town for international maintenance and counterpolitization. That's the point. Not either way. A senator has used some two words that a member of the council demanded to be misunderstood. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u35	A respectable president. In effect, we are talking about the trust of the council, such as the question. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson came in. The reason I asked this question is, for example, Because there's so little trust. When they come up with accusations, they are automatically viewed as true, just because they come out. That's why I ask, "Is it true or isn't it? " I want it on the table to drive them down and to distrust the General Assembly and to show them simply black in white that the swamps in progress are not true. Or that we get the truth to the surface, show what is true and true, respond in a good, correct way, and do not take some form of vocabulary. We're just calling a ram. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] After all, it's a matter of great and clear evidence that this can end up in a penitentiary. [[The president calls.]] Then we must also call it that name. There's nothing more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u36	Mr. President. Just so the people also understand the positive aspects of this, what's going on here, we'll probably get the information about the Senate budget back ten years in time, and it looks like it's the same thing. It's an enormously positive step for everyone, but not least for us working here, that it's all transparent. For when men have a thing of themselves, or when things are under supervision, and what man does to them, there is a temptation. We know exactly that it is a temptation. It is also good for us to see that the temptation to engage in temptation is removed from the table. It's transparent. The people of the land see it. It will mean more trust in us in the future. It will mean that the people will say: Yes, the senators made a decision to have these objections, to have everything on board. That is positive. And then for the rest, for the inspection. This too is positive. It is the legal obligation of the Presidency Committee to monitor the extent of the Council budget, which is what we have received from the General office. It is easy to read from the law: It is our legal duty to monitor the privacy of the council budget. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're gonna do. It all comes up on the surface. Whatever the case, it's all very positive, even though it's uncomfortable for some people today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u37	Hv. President. I'd like to say what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson says there's no misunderstanding in this, and there's no phrase code. When it is said that there is a suspicion that someone has committed a penitentiary and that the police need to investigate, because the police are not investigating a crime unless they have a suspicion, they are saying that there is evidence and there is evidence that such a crime has been committed by the police. There is no evidence of this and no discussion in society will change it, even though there may be some debate in the community that the senator might not have been entitled to some of these payments. But in order for that to be a violation, he has to deceive. He has to fool out money, then he has to write the wrong text or something. There's no such thing as this. And then you all come here, what? Councilmen, and this is how they talk about this, that there is a misunderstanding or some phrase. It's not a phrase. They are accused of a serious offense, and they are ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u38	A respectable president. Here in the previous month, we had a good day at the council following the shadow of the power-veinering, about how the sexes'relations in the political field are not always as best they should. I wonder if we're not going to listen to a senator standing in this pit and saying that a senator in the hall uses here terms that she can't quite control, by permission of a president. I hope that's soon enough. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u39	A respectable president. I've spent 11 years at a council this spring. I feel that the discussion here has come to a new stage that I have not experienced before. It's very serious, very respectable president, very serious. The members of the council, the president of the Parliament, are being accused of not caring for their roles, not caring for their duties. It is suggested that a gross violation of law has been overlooked. Councilmen. It's totally inappropriate and completely new to me that it's being recorded at the council room. A respectable president. It's completely unannounced, and the council must have to take action. The government needs to be protected for its employees and for the president of the council. We can't have this offer anymore. This is followed by reports of lack of confidence in the General Assembly and is because the members of the council and the council president and responsible men here are throwing sand on their teeth to cover up some minor cases that may have occurred. There is no hope that we will gain the trust that we have all often discussed as important for the council to work back. This does not happen through such language, language, or such practices that are being practiced here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u40	A respectable president. I can totally agree with the men here that we are to be careful about such matters and be careful about the charges made. But let us not belittle them. We need to do more in this regard than we already have. We need to open up information about the payments involved, increase their transparency, explain to the public what rules they apply to them, and even revise the rules that apply to them. Because we also need to realize that in some cases we have at least established a more favorable policy on ourselves than the general public is using, e.g. when it comes to the tax freedom of driving cars. That's what I think is unnatural. I think that we must put the same meter on us in reimbursement and tax frees at the cost that goes around the rest of the country. It is the work we have left. We need to complete information on these payments so that they are transparent, but we also need to make sure that they are in harmony with what is going on and generally happens in other citizens of this land. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u41	A respectable president. It's clear what the facts are. It has been observed that the office manager of the Generalis has not been monitored for these payments. This has been shown in an interview with the hour. There's also been reports that a lecturer in a penal court, I think it was, says that when it's not correctly reported, it's a fraud. It is very clear in the laws on the terms and regulations of the Presidency Committee that if a member of the Parliament has to travel within the country in connection with his work, he should be reimbursed. A huge question on whether a reimbursement for a reelection or a campaign is linked in the actual work of a senator or a candidate. It's right here in front of us. If this ends with a violation of penal law, we have to call it that name. There's no such thing. It is simply, as I said earlier, to call a ram.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u42	Mr. President. Now I don't know how much of this 22% trust problem. paritaprevir I'm sure it's very important to Jón Gunnarsson. What I meant by my comments about throwing sand into my bicycle was not to cover anything but to describe what is well - known when a system of defenses itself and reacts to unpleasant things. That applies to me as well as to other members of the council in this room. What I'm saying is, these things are all over the community every day. As soon as I hit it with what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson says we should speak with caution, and of course we should not say things that are not the source, there is full reason for the Pirates and others to emphasize these matters and that we have the initiative to publish all the information that is not to be a secret. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u43	A respectable president. That's what I think. paritaprevir What Jón Gunnarsson said before just now underscores an attempt to destroy the case. He began to talk about men here in a pita were accusing the council of these and of these things. I want to draw attention to it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson himself, who started talking about it. This discussion began with a reason. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year complained about his situation. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir spoke yesterday, not here in a pita. It may be new to be recorded in the Assembly Hall. I realize that people can be offended at things; I often get very offended myself, including over it as the dog. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says if it's gone, but let it go from part to part for now. But basically, we are being complained about this matter. Basically, it is being complained that society's institutions do not care for their own responsibilities, whether it is the General, other agencies, or members of Congress. And this presumptuous fear of being above my head is what I feel about when it comes from reason. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. At least I can say that for my part, I don't know exactly how the conduct of the case should always be in Iceland, but the political responsibility in Iceland is a bad party and it's not the thing now to keep it quiet, least of all, on the contrary. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u44	A respectable president. Here we are at a familiar place in the discussion, i.e. They begin to flee from their own words and their responsibility to live up to what they say. It's trying to make it a subject I used to say, and saying that I'm overly afraid of looking at these matters, quite upset about it, and that I'm trying to take part in killing the case on the move. A respectable president. I think it would be fine at the end of this discussion. A president would review how the council and the Presidency Committee have responded. The 'em. Councilmen who speak like this are well aware of this, for it is with the participation that has taken place at the meetings of members of the Parliament, at meetings of the presiding committee, that these matters are carefully reviewed, where no one has spoken of the fact that they will all be on board, that information will be published in time, that the need to explain the need for these rules is clear. I agree completely with that. None of us have spoken against it here. However, it is being tried to question matters, a respectable president, in the way that people in a town, who normally cannot be as familiar with their affairs, think that they are trying to shovel here over some shit. It's such a cheap case, a respectable president. He's not appropriate, and he's not worthy of the council. [[The president calls.]] I'm just asking that this be handled in a proper way and with all the normal tactics the council is supposed to apply in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u45	The president has not noticed that others have wished to speak to a meeting board. Is President correct? If so, the President would say one reason for this discussion that I think it is best for the work to speak on behalf of Generalis in these matters. The President is not going to argue here about the situation. They are in their right place, such as law, Congress, and Senate budget laws, and contracts are expected. These issues will be discussed in the Presidency Committee and its solutions. This is where all members of the council own representatives or agents in the hearing. Similarly, the presidents of a council on this matter have been highly consulted and will continue to do so. I expect works on the part of the Generals will meet this debate and the appeal that is on the subject of better implementation and more information, but I expect members of the Parliament will stake themselves on how much they appreciate the respect of the Generals or improve the situation by discussing it in the way that has been done here in the Assembly Hall. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u46	A respectable president. The annualised PISA study continues to give us new testimony on the decline in reading ability of children and adolescents here, and they always start talking about explanations and improvements. Some argue with the survey themselves and view it as not to be correct, to argue with the example, or to the sample, or both. Others point out that young people rarely read and write just as much as they do today or relate to others as a well of knowledge as the Internet does. Some link the worsening reading skills to a so - called starter lock, which has proved costly to experiment, and they want to switch back to older methods that proved to be well from the time their grandmothers were sitting and pointing out the lassie. A respectable president. I'm going to allow myself not to take sides on the teaching methods myself. I think there are various methods of teaching reading, but only one way to cultivate reading and reading is to read. Reading, reading, and practicing, is a way of speaking, from paragraph to paragraph, not by subtle screening of key points. I believe that growing reading problems among young people are concerns, not surprises. They are mainly explained by the dramatic change in the cultural and social environment of young people in recent years and by the cultural rifts they follow, the positive effects of almost environment, and the Internet development of communication with public complacency and the government on the consequences of reduced reading. Of course, there are positive factors, especially potentials for linking with knowledge. Iceland, however, has long been a gypsy, and the idea that the solution to reading problems lies in finding the right device for reading, e.g. give all the kids an iPad when they come to school, and it will in some way make it easier for them to learn to read and read. I think that's a mistake. I think the real thing exists, and it's called a book. The book has it, for example. past the screen that it is a threefold object in time and space; it occurs and is an hour away from the device. When you read a book, it fills you with concentration, or perhaps even more: It allows you to concentrate, creating an area of words that gradually surrounds the reader. On the other hand, the ossuary is a disturbance; it is constantly turning our attention to a new direction, seems to be a direct designer to the attention span; it is a progressive training in attention failure; hence, it is increasingly difficult for all of us to focus on a long, continuous matter in which one thought leads to another; so, gradually, it will become a complete knowledge rather than a broken collection of information that we do not get knowledge but mere opinions. A respectable president. Several studies, both here and abroad, have found that a so - called delight - reading program plays a key role in increasing your understanding of reading with all the desirable side effects that follow. We need to be aware of our need for extra demonstrations and productions in daily life; we need to make it possible for children's authors to do some writing by strengthening the funds they can look for. Governments must consider it a priority to produce largely more books, especially children's editions, they need to stop taxing on books, and they need to fill the classrooms with new and fragrant books. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u47	A respectable president. I was so fond of these indents of who I was. A senator told me I just got carried away on my seat. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A member of the council for this important discussion. I have stressed how to deal with the challenges associated with readings and how to operate. It is important that we look to the situation as it is. Results from PISA study 2015 show that the performance of children of 15 years is lower than in 2012. Iceland is now at the bottom of the northern continent, where people were in the middle of a group in the year 2000. Lower performance levels have been increased and the upper stages have been reduced. This ratio is similar to that seen since 2006. The rate of boys is lower than in OECD countries in general and is lower than that in children with a native language than in those with a native language. However, the trend is similar in both groups. This is simply a grave situation. This trend has been taking place for some time. Of course, the question is correct. A senator who started this discussion that we face a great challenge. However, I would like to state that there has also been an OECD in the other states and in other OECD countries. We need to look for something else, but just look at her. A respectable president. Improvements in understanding have been achieved since 2014. We've taken routine action. For example, consider the support of the Icelandic education system as well as the best way to give students a top education in Iceland. Part of the Action Programme is a national agreement on locks. That project started in the fall of 2015, and it is a cooperation of representatives of all rural society in the country and of the Home and School Association. The work was given to an education agency. Medical advisers were hired to the Agency and have been active for two and a half years. It was immediately started to create a measuring device to evaluate the reading skills and development of students in dyslexia, dyslexia, vocabulary, spelling, and writing for reading difficulties. The advice and education of the National Institute of Education has been focusing on planning, building policy, basic readings, Icelandic as another language, the use of relevant data, cooperation between schools, cooperation with parents, and locking in preschool. I believe all this work that is already started will have results. However, this project is an enormous social project. A respectable president. To promote locks in Iceland, it is necessary for all who come to shape education policy in the country to work together. So I recently preached to the principal stakeholders at the elementary school for a meeting to discuss cooperation on how we should present and prepare the implementation of the next PIISA study in 2018. I spoke up the importance of encouraging all students to deal with the PISA with the attitude that everyone would put forth considerable effort when considering how students approach the subject is that there is something about some people not finishing the test. Another factor is that since students do not receive an individual outcome, they have come to the test with a different attitude. So it is important to know that this is important because it is a measure of our education. But I'm on the other hand, that although this is a measurement and research, we should not aim all policies to the conclusions made, but we should look at the results, and they will guide us to see where we are. All members expressed interest in participating in further consultations to combine the approach on the PISA investigation. Assessments of the success of the study project are varied. The results need to be evaluated in more than one way. Therefore, I think it is very important that when the results come from PISA 2018, we use them to evaluate the project, as well as the predictions and results of a concerted test in 2015-2020. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u48	V.E.G. President. I thank the Guðmundur Andri Thorsson for speaking on this important subject and listened to an inspired talk on smelly books and more. I'd like to thank the highest. Minister of Education, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, for being here giving his speech. This is a focus of school, for a recent report by the Norwegian Minister states that the knowledge of students in Icelandic schools is driving worse according to PISA measurements, with attention to the ability to read, mathematics, nature studies, and so on. It hurts national pride when it turns out that Icelandic students are less effective than their North American peers. This is not to be said to be new news, since the speakers express concern about the situation, heavy on the edge, and that many young boys do not read for their benefit at the end of high school, often but not because of the lack of interest or encouragement. The variety of material and practical study material should be available for students during and during school. Parents, grandparents, older siblings, and uncles and aunts are a major part of all of our learning careers because adults' conversations with children from infancy are fundamental that they themselves can tell and act as a child's natural curiosity, sing along with them and tell them stories. Reading for young children has always been good for children. To me, there is no need for complex, extensive research to prove that. Once children are able to read, a wide variety of books is essential. Children who have a second language in English need support, as well as their families. [[The president calls.]] It is vital that they are allowed to maintain their native tongue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for this good discussion and the highest. Minister, too. You see, it is not old - fashioned to learn to read. Rather, it should be old - fashioned not to know how to read for yourself. It is natural that all children can read for their benefit at the end of their primary schooling. A lock is fundamental and essential for individuals to have an active share in the democracies community. It is unacceptable that 30% of boys cannot read for themselves. The problem is mostly boys. So it's a boy's problem. Mostly, not a single one. This will have a profound effect on a youth later in his life, who cannot read for his benefit in graduation from high school. It will have a negative effect on both high school careers, on employment opportunities, and also on the chances of being expelled from high school. Those who cannot read for their benefit and who find it difficult to read at the start of their school education are more likely to be eliminated from school later than others. We have a big problem here, and we have to look at the elimination process much sooner than when it comes to high school because it's a little late. There is a sharp link between those who immediately show that they have problems reading and those who leave high school. The problem of elimination is far too large and begins immediately at the base schools. We can't go crazy on this by not responding too late. The next generation must be prepared to follow a faster trend. Much of the work that is known today will be gone within a few years. Thus, increasing emphasis on basics has rarely been more important. New skills that are not being learned without the means to be read to the benefit of others will be increased. We need to put more emphasis on reading children. A national agreement on lock was an extremely important campaign to which the then educated minister of Illugi Gunnarsson's son came. There are many campaigns to 2020 that will bring us even better education for the future. I'll get into it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u50	A respectable president. What Do We Need to Learn? After all, we need to understand others and understand them. It is not easy or easy to do. No matter how short the distance may be, the language is a very complex tool that can be understood from mouth to ear. But there are also the languages that we need to understand, or understand, very many. It is not only traditional language but also specialized language, e.g. Math or programming and word pictures and other things. That's where exercise is everything. The more exercise, the more understanding we both understand and understand others. Just as a primary textbook places a high priority on locks, which is one of the six basics of study together with sustainability, democracy and human rights, equality, health and well - being, and finally creation. In a very broad sense, for example, read is specified there. information lock, media lock, financial lock, etc. There is an enormous amount of time in all of these. We receive so many tasks that require such a wide range of knowledge that we have really had very little time to care for all of them. It's not just the book anymore, it's also the computer, TV and the media and the radio. It is simply a competition for a time, a competition for talent in many languages, a number of them. It simply makes it difficult for us. But it is absolutely necessary to know the problem and to observe the key issues here, which, of course, are that we can understand ourselves in our first language and understand others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u51	Mr. President. This is an extremely important discussion we have here regarding reading and reading, and it is difficult to make such a big and important point in two minutes. I'm still gonna try. Reading and locking are important and includes so many factors. It has become crystal crystal in the talks that have been brought up to this point during the discussion, both of which have been published. paritaprevir The divinity of Thorsson son of Thors, who began to speak of this as well as in the case of the highest. Ministers and everybody else here has spoken. All that has been said is that in the large context, I feel that something mattered. There are three things I would like to focus on in my language. This is the situation in general, or the bad change that has occurred that shows that Icelandic students have been yielding. A change that has made for the worse. Also, I feel that I cannot help but mention the status of students who have a foreign language. She's bad. And it's getting worse. Their students could go faster than others'abilities. This is an independent social problem that we face and must deal with. So third, what has been happening, i.e. different positions of students by schools and thus by neighborhoods that seem to reveal class distinctions for home Bible studies. There is another huge social problem that we have to be concerned about here. [[The president calls.]] The reading issues need to be addressed in general, strengthening the education system and strengthening the teachers, but we also need to deal with the specific issues of class distinctions in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u52	Mr. President. This is certainly a very important matter, thanks to why. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson for his initiative in this. Thanks to the Minister, too. There is nothing more to see than that there is a school system that must look for a larger solution. One thing may lie in the classroom, whether a person is really studying to become a teacher or a teacher, as noted. It's known that the lock problem is more about boys than girls. As a result, you may wonder, " This may be a picture of a far more extensive social reality, which may even be seen. Because young boys are less read than girls. This is shown by the fact that boys are falling away from high school. This shows that men are in much less education and are among the graduates of the doctors. Also, scary numbers are about young men, family men, soccer fans, educated men who fall at their own hands. They need to dig for the reasons why young men experience themselves in this community in the way these facts are evident. [[The president calls.]] There must be a careful search for explanations, and there can be no exception, no social discussion, or anything else. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. This group has no proverbs in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u53	Mr. President. I'm going to wind up thanking you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Andri Thorsson and the highest. Minister for taking the discussion, this is an enormously important discussion, and using my two minutes to direct my opinion on what needs to be done immediately to cope with the reading problem. He appeared to us in many ways, but especially in the case of boys like many before me. I think we need immediate action, that the problem begins early, at school, even earlier. We've been talking about psychiatry in high school, that's not a question, we're supposed to finish, including... The primes, which now aren't many from the government, will finish what is already on the committee, about psychology services in high school and college, will start in it. There must be a clear line of measures in which all will receive assistance when they are measured at 46.5 years of age. Why do I say that? It just can't wait. We need to invest in this help right away because if boys of this age, and research, we've shown this, we're realizing that they're only bad or a little scared, then it's very hard to get them back to the book or to the computer or what it is to get them to read. We must commend our boys. They need commendation, they put their arms around them, and it has to be done very much. For the slightest progress, they need to be put around the system and at home, and they need to be encouraged, for this is a direct disease called an outing. If we immediately cope with this problem and invest in resources for these children, we will also work against deportation later. I remember a study conducted in Norway showing that those kids who have entered the global improvement system before they are 25 years old, that is a direct link to those who had difficulty reading and other things in elementary school. So it's national savings too. It's an investment. We're supposed to invest in better research, we're supposed to increase access to speech pathologists, we're supposed to have more speech encouragement, and when our children are shot, and we're getting something done right now, we're also supposed to take parents to a course to help them. [[The president calls.]] So this is an investment, Mr. President, it comes back a lot, we should start right away, we should stop these analyses, we should start helping, we should start training and we should start teaching. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Teachers are ready and we're supposed to be there to support them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u54	President wants to ask why. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u55	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson for starting this discussion and participating in the highest measure. Minister. The discussion of the tongue, reading, and ability to communicate, and understanding the written text, is quite new. We've been discussing the growing illiteracy and background of our youngest people for many years, following along, talking and scraping in the community and here at the high General Assembly. It has been agreed with a comprehensive conference proposal for grammar, a suggestion to make a program aimed at strengthening language technology and strengthening the position of the tongue. A white book has been written. In fact, in 2015 a national agreement was made for locks, signed by the then educational minister. What has been the result? Is the council, the lawgiver, clear and focused in this regard? I'm sorry. The case is thrown into suspension. It still seems to lean on the bad side. In some cases the government has simply set its foot on measures that reduce the spread of books, readings, and training of a language, as shown by the increase in worthy taxation of books around 2015. The situation of the Icelandic language, if left unchecked, has so many reasons that in the decades ahead, it will weaken. Its situation, according to the report, is even when it compares with other European topics and is considered, in particular, digital information technology and computer environment in everyday life. Collegeers have fought to see that our tongue and future will be attentive, presented plans and policy for advancement, but not exactly welcomed. We are here to speak with one clear voice. We are to stand up for our tongue to protect ourselves and show it by our actions. We need to take this seriously, and we need to take it now. Our educational institutions are doing good language work within their assigned limits from the time of their high school careers. This includes all of us, schools, parents, and grandparents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u56	A respectable president. I would like to express my satisfaction that this reading is under consideration. At the same time, I welcome a recent reporting on literature policy published on the Ministry of Education. Friday. All discussions about reading and reading have meaning in adding the setting of reading and strengthening locks. Sadly, for over many years we slept as a nation on our guard, being helpless, as it were. The perfunctory put it. For a short time, public talk about locks did not make a distinction between reading and reading words, and being able to interpret text into understanding, what is endeavored to measure in reading tests. I believe, though, that last year's discussion has helped us to see that we are now more generally aware of the fact that reading can be accomplished only by extensive reading. And to read is a cooperation project of homes, schools and society. A number of interesting legislators are now being performed in films and elementary schools, some because of national agreements on locks, others within individual schools or rural communities, but all contribute to better results. Like reading the world or reading the Bible, these are tasks. The lock-up projects of the National Institute of Education then create a backland for this work done in the schools. Reading is a social project in a variety of ways. It is vital, therefore, that governments continue to support reading projects as well as to look to other fields for improvement, such as by publishing data, access to books on paper, electronic books, audio textbooks, and Icelandic texts. In English, the dead are interwoven.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u57	V.E.G. President. For years, Finland's educational system has been noted for its prowess and achievements. in the good results of the PISA studies. What have the Icelanders done or not done that makes our success less good? And what have the Finns done that we could record in this country? On the other hand, the performance of Icelandic students is not good, according to a recent report by the Norwegian Minister. Looking back on other northern countries, Finland is released from the results of the first PISA study in 2001. There, Finns have always been in the top seats in those articles where mathematics, reading performance, and natural science are being examined. When looking for reasons, there are curious facts. There is considerable distribution of power in Finnish education, rural society, school directors, and teachers in Finland that have much more freedom than in this country. For emphasises and solutions in study material and teaching methods, there is a big difference. Much respect is given to the teachers'class in Finland. Each year the best students in the country turn to teaching school. There's fewer people than they can find. V.E.G. President. As mentioned earlier, Finnar has survived in recent studies, especially in elementary schools. Finnish schools seem to serve their students well regardless of family patterns, economic background and/or ability. The gradual changes that have taken place in the Finnish school system have proved to be successful on a global scale, which has caused the world to be intrigued by what Finns do right. Would it not be right for us to consider this matter further?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u58	A respectable president. A educational system that does not bring benefit to people who are able to read is not something we are going to accept. We've begun. The national treaty started on 2015 is not an effort but a long-term project with long-term changes in the system. Granted, it takes a considerable amount of time to correct the situation, but it may be four main points. First, the reading capacity required to follow up on the project was started and the results closely monitored. The debate on education, however, is not to be carried out when studies show poor results. Rather, we should always be improving, improving, and challenging in the group. Second, it is a agreement between home and school to ensure parental participation. As mentioned here, teaching is conducted in schools, but it is the training at home, which is vital. It is a correlation between reading and reading ability, as in the eye. If a child has difficulty reading, it is also difficult to understand what is being read. Practice makes perfect. Third, it is a consulting aid for schools and teachers available, and many have made good use of it. It is based, not on a single method, but on the support of the schools for reading and studying. Fourth, cooperation with rural society is being made up of a plan for raising children's reading minds and following ups, ensuring that they reach the goal of reading and understanding. The Senate put a lot of money on the project. First evidence of success is fine. Yet, as in the past, it is impossible to say right away. I have high hopes that here we will succeed. The objective is to establish a national law on locks and become part of a future general school program. We need to look to the future. There's been a really good discussion here. I'm so glad this continues in the highest priority. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u59	Mr. President. We got a presentation this morning at the General Education Committee, where I was nominated. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Asvardótir has a lock-in programme. It seems to me quickly this is a professional job, that we're on the right track, but like a dog. A senator who spoke before me mentioned this is a long-term project. I like that. I also like the Minister of Education we've arrived with, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir. She's a professional, she's really busy, she gets things done. I feel like we're in good hands with the rest. I would like to mention a few things that are important when reading. I'm very dyslexic myself, I can still read slowly, i.e. I'm not exactly dyslexic, but when I read it, I didn't get out like I used to. Sometimes I couldn't go through one line, then my mind had come somewhere, and I didn't realize it until I was at the bottom of the page. It was by chance that I would heal myself by learning memory technology. Because as soon as you can have a picture of the word in your head, you don't get out. It's this David's technique with clay and stuff. A key element when it comes to whether you have dyslexia is that you get the resources that help you, so you don't have to wait until one day you may learn things accidentally, possibly, possibly, memory technology, or even accidentally rambling. It's important that kids get the help they need so they don't have a problem anymore. It's not a problem as soon as you get help. Another one. I myself have a baloney attention deficit and hyperactivity, as it were, but hyperactivity moves on when you get older, irritability is there, and so forth. It's making it extremely difficult. Disturbing is the wrong word. It's a selective attention deficit. Choosing to focus on what's in front of me. I really can't. I have some medicines that I can take to help me do this, but it's extremely difficult. Let me tell you something, you're gonna hurt your brain if you have to. That's why it's so important that it's fun when you're studying with ADHD. [[The president calls.]] Because if it's fun, I got super-tempered, I can learn all day what I enjoy. I'd look to make sure that it's fun for children to read, then they'll read.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u60	President wants less of it. In the United States alone, a member of Parliament is a member of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u61	President. First, I want to thank you for this fine discussion and agree with all of the people here who have pointed out that the very first basis for success in all other school classes is that of a very important support to all community involvement in the end of the life. This has been the subject of the educational system and the importance of good teachers and all of it. But I'd like to stop for a moment at what the proverb put on some emphasis, i.e. The book itself, this item that we need to ensure that in order to support the locks, and especially the libraries, it is because strong libraries are all about equalizing people's situation regardless of rank or rank. I especially mention the libraries because they are of utmost importance to the children who are learning to read and who need to have access to all the interesting books that are available to them. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson mentioned earlier. There is some concern that during the past few years, loans have been added, whether because of the process of extracting or because of the lack of more selection of new original and well - translated children's books. That's what we need to fix. If we also look at the loans of books over the whole system, it turns out that children's books last year represent nine out of ten of the most loaned books. So there's an increase in money to the library, a look at the environment of the library, a huge increase in children's accounting and support. Because an apocalyptic named here, I'd like to mention a national gift, because we're facing this year's 100th anniversary of the sovereignty. Isn't this material for the nation to themselves, to go beyond the collections of books, and to fill them with a new generation of children's books that are well translated, which fill the libraries and homes of the land, so that our children grow up and are excited to read their whole lives? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u62	A respectable president. I am infinitely grateful to the proprietor and the highest. A minister of education for our being here and now discussing this case, which is a misbehavior of our young people today. I've been calling down streets and squares for a year and a half, saying, "Do you realize that more than 30% of young boys graduate with poor reading or misreading from grade 10? I say, raising books is a good price. It is a good price to have all sorts of screens, but it is quite clear that these figures speak for themselves. More than 30% of boys with poor reading skills are graduated from the 10th grade, and we should first try to teach them how to read. How can we do that? At least it is not by extending the teacher's school for five years without any reward for it. In reality, it is time to think: Why is it calling for all this psychological service into high school? Can we not see in his hand that a 16 - year - old boy who steps into high school or high school and wants to learn in some area must give up? No one needs to be surprised if our young people feel miserable because they cannot read and are unable to follow along and observe what needs to be done. They're asking for psychological help. I'm sure it's rather than increasing the number of books and growing up the rest and this and spending money on the rest and getting the psychology help into the school system. Let's help the young people and put their arms around them. First and last, I'm gonna bring you a single bomb, chief. A president I think is really time to look at, but it's simply, "Stolen without separation."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u63	V.E.G. President. It's always important to use the chair, this great democracy device, and I know that all members of Congress respect the chair and would rather take advantage of it than to get stuck between sweets here. I'm going to go back to where it's been gone. We've been covering this with shit, as far as I'm concerned. We've written endless reports. It's time for us to take real action. We need to look at better study tools, other study tools, finer selections, and encouraging books for our children, our boys, more speech encouragement. We are not to attach ourselves to the work form involved in the publication of the books. We are simply to look for the best books, whether it is the national edition, the previous study aid agency, or anyone else. The same thing about the speech pathologists, we have to look for the ministry where it is to stimulate our children and ensure their ministry. It's not my opinion that our boys are in the head, but as soon as they get into trouble, it's very hard to get them back into the system. That's why I'm stressing what I said earlier that we have to put our arms around them right away in high school. We must keep encouraging them for the slightest progress they are making and warm to them. Then they're with us on the team. It's only about the teacher's study. I say that because I have a very small responsibility to do so, with all political parties, no one would object to extending my teaching school. We looked back on Finland at the exact time. We asked: " What are the Finns doing that we don't do? They put their teachers in particular, from their teachers'training into their teachers'work. What we need to ask ourselves is, Why has the work not been accomplished? I have high hopes. A minister who has shown this exactness of understanding. The rest must be extended. Not only does it mean improving child training and teaching into the extra mines but we need to operate on it much better, possibly paying it too, and making sure teachers get a glimpse of the diversity of school work. [[The president calls.]] Not only do they send them to one school, since school is so different and different so that they can get experience in the field. [[The president calls.]] We need to make sure she comes even. through the teacher's training. Support our teachers, take action, and the future will be better for the Icelandic school system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u64	A respectable president. I thank everyone for their excellent contribution in the discussion that has been good and beneficial and has hopefully given the highest. Ministers and her people have a lot to think about. Only with regard to collections of books as easily as possible. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson mentioned. The contributions to textbooks have not been involved in reading conflicts. On the contrary, the schools have made money. There are plenty of books that have worked hard to publish and are designed for children, good and pleasant books, but these books have not found enough access to the classrooms because they have not had the volume to buy books. I want to end this by reviewing an experience I had the other day. Many were told about young boys and their problems. I was in a dressing room in a pool and I hear a father there with his boy, they're talking about the other thing, and the boy says to his dad, "Dad, Dad, do you know what potatoes are in Icelandic?" My father says, "What are the potatoes in Icelandic?" In English they are apples of earth, the boy's crumbling, and his kroner skin is full of knowledge. My father is pleased with this knowledge. But I started thinking about it while I was listening to them that it's not really quite right for the little boy. Maybe I should have corrected him. Because potatoes in Icelandic are potatoes. An apple is just a word that was put around potatoes, but it never made its way into the Icelandic language. This little boy felt that Icelandic was a different language than he himself spoke. [[The president calls.]] He spoke a language where potatoes are potatoes, but Icelandic is a language in which potatoes are called apples. We need to teach our boys and our kids that Icelandic is our business. Icelandic isn't foreign.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u65	A respectable president. I thank all those who have participated in the discussion greatly for their inputs. There have been many good comments and ideas about how we are going to engage in this work. I'm just gonna go to Finland and tell you what the Finns did back then. After the second world war, they were in a very difficult economic situation, and society was on a turning point. They reasoned: " How are we going to become industrialized, face the challenges that we face? They were facing great war reforms, a tragic loss during the second world war, but the national tendency was to do so in connection with education. In 1952, the entire body of Congress was united in the process of extensive systems of education and education. As a result, they succeeded in making their education system feel like the best part. More important, they constantly revise what they are doing to meet the needs of present times. I've been looking at Finland and the education systems that are doing their best alone. When I was there during the days, I met the Korean minister, who said: "We are facing these challenges now. As a matter of fact, I think we're going to be very successful and have a vision that the Icelandic education system will become one of the best before long. And I said, " What advice do you give me when we face this challenge involving reading and other such? ' He said, "I'm going to give you one piece of advice. Strengthen all requests around your teachers. " We have always done so. We're not just doing this in the last few decades. We've been doing this for years. Teachers are highly respected. We'll make sure that they're able to go on with their education and so on. I am convinced that the New World Translation will make that journey. [[The president calls.]] We will all do so together to achieve good results.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u66	Mr. President. I'm going to direct a request to the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture on People's Schools, which may as well be called a People's School. There is something that you can wonder about. Not long ago, I was in Florence at the main meeting of those who are triggering a major campaign, the University of People at Flatland. I'd like to say in view of the discussion we had earlier regarding a detailed reading sense in the Icelandic school system that leads to a major evaporation problem, some of which would be able to meet that problem. Then it is important to have a vision of the highest degree. A minister of that important work. I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister realizes that in the North, especially in Denmark, a very productive work is being done in very varied public schools. They are high at 80 schools, sports, cultural, work and trade schools, etc. They are well supported by the government in Denmark, and this is how a wide variety of individuals and individuals who have not been found in Danish school systems. But this has also helped those students to come back to school. This is a direct correlation between those who have gone to a public school and those who have since pursued additional education and knowledge. It's interesting for every community. For 15 million people, the University of Flatland was designed. K. 'Environment' of budget 2017. It was put in the museum at the Ministry of Education and Culture and assigned to the Minister of Ministers of Education, Kristján Þór Júlíusson 5 million. K. to the project that runs to the People's University in Flattu and the Western Educational Center. I'd like to know what the minister's plan is regarding financial support for this school in Flatty, but also for LungA, in the East. We know that on account of Iceland's Youth Association, we're in the middle of a public school in Lake Saturday, but it's still longer. I believe, on the one hand, that it is important to have a complete perspective and a minister of this suit and then to know how the Minister intends to support Flatus. Is it possible that the People's University of Florence could gain additional support, increased money that was specifically marked by an earmark for this assignment? Very much. Ministers have taken the initiative to cooperate with LungA and Flattage in connection with the establishment of these schools, and the initiative to make these matters clearer and sharper? It is the uncertainty, which is bad for such important organizations, especially for fracture - resistant organizations, such as Flatland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] To establish a powerful foundation for the community, not just for the neighboring community of Flatty, but also for the community as a whole, would be a matter of seeing that we have different ways for different needs in the community within the school system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is timely because several parties are interested in starting a community college; LungA in Sufjörður, which began as an art festival of young people; amateurs for the establishment of a public university in Flatland, which has begun with a project there; and Iceland's Young People's Society, who intend to set up a university on Lake Saturday. Like what? A member of the Parliament is aware of the approval of the General Assembly of a People's School of Publicity on June 2, 2016, where Ministers of Education and Culture were assigned to start working on a bill for public law on public colleges in Iceland. The aim of the legislator is to make public college an acceptable choice for education that has legal resources and government support. At work, people's university activities in other parts of the North countries were to be looked to. The mission was to provide a minister with a bill for a national university law no later than the 2017 spring council. I have decided to resume work on a bill that is linked to a community college, with the primary objective of creating a frame around their activities as a model to the north. There are many opinions that should be taken into account in the preparation of the law, such as where the decision-making process for such schools should lie, who should cost the schools, how to monitor, and what conditions must be met as a public university. In addition to this, a decision must be made regarding the responsibilities of the state and of our community toward the local community, to name just a few. It is important to examine the relationship between people and other institutions of education, such as guidelines that provide advanced education for adults, high school, and university. Questiones, like. whether education at the public university will become a requisite for further or university studies, it also needs to be answered and how the study will be evaluated. According to the Norwegian high school tradition, it is not in general a formal study evaluation, and the study is not a factor for after or for college, although there are a few exceptions. Sweden has e.g. People who study at a high school that is considered to be a component, but that is not true in Denmark. It emphasizes that there is no academic academic academic study and that the study is not organized as part of college or college. There are, however, some universities in Denmark who have appreciated studies in individual public schools on several levels. This assessment is based on the cooperation of the people's university and university. Despite the lack of formal studies in public college, the university needs to appreciate the study for unity. The 3rd. budget 2017 came into the budget of a temporary donation of 15 billion. K. to become one-year-old to develop projects about public college. In view of the situation back in the fall of 2017, it was decided that 5 million of the contributions to the Western Educational Center and 5 million to the LungA in Sufficiency, and they were assigned to carry out assignments for the community school. The decision was to hold on to money in order to work on a bill so that we would strengthen the legal setting around the public university. A respectable president. I want to study these matters with an open mind and to finish my work living at these schools legally, including the location of the public bodies that the funding of this operation should be considered. I believe that public schools can play a very important role in education in Iceland, and they have very good evidence that they can meet the needs of a more diverse student group. The experience of public college in Denmark is very good. I think it's a very exciting project we're going to go to the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u68	A respectable president. I'm glad there's a debate over the status of a people's university. There has been an unregistered social school in Sufficiency since 2014. I am so happy that this work is about to begin at the Ministry of Education - or continue. Even though we do not have a special setting for them and may be reminded of the public schools that served at the beginning of the last century, there is a history here in the country. I was so lucky myself that I received part of a smaller school course in the German School of the Aegeans, which in many respects based on and still lived on the National College tradition of America. I'd also like to call attention to a synopsis proposal that has a talk into this conversation, about a Western postschool that was here for the weekend; the postschools have a lot to do with the People's Schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u69	Mr. President. I welcome this inquiry from what it is. A senator and a positive answer from the highest. Minister. My opinion is that the institution of a community college in Florence contains wholesome, realistic plans. Ice farm is a deeply established civilization, but Flatus is part of it. It's full of social, sports, educational, and cultural life. The helicopters are eager to welcome visitors, both Icelanders and people from all over the world, and they are the princes of the world. The writer of this convention recommended a judicial hearing for the development of Western postschools, such as have been observed in Denmark and elsewhere, a proposal to cooperate with Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. It is interesting to consider whether this suggestion could fall into plans for the establishment of a public university in Flattage. Flare is on the seaside where seafronts have been living, and our jobs are similar to those of the Western countries that we work in cooperation with. Thus, professional and cultural relationships are significant. Mr. President. I'm the highest. Ministers to welcome and support these plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u70	Mr. President. I understand with regard to the University of People at Florence, which has been established by a association to establish, that the study will be expected to be two semesters, or as said in an interview with the head of the school, with permission of the president: ▪ We're guessing that the study will be two semesters, but we haven't ruled out that people can come for six months. And then it's gonna be run in cycles, and there's not going to be a standard school syllabus. The courses will be about music, films, and the environment and nature. If I get this right, people can come and learn, there's no way to determine what the courses are, which way they should be exactly or so. I think it's a very positive development. I was in that environment in Thailand at one time. After a complete walk in the Icelandic educational system that was not suitable for me, I began traveling around the world. I started traveling around the world. In Thailand, I went to a bookstore with used books, and I found a book there entitled 'Teach Yourself to Tink, or I taught you how to think, by Edward de Bono. I got curious again, wanted to go back to studying, and since then I haven't really done anything else. The education system here had managed to beat me out of the will to learn until I found myself in an environment where I had the freedom to do what I wanted to do in that regard. [[The president calls.]] I was curious again. I haven't stopped since.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for her inquiry and bringing this subject to the discussion and to the highest degree. Minister of Education and Culture for explaining the work of the Ministry. I'm happy for everything that's been said about this school, because it's part of making our education system more diverse and full of need. Here's a sign. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir at the public school and the teenage society's work with leadership and social skills. This image fits in with a click. I wanted to agree with what. That's what a head starter is doing, supporting the school planned on Lake Lava because if we look into the work market into the future, the qualities that we look at are the very leadership, initiative, social skills, and the ability to work together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u72	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. It includes a promise that she will continue to do so. I'm glad to hear it. I thought it was very clear. This is really part of a question period, not prepared or prepared, returns. There's a conversation between the legislature and the executive. And I'm particularly welcome and understanding minister of this. People of the university, such as what's going on in Flatty and is in preparation, are part of improving options within the educational system, informalally as a formal basis. There's a bigger knowledge community. And then I'd like to point out the highest. Ministers and others agree that while formal unity cannot be obtained, we have a system, adult education, after instruction. Me and the Icelanders have come a long way in evaluating adult education into the school system, the experience we gain in our daily lives. It's incredibly valuable. It also comes as part of education and can become formal education. I think it's important for me to get to the top. Ministers give clear answers to those in Flatus who are building a very remarkable project. As soon as I'm glad a minister is going to put in a bill I'm looking forward to discussing the university of People, we know that nothing will be ready until the next winter at first. I don't think the Flats can wait that long and that's when they're at the top. A minister to continue and take this spark, which is also in Seytur, LungA, gives them the opportunity to survive until we here at the council have taken up the bill and settled it. Each loss matters, both for Flaturús, but also for those who have such a certain hope of entering the school system, take careful steps, and then continue into life with only more food than ever before. I encourage ministers to act. I trust her to continue this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u73	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir on the importance of the total market between the European Commission and the legislators because there are also certain official policies that I think are exemplary. Here come members of Congress, bringing up policies related to the public university. It is quite true that it is very important that we in the Ministry provide clear answers regarding the process so that we can develop these activities and that we, the executives, make sure we bring a bill that strengthens or makes legal arrangements for a public school so that it is clear in the direction we are going. I think it might come out really well. Also, we need to look for one of the greatest challenges we face is the vast elimination from school, especially for young boys, who tell us that we need to expand our learning habits. One down. A senator described his journey to Thailand and said that she had encouraged him to study further and to approach the challenges he faced in a traditional school system. Of course, it is also an inspiration for those who offer other forms of study and can further encourage those in the community to see new ways in which they study or new ways related to what they are going to choose in life. I think this debate and the development regarding the public college is a long time ago. In many ways, it is quite remarkable that we have not gone further in Iceland as far as education was being shaped here at the beginning of the last century, when peoples were seen in the North countries. [[The president calls.]] This is therefore a cause for great rejoicing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u74	A respectable president. In the 147th legislature council, a conquistador proposal was submitted. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir was a 1st transporter. The proposal was to assign the current health minister to start working with a health plan for Iceland. That decree was adopted in May by the General Assembly last year. It should be noted how important it is to start policy measures in such important health issues. This is important for both public health and improved health care and as a means for the financial well - being that we want to maintain. The above synonym suggested that this schedule include: take into account geographic factors such as transport and distance between habitats. In addition, localisations of health institutions, older populations, the location of a medical vehicle, the availability of medical flights, the number of tourist facilities, and the country's home would be taken into account. The programme will also take into account application tools, whether or not it is possible to use empty medical facilities in the country and thus reduce pressures at land hospitals. Therefore, I would like to examine how work is being conducted by a health - care programme and therefore ask this inquiry to the highest level. Minister of health, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, in the following questions. 1st What is the temporal minister for the preparation of the healthcare programme, and with whom will the plan be consulted? 2. Is it defined in the medical programme which service should the National Hospital render, the services of health care facilities in the country and the services to be performed by private citizens? 3. Do geographic factors, such as transportation and distances, be taken into account in a health plan? 4. Is prevention, public health, health development in health care centres, population age combinations, medical transportation sites, and means of emergency flight access to health care? 5. Is there a medical program that will help you to avoid stress from the Land Hospital for Disease Control and Health Care Centres? 6th Is the Ministry of Economics and Education and Culture developing a health plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. The candidate will try to answer the questions presented in the question box. Senator. First, the senator asks about the time frame and who will be consulted. The government's declaration of policy clearly shows that the government will meet health policies for Iceland based on the needs of all the people and will better define the role of specific factors in health care and their interaction. The Declaration also says that the aims and means of health care will be developed in cooperation with the profession and the surgeon's office in order to contribute to the good health of the nation and provide a desired healthcare professional site. It is my goal to submit a judicial hearing proposal for health policy at the coming council, i.e. A total of 149 legislature, winter in 2018-2019. Following this work, the Ministry of Health will conduct a policy-based operation. I also plan to hold the next fall, hopefully in October, the date has not been fixed, where the discussion of some aspects of health care will be discussed. Hv. A senator asks about the services of the individual health care provider. In order to answer that the key objective of the policy in the services of Home Hospital and National Health Centres in the country has not been defined yet, but the health - care laws specifically discuss the activities of the Land Hospital. That law defines him according to his position in the medical system as the principal hospital for the country and a university hospital. Hospitalised Hospital Services, including those in the U.S.A. in walk-and-day departments, for all nationals and general hospital services for the citizens of the health sector of the capital. The hospital's role is further expressed in five counts of health care laws. That's where even the two of them come from. that the hospital should provide specialist services in almost all recognized medical and nursing centres in the country using access to supportive and research centres. Health care laws also include hospital operations at Akureyri, district hospitals, health care professionals, as well as staff members of specialized health care and general and specialized medical care. In wintertime, or early fall, a health - care team was appointed to identify the existing specialist services in the medical institutions, in the form of such services being performed, and in the manner of cooperation between institutions. The group also has the responsibility to determine the preferred services to be performed in national health institutions and how it would be best to ensure patient access to that service. This service group will submit its results and this work will then be useful in the field of health care. Hv. A senator asks about geographic factors. Of course, it is a key element of policy to ensure continuous access to everyone's health care. The objective is that it is independent of the habitat, and it is a means by which it is established. But as noted here, it must be subject to certain limitations. Then we need to define the extent to which these limitations can be and how far we can be in the local ministry. That's what we need to define. In each medical setting, there is a health care provider or agency that provides general health care in the districts and in accordance with local regulations for health care professionals and the health care services provided there. Hv. A senator asks about prevention, human health, population development, etc. It says that special emphasis will be placed on prevention and human health, but I believe that we should make much more effective use of public health laws acting according to health laws in Iceland as a surgeon's office in which we will be able to provide an overview of public health in each district in comparison with the country as a whole. These public health experts are aimed at making it easier for rural society and health care to identify the facilities in their district, find strengths and weaknesses, and understand the needs of the population, etc. Hv. A senator asks for a health plan and if adequate medical care can be used in the country. Of course, this is to do so and to improve the interaction between the individual aspects of the ministry. At last, it's a question. A senator for the cooperation of economics and specific departments, and hopefully I'll find it better in my second answer than we already have a map of those partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for offering this inquiry that focuses our attention on health matters and on their organization. And I thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. We don't need another plan, Mr. President. We need a course of health care that will guide us progressively, a kind of guide and compass, in which the service is well defined, where goals are set, and where goals can be measured and if goals are achieved. A new and sparkling report published this morning is a heartbreaking confirmation of non-routine policy, a headless campaign. The guide for this key service of ours is to be people's health, equal to all the peoples, quality and effectiveness. This is not to be a wish list and a beautiful promise. Rather, it is a well - thought - out assessment of the need we see. The assembly of health - care programs throughout the country can make a difference as to whether we will be able to maintain our country. This presents a challenge. Icelanders are a well - educated people who can cope with this assignment and solve it. Mr. President. We're not supposed to get fired, believe in God and luck. [[The president calls.]] It won't do any longer to think, "It's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u77	V.E.G. President. Thank you for asking why. paritaprevir All Halla Sisunnads' Kristjánsdóttir and answers to the highest. Minister. This is a multiple question and I can agree that policy is important. My input into this discussion turns to it as a matter of time. A senator entered his question, i.e. for the prevention and for the health of the people. V.E.G. A minister named here public health checks, and to get a perspective on the situation and associated it well with the Supreme Declaration. Governments. That's where even the two of them come from. to aim for the application of economic incentives to improve human health. Could be the top. Ministers come to that point in their reply at the end of the discussion, where it is, and in the course and course, i.e. What the hell. Will a minister support himself in that regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u78	Mr. President. Some time ago, I asked a local surgeon, Birgir son of Jakobsson, what priority was it to restore the health system, the three things he would put first. He mentioned it first, and I've mentioned it repeatedly since, the health care in the country, special service out in the country, and talked about the possibility of doing so through the Land Hospital - a man gets it into the Land Hospital by contracting his own country - and then ensuring a location for the Lands Hospital. Now this same man, the Birgir of Jakobsson, is a helper to the daughter of Liggis, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, the chief. Minister of health, - future. [[Foreground on: Valuable.]] So I am very optimistic about the future. The same man showed me that we have a plan to make health policy ready, so there is someone who wants to finish this course, that we get a complete picture of how our health systems are going to run and can begin to refer to it in order to call out for funding to make sure that we are doing the service we are doing. [[The president calls.]] We're here to support the health minister in this regard. [[The president calls.]] We are to support the assistant in completing this situation so that the money meets where we want them to meet. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm gonna do. I am very optimistic about the future of the medical system under their guidance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u79	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Healthcare Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir. I hear it's in good hands. I'm glad to hear that this work is in the lake. I think that's important. I also thank the members of the council who have entered the discussion. I agree with their comments, it is important that health institutions and the role of health institutions throughout the country are defined, since they have to work on a set budget and plan. Once a health plan has arrived to be available, they can work further ahead and be more specific. It's important for us to have a health plan, it's an important plan made up of financial programs ahead. Healthism is a natural red thread throughout all the state's lawsuits, and it should be a realistic and responsible course to be essential and a major variable in other areas. That's why it's very important, and hopefully it'll come out as soon as possible. I trust this work is in good hands. It's a big public health issue, so it's important. It has to do with many factors, such as communities and the situation we want to see that the entire nation, whether the Landskeeper or his cooperation, also separates and specializes in itself, since we are, for example, ours. losing a lot of experts from the country. How important it is that we make it as soon as possible! I say like what? paritaprevir Brjánsson, we don't need a plan, we need a course. I would have thought it was almost the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u80	A respectable president. I still want to thank you for your discussion and say a few words at the end. First of all, I'd like to agree with what's going on. A senator and his current distinguished president, Brjánsson, mentioned earlier on the report of the Government Accounting of Iceland's Medical Insurance. There, the Government Accounting takes so deep in the years to say that the aimless characteristic of the group, that's a big word, and is concerned that money has not been used to the best of its means. So it is of utmost importance, and it has been repeated in setting a policy so that we are all on the same path in this vital issue. My goal is that health policy will be the AESCO decision, i.e. That a plagion proposal to be submitted to the General Assembly will be completed in a tripolitic agreement. I think it's very important that health policy succeeds in elections and changes governments, etc., so it becomes part of a sealed community contract that the nation can pass on. There will be transfers and individual actions, etc. More from year to year, as normal. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson asked about economic motivation and public health emphasis, which are very important. The organized sports and youth service will be late overrated in this regard. There have also been some ideas of using the tax system for the sake of public health goals. I'd also like to mention that the product number one in this work all about health policy in Iceland - I believe that this is in accordance with the nation's will, and that is actually according to research - is to ensure constant access to strong health care without regard to the economy. I think we should agree here at the Council that we shall become our primary objective.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u81	Mr. President. As many are aware, the capital area, the Great Sorceration Area, the burglary fields, and a considerable number of crimes are involved. Then, when the figures are compared from the previous year, there is an increase that is not very extensive but, nevertheless, a few. After this burglary, it remains a strong suspicion that there is now an organized violation of crime in January, where there was a burglary in the local home. It's like you can see it and go into a bedroom tunnel that doesn't have motion sensors, etc. This has been as one expressed it, continuously, began in mid - December and has stood almost continuously ever since. It's only natural for people to discuss this and to have mayors in the area, the mayor of Garville and others, talk about unpleasant conditions. The same is true in Hafnarfjördur. It is normal to direct that request to the highest level. Minister of Justice whether a minister has found out specifically about this peculiar and evil situation in the capital area regarding domestic burglaries and the highest. A minister has taken steps to stop the burglaries in the area. Of course, there is a need for more police officers already. This is part of strengthening and strengthening the interiors of the country, including the police, i.e. ... togainthepolitans. But I'm curious about this inquiry as to whether it's at the highest level. Ministers have discussed these matters with the police and what can be done to stop burglary and what message they have reached. Ministers have members of the rural government, to local residents, and at the same time those who are planning and trying to wade into people's houses, not just on their dirty shoes, but for a questionable purpose. It's that uncomfortable feeling when people come home, and I've talked to some people who have faced burglary, that's powerless. How can you improve the security of the people in your territory? Is there anything a minister sees in the cards? Is there a better way to correct this by more targeted action on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, with good reason to be present at the Hall of Congress and elsewhere, a situation that has been in the news on the issue of violations and on the increase of the burglary or some sort of burglary. It may not be right to talk about the growing burglary, I'm going over it right after. It is true that there is good reason to be concerned when news is coming from some sort of burglary, or some kind of crash, of any sort. This has now been reported in the neighboring communities of Reykjavík. A report this morning from a Western land that is taken to the court of the home thus violated its immunity. It's very serious. I'm using an ideal week, by the way. to meet with the police in the capital area, the police directors, and discussed these matters. I was assured that the police are very aware of this, and I work hard to do what is in her power to prevent these offenses, and in any case, to inform them when it has not been possible to prevent them. But the police have stressed and strongly urged the general public to consider prevention of every household. It will probably never be too often said on the basis of the importance of prevention. I have also requested general permission from the chief of police in the capital area to see if any special action was taken because of the burglary. A senator referred to him. In answer to my office, it was found that this burglary is seriously viewed by the office. Enlightenment is high priority. A special team of investigators and other police experts have also been put together in the capital area to investigate these matters. You're right. A senator noted that in some cases it seems that it is organized in a case that calls for other forms of research and more detailed than traditional break - ups, so to speak. I would also like to mention that I called for figures on the development of thievery during the past few years. It is a pleasure to mention that the number of thefts has been greatly reduced according to the State Marshal's criminal statistics, published annually. Most theft offenses, and I'm aiming at 244rd degree fractures. Penalties, occurred in 2009. There were 3,524 fractures. Longest in the capital area. But most of them were not available in 2016, or 1,038. I do not have confirmed figures for 2017, but there are a number of fractures in this range. It would be tempting for me to count this as a sign of the increase in prosperity that I think, indeed, after the Independence Party first participated in a government, but I see it on the number that it is not to salute, I can say it, for the breaking of too many in the years before collapse to the whole prosperity. So it's not related to this violation of the general economy. Perhaps I don't think it's safe to say anything about it. These pieces are all the most disgusting, like a whale. A senator mentioned. People experience much discouragement and distress after such a violation. It is very important that the authorities are able to broadcast the message that they are doing what the authorities can to prevent them. So I'm gonna mention these numbers. These break-ins have gone very low. The police have an active surveillance program in every neighborhood in the capital area and all over the country, although we really want to do better with it, for example. to increase the number of police cars traveling in an apartment area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u83	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for this inquiry. It's important to pick this up at the highest. Minister of Justice and I also thank you for the highest. Minister for her answers and responses. It's good to have a good time. Minister has taken care of answers and taken up the case with the police. As we have seen, the reaction needs to be rapid, strong, and clear to indicate that the problem we have seen is being addressed in our week - to - day trip. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns, went and listened to the local authorities in Garðaville, in Kopavogi, Hafnarfjordur. It seems, as noted, to discuss complex, ice - cold, and measured crime. This activity has been characterised by the fact that people's homes are being entered during the day, and it is, of course, really unpleasant. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. A minister when she comes back at the discussion to explain what the rest of the discussion will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u84	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the starter's presentation of this inquiry. It comes in itself as a logical continuation of the last week's discussion of law enforcement in the country, the police. I listened to the top answers. Ministers who were good and through and thank you for them. Nevertheless, in the final analysis, the safety of the citizens will be enhanced only by strengthening the police, meeting them, I would like to say modest wishes that have come from the police for growth, and this will be a real check and initiative which has not been possible because the police have been reduced to such enormous shifts in the capital area, as mentioned last week. There are 88 officers who are needed to serve in Reykjavík in a manner similar to that of the 20th century. There will be no avoiding the power now to promote law enforcement in the capital area in an effort to control and prevent the criminal activity that is, as we have seen, very much misery for people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u85	Mr. President. Yes, promoting law enforcement is absolutely inevitable. Not only because of this burglary but also the organized violation, which is clearly linked. Because it seems to be, both for the minister's answers, and also for walking through the data and interviews that have been taken. The law needs to be promoted. Reports, reports and reports have been published, including On the contrary, here at the council. I'm not going to criticize one class over another. However, all classes were under the direction that there was a need to increase the number of policemen in the capital area. If the highest. Minister of Justice needs support in order to promote the police. Minister of Support for Correction. So they say. It is vital that we work to strengthen the law of law, though much has been done within the present - day frameworks of the police. What was shown during the week's election after conversation with both the voters and the local government, and it was quite clear, that, apart from education and transportation, this infrastructure has to be strengthened. Everyone took out the importance of the police, holding it better, making the police more visible, so that people could be more secure than is now in the capital area. This is the message we receive from rural communities, often under the leadership of the Independence Party. This is the message we're moving to the highest. Minister. I hope she takes good care of them. There is every reason to be very concerned about the activities of the crime and the more important that we at the council send out a message, also sending out the highest level. Ministers well down here, supports her developing the law enforcement force so that people in the capital area -- as I often repeat: The Great Lands - can sleep better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u86	A respectable president. I want to know that I too have had meetings and conversations with members of the local community in the city of Reykjavík and have listened to their concerns in these matters. Police and local authorities have had good cooperation, including the U.S. During the installation of surveillance cameras, which society has called very high levels of observation. I believe that the team should develop and cultivate more fully and without any reason to ignore the wishes of local management, have the wishes upstairs, take into account various personal protection plans and other things, which, of course, need to be looked at in the setting of such cameras. Such cameras and calls for them also show a change in environment and new possibilities and opportunities to cope with the problems of this crime. We're supposed to welcome technology and use it when it comes to it. As noted in last week's police discussion, there has been a significant increase in legal resources in recent years. We will continue to do so. I strongly emphasize that it will be for the purpose and with the aim of increasing the general police force, making the police more visible as possible, reevaluating the police'efforts to find ways to make it more practical to increase the number of police cars, which, of course, are the main means by the police to care for all the suburbs, the neighborhoods, there for regular monitoring. [[The president calls.]] I welcome their interest as a matter of course. Councilmen have shown these qualities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u87	Mr. President. Dataver is the subject of my inquiry to the highest. Minister. It's a little perturbing to monitor the development of data studios and their operating systems. Not everyone is sure, and I wasn't necessarily sure what a data station meant. When you start to learn more about this, and I already gave myself a specific basis, it can be a very diverse flea. We see that the data sets are increasingly becoming part of green industry, priorities are being made for international energy, which is thought to be more suitable than other industry. Where data have been targeted, where there is a particular policy, such as. in Sweden, a large number of technical and research companies have been collected. There you see a chance, including. for us Icelanders, to compete with the outside world, not only with foreign funds but also with our people who have educated themselves abroad. Because we need a variety of opportunities for our people. In Sweden, the opportunity has been new to build data figures. They have been cared for, as I had previously. There is a policy. And even published the policy of the tax system changes made, indiscriminates, and then a good support network with the data sets. In Iceland experts, and we last saw it yesterday in Korpu Square, say that there is a very desirable situation for the management of data organisms in Iceland. We have every opportunity to be a very leading nation in this regard. It then matters whether governments have developed policies and have a vision of the structure of data beings. There have been reports, including the other day, in the morning paper, it reminds me that certain concerns were in that we were putting all the eggs, i.e. all the data sets, in a very similar basket of bitcoin. Is it a bubble, or isn't it? I don't know. Hv. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy might be better to go over it. But I'm here trying to impress you on the policy of building data organisms, how data stations are supposed to build up, and then whether a minister is going to promote the tax will. Tells you the highest. Ministers of the tax will play a vital role in building them? We're seeing the tax wills that are on the table at the highest. A minister who comes to the land to an extraordinary extent through the construction of the film industry and culture. We see that tax wills can do a great variety of jobs for the people of the country. [[The president calls.]] Then I'd love to know if it's the highest. Ministers share with me the view that it's all Iceland, not just designated parts of the country, which are competing with the outside world, and that they tend to hold them all over the country, because we want the big corporations here to invest in green energy, which is in Iceland through the building of data organisms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u88	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator's inquiry is of interest and benefit, and this discussion has been helpful. We planned a work group last year, August, on the environment of data beings. The role of the group was to review the development and status of the data Being industry. We were trying to take the position as it is today, evaluating ways that governments can go to promote the position of industry and its future growth, including the future. In view of the rapid advances in technology and the social changes that we are going through, we certainly do. The Outfit has completed its task force. I have received an introduction to a report and will be leaving, probably Friday, with it and a memo to the government, followed by a publication on the Ministry's Web. This brings us with good information to talk from and a basis for working with. The situation today is that Iceland works in many ways as a source of data. This is what we know, and we've heard from the industry and this environment. The main basis for competition is green renewable energy, which can be obtained at a reasonably favorable price, despite the conflict between humans. But it seems to be the situation. Of course, the weather factor here contributes to the lower cooling cost of computers. It's gonna be a good time sometimes. However, this trend is diminished because of flexibility in the electricity market in neighboring countries, which is based on the integration of their electronic energy systems and other costly factors available there in better terms. These are primarily factors such as the number of datalinks and operators, prices on dimensional, transport sticks, and transparent electrical energy markets. An important currency for transport, distribution of electricity and system services is possibly an adverse priority for data beings. Today, we have a working group on the review of electrical laws for a major user scale. There's nothing I can tell you about right now, but I'm just saying that the crew is looking at the ways in which the company is capable of achieving a normal sync with the public and the shipping manifests. Legal adjustments may have to be made, which is the basis for the need for reimbursement. That's a check-in. I'm sure we'd like to offer some electronic energy here at least. Combatable ideals offered in neighboring countries At present, electricity is limited. This will be discussed in various contexts. There is some uncertainty about further energy efficiency that makes long-term data build-up programmes difficult. This reduces the market application to new data sources, both due to uncertainty about available energy levels and the time to deliver energy. On the basis of all of this, I certainly think that there will be a reason to look at changes in the environment of data beings, considering that increasing the competitiveness of data integration with abroad, e.g. increased connections and increased competition. This is key, and we're hearing it from the companies as well. That may even happen. An assessment of the current currency for transport, distribution of electricity and system services has been performed. Since 2018, the Icelandic government has been authorized to sell its stocks to Farice. I'm not running it here, but I'm suggesting there's a warrant. This is one of the things that we must consider especially when considering this report. They need to consider whether to sell it or to trade the company would increase market competition. Because it is dominant that companies feel that it is a key factor in the competition of this market. It is by no means default that governments would join in the formation of a new communal cord, but a new Kingdom - building cable is possible only by its appearance with new clients. The situation would not increase and make money from the local market. Therefore, it is necessary to have a firm commitment to buy a string of contacts from new clients before making the final decision to fix a new cable. In terms of the narrator's well-being, we are in the form of a tax exchange temporary agreement that can be made to promote new businesses and competitiveness in the country and strengthen edifice development. But today's law is that this point of regional development is essential to injuring. I'm not on my level to consider changing it, and I don't know what it would be like in a conversation with ESA. But this developing force is in the law, and I don't have it on the table to have a special opinion of it. I'm generally thinking that the environment should be practical and selective for this job structure, and I've been interested in hearing these key elements mentioned by the companies, that there is competition on the market, and that they're getting into energy. [[The president calls.]] Eventually, though, if necessary, do I thank the inquiry and comment further?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for taking up this important matter and the highest. Industrial and innovation minister for her answers. I can't wait to get this report through. Of course, we are just looking into the future with this possibility and an urgent need to consider these matters. It's turning toward energy policy, it's turning to communication, it's turning toward the legal environment and, like, the wind. A senator entered and the highest. Minister, it's turning to the tax environment. Hv. In 2016, a financial and business committee used legal adjustments to address what is called a fixed work station to help support the arrival of data stations and promote their activities in this country. I would like to agree primarily with what has been discussed in the discussion on the importance of considering these matters and looking forward to reviewing the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u90	Mr. President. This is quite extraordinary fun, listening to a minister reviewing what's going on. Somehow I feel like we're stretching out our hand and saying, "We're only allowed to touch the future. At that time, it is so important that we have a vision first. I'm especially celebrating the highest vision. Minister for competition. The competition, whatever you say, attracts extraordinary things and a great deal; initiative of individuals, creativity and force within companies, etc. It might not be out of the way to the highest. A minister would just go to the sixth floor and use this talk on competitive farming as well. That's another story. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister, because it's talking about energy policy and it's definitely going to come in after it, in order to have cross-cutting cooperation because we're touching the future. We need to think about this further than just the terms of the season, think about what we need to achieve political solidarity. The class and political flea, although the highest, is completely different today than it was here in years ago. Ministers, by the way, want to reduce the number of groups, which are natural thoughts that we need to discuss later. This is reality today. Then it is so important to have faith in the conversation of such extraordinary future events and to reach everyone's level. So I want to encourage the highest. A minister whom I trusted to do the work I do well. It's also remarkable to hear that it is the highest. Minister has now received a divorce on the report. I'd like to direct it to her to publish it right away as soon as I heard she was going to do and I'd be glad to, because she's something that even happened. A professional health care committee would need to address and arrange for a minister to discuss the best way to do this. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister of the entire revision work, because she named the big usertiff, so that it will build a transparency in information and communication. There have been too many suspicions over the registrations for certain important users. [[The president calls.]] As in others, we need to learn something from experience. [[The president calls.]] I encourage it to have as much transparency as possible so that the public will join us in our way of wanting to have a wide variety of corporate fleas, big users as well as others. [[The president calls.]] Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-26-29.u91	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion, and I wanted to add some of the policies and whatever. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came in on her, and I agree that she is missing. A policy is more important than some may wish to be. I think it will always affect the way professional life develops. Of course, the data sets have chosen their clients for themselves, even though we would want to see more high - tech jobs that are of greater value, we can see. The organization of data beings is also doing a particular job. I'll have them in my office when she's finished. Then I'm interested in looking at this and reading it together, on the one hand, this report that I expect to publish as soon as I've taken it into a government on Friday and then their work and in what ways this will go together and overlap so that we can share this into a useful channel. I welcome the interest of other members of Congress. Of course, it's a lot of future mice at the same time as it's happening right now. We know that this is a very rapidly growing industry, if not the fastest-growing industry in the world, so, of course, we want to take our place there. With the number of classes, I don't really want to reduce them, but I do feel that they don't necessarily have to be that many. However, there is something that is not only a matter of discussion but also of an extended period of time.
