ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u1	This meeting will be scheduled for a period of 20 minutes after the discussion on the 1st part, i.e. The council's work. Is it for members of Congress to prepare for votes?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u2	A respectable president. Yesterday, a team of workers who have worked for the last month gave off a white book on the future vision and financial policy. At first glance, there are many practical and needed suggestions for the future. It is, in fact, there. Emphasize the reduction of taxes on a financial enterprise. Few people link it to their view of how important it is to reduce interest in the Icelandic financial market, but wanting less interest and not to lower the bank tax is paradox and presumption. It is a size-separation that, in large measure, results in less growth in foreign lands. What does it have to do with specific taxes? Yes, we do not have to look far to see that taxes on financial activity in this country are far higher than in other countries, e.g. 11 times higher than in Denmark and less than eight times higher than in Norway, Sweden, Britain, and so on. The white book puts it in an essential context. A planned decrease in bank taxes will provide financial companies with a similar reduction in operating costs to a 15% decrease in the number of employees in the bank. That's equivalent to 400 points for the three banks, 400 employees. The Icelandic financial market must have the same rules and conditions as the other financial enterprises working on the common European market. Before a person starts to scream from the roof of his house about the amount of failure to reduce bank taxes, it would be good for him to look at the bigger picture but not to use the bank as an enemy of the country. Maturity is a major road to banking and explains the interest of the Icelandic bank and the Norse. The taxes play a major role in the high cost of consumers. For good reason, the proposal of this White Book was a faster reduction in specific taxes than is currently planned. However, it also emphasizes the reduction of the global government ownership of banks, and this is also necessary because a variety of holdings, as discussed in the White Book, have failed to settle and reduce risks. Now I am looking forward to the proposals, but I am also given a perfunctory discussion at the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u3	Mr. President. As the Senate knows, carbon binding is very high. Of course, it is done by expanding vegetation, repairing debauched land, or recovery of wetlands, even by subjugated land, as is now a fact. There is a well - tested way in this so - called carbon tree, where companies have been able to balance their carbon efficiency with forestry. But in all of this, there are different roles, the state is a stream of carbon binding costs, certainly. In many ways, they support, encourage, and encourage it. By looking in the long - term, however, companies, communities, members, and individuals carry the biggest weight. For an enterprise it is known that contributions are not removed from parentheses. There's no particular tax appeal. I have now proposed to the Congress's office a proposal with some business partners for a change in income tax law, so it is permitted to use as much as 0.85 percent of carbon - based revenues in vegetation without paying income tax from the budget. As you can see, companies can cooperate with Kolin, using forestry or e.g. sharing in the recovery of wetlands with relatively young wetlands. In the seven months, the size gray is low, with a total of 60 to 10 million in wetland reserve. It is similar with Sir Francis at this time, so although this will increase with in willability, it will not become a major burden on a government fund, but a tremendous benefit in climate and then, in harmony with the government's goals on non-carbonization Iceland by 2040. I hope so. Senators are pleased with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u4	President. Pirats and I made a change in budgets, which included increases in the cause of disability in order to eliminate a penny from a dollar to a dollar's impairment. The motion taken was part of a bill for delinquency of a crown in return to the loss of a dollar that has been discussed on a welfare committee. The bill holds that a set of values should be taken on January 1, 2019, but in view of the innuendo of the change in budget and that any cost will be derived from the approved bill, I suggested that a postponing of the work be delayed to January 1, 2020. This allows sufficient space in 2019 to make needed changes in financial planning and budgets to take into account the cost of the change. So yesterday, I made a suggestion to remove the bill from the welfare committee and the rest of the part made the suggestion. I presented a book I read here, by permission of the president: In the meeting, a proposal was made to handle the committee's issue of No. 54, a cent against a dollar's impairment. The majority of the Committee proposed that it was not time to withdraw the matter from a committee where there was now a meeting group on the changed social security and trade group on the shape and implementation of the services assessments that are being conducted under the Ministry of Health. However, regardless of the work being done by the Ministry, the end of this matter is not the end of the matter. Neither the consultation group nor the professional committee, now employed, have the task of removing a dollar from a dollar's savings. It is then the responsibility of the Generals to have a legal authority to establish laws and change existing laws. To illustrate that the execution of the Commission prevents the International Parliament from having its Constitutional role unsolvable. The reviews and visitors in the case are received, so there is a full prerequisite for handling the matter from a committee. President. This is a major part of keeping the less part hostage in order just not to take sides on this important matter at the Senate Hall. Such tactics are not new to me, but I am disappointed that the government under the leadership of the daughter of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, who has repeatedly promised new practices will maintain them. President. There's no new way to see it here. [[The president calls.]] A proposal for decommissionment of a cent versus a dollar should be put to sleep on a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u5	A respectable president. When you're old - fashioned, tradition and formality are important. I've wondered, since I came into the council, how did it come that at the council in 2009-2013, sometime in that time, the duties of the council members have been canceled? I've wondered if such compromises will not allow us to relax in our usual dress here at the councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u6	Respect of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u7	I think dress is very important. Of course, there are differing views on this subject. I think it's normal. In this good book, Honorable Senator, it says: ▪ It is a long tradition for formal and well - arranged clothing of members of the Parliament in the Assembly Hall, at the Assembly Hall, and for meeting committees. I think this is, for example. It was very wrong for us senators. The rule has been that men wear jackets, but more diversity has been in women's clothing. I don't think this recommendation here means that we don't wear jeans in the councilroom that I feel very inappropriate. I suggest, so that we don't all go to the Christmas cat, that we take our attention and attention to clothing in the chamber, that we come in here to see that we have respect for the history that belongs to this house and respect for the work we are doing and that we show it by our conduct and dress that we are at ease. General.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u8	A respectable president. The subject of older people, waiting lists, health, nursing homes, etc. have been a bit of a discussion lately, including to the Hall of Congress. I am one of those who have made public notice that if we are going to continue using the same methods of service to older people and to anticipate the same service as the nation grows older, we will not be able to handle the account that follows. Here we need to look ahead and think of how we change our thinking and way of life, how we approach it as a community, and as individuals to age. Recently, a science report was published by scientists at Ball State University in Indiana, U.S.A., on the effects of lifelong physical activity. It shows that people in their mid - 70's who have been moving throughout their lives have lung function and muscle structure similar to those in their 40's. More important, however, scientists come to the conclusion that a steady walk for 30 to 45 minutes a day may be sufficient to achieve significant benefits in health. This is important to human health. This means that walking or riding to work or after work can make a difference for us later in life, and this still emphasizes the importance that we as a community put all emphasis on teaching our children and grandchildren about the importance of movement, that we use all the schools to teach these important things to children and young people. Although movement may not always have a critical effect on e.g. the appearance of illness or whether we are ill long ago proves that by exercise regularly, we are better equipped to cope with illness later in life. It is a person's natural right to have an opportunity to participate in society, no matter where it may be in his life, and as a community, we need to make it easier for people to take responsibility for their health because for a long time, he or she lives in the first place. Thus we face the challenge of changing national age and health care for the 21st century.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u9	V.E.G. President. Hv. Senators. I was reading the News magazine a few days ago, and it showed that the sugar festival was right across the corner. That's why I want to discuss Christmas here, a festival so often called a festival of light and peace. I want to talk about diet and communication and people's feelings. We want everyone to be comfortable with Christmas, everybody getting satisfied and getting gifts. It is fun to keep tradition, but it is proper to develop a habit, especially in smoking, sugary soda, and other sweet foods. Studies show that taking sugar adversely affects your health, and unfortunately, sugar added to a range of foods, where low levels of sugar are needed, such as ... ina lot of soots. A study of Iceland's diet in 2010-2011 shows that obesity and overweight are becoming more common than less than 59% of people between 18 and 80 years of age are overweight and 21% are classified as obese, with a ratio of 13.1% in 2002. It's better to hold back the rest, but I guess now we've got Icelanders in the Northland all over again, and this doesn't mean, "I'm doing better." The consumption of sugary sodas has been greatly reduced, so young people who drink more than twice a week get more sugar added than advice would. Then there is communication and feeling. We all have a lot of expectations about Christmas, since we often want things to be so perfect. Hence, whether they have come into that position or not, it is equally important that we know how to put ourselves in the place of others and try to do so and show compassion for those who are less fortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u10	A respectable president. Last week, I was rather critical of a talk that appeared that even appeared. in the speech of a man. paritaprevir Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, The above - mentioned talk was a tasteful of the agreement that Iceland wrote with a blessing on how the nations of the world can come together on one of the larger and larger issues of the day, passengers, i.e. People who move from country to country for one reason or another. Yesterday, the same question asked. The governor's senator. Prime Ministers are excellent questions about an agreement. First, I want to thank you to the highest. The prime minister for clear answers, but they should make clear about the agreement and calm any anxiety now heard so widely in the community. Yet, I also want to thank you. paritaprevir This time, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for an important point in his inquiry, which was about the discussion itself. If the affairs of immigrants and, in particular, refugees and refugees are not open, out loud, and honest property of extremes, they are not open - minded. While it is a special danger when it is mixed with patriotism, it is the product of a poisonous and powerful cocktail that has caused untold damage to human society throughout the ages, not just in the early 20th century, although from there we receive the most famous examples. People have always been afraid of foreigners, especially when they see much social change along with their growing numbers. There is something that we need to be able to discuss openly. Now it's time for me to receive a lot of messages of an agreement that will exceptionally contain similar incorrect entries as presented speech. Although I am obligated, in every way, to correct the incorrectities, I still want to say the same thing. A senator's danger is that when people experience silence in a conversation about foreigners, they play in the hands of extremes. That discussion involves many unpleasant but important issues, such as religion, tradition, customs, culture, and national law. I fully declare myself ready to discuss these matters openly, honestly, and honestly, over and over. The difference is unnecessary, fact and logic. Darkness is nothing but lack of light. Light triumphs over darkness.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u11	A respectable president. V.E.G. In the past year, the secretary of finance said that older citizens'financial resources and disability had greatly increased. He also said that no one could support tax returns. The independent party always talks about the need to lower the taxes. I'm sure every senator in this room is willing to support bringing the time machine back to 1988 when pensions and low wages were taxless. It is strange to insist that at the same time, the rapid rise of older cities and the wantonness of their commercial resources is in order. A raise to be set up next New Year's Eve is an entire 3.6%. This is not enough to boost the level of money. This is not even enough to keep up with rising prices and others that have died. The right thing would be, and has been repeated here, to increase this percentage by 9.6%. The pay slip during this period is 6%, and the law clearly states that the pay slip is to be followed. Then we can point out that there are 113,000 hens of disability. A pension fund yields 20,000 bucks. 93,000K. Of these are taxes and taxes. At the same time, we are talking about the law-enforced source that is being kidnapped by the least of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u12	A respectable president. I would like to discuss only what our contributions to development can have a powerful influence, and for many, to have access to it for granted. In just five years, 67,000 people in six regions of the Sambesia Company in Mozambique have access to clean water, and 60,000 students at 145 schools have access to clean water and improved toilet facilities through Icelandic development cooperation. Iceland has funded large amounts of water and toilet projects in Mozambique since 2014 and keeps UNICEF around the project in cooperation with the Sambeia authorities. This is an extremely important health issue, but each year some 37,000 people die in Mozambique because of a lack of clean water and no toilet facilities. In this poorest state of Mozambique, nearly 5 million people live and only 1/3 have access to clean water and nearly 90% do not have access to adequate toilet facilities. The Sambesia contains approximately Half of the children with severe growth retardation due to malnutrition and lack of clean water and sanitation. Iceland's support results in the building of several watermails in the Pebane region, which are responsible for the fact that children and women who do not care for water supply no longer have to walk two to three miles [3 km] each day to draw water from contaminated river. This has a positive effect on the health of everyone in the village, especially the children. A similar story can be said in the Buikwe region of Uganda, where some 50,000 people will have access to clean water, untamed water, when another stage of Iceland's water project in the province ends next year. Recently, Ramette's Unnur Orradóttir, the Icelander of Kampala, signed a contract with Water Mission Uganda for continued cooperation. By the end of that phase, some 25 water supply for the European Development Fund will have been built to distribute water in over 100 watermails in nearly 40 fishing villages along the coast of Victoria's lakes. In addition, 150 toilet buildings are being built for public use in the same villages, something that Iceland and I would probably like to have access to. I have to help people to find the gift of truth.is at UNICEF, where we can buy vital provisions for needy children.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u13	A respectable president. The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights was 70 years old yesterday. Iceland's standard of human rights is very good, but unfortunately, it's not too many places around the world. One group that has had such limited human rights as refugees and passengers. The United Nations has in its final year been working on a resolution on the affairs of refugees and passengers. In view of the growing number of refugees and refugees, the purpose of this agreement is to ensure the human rights of these people and to improve the response of the international community to the migration of both refugees and passengers. Surely we can all agree with its importance. Advertising the common responsibility of the international community in the affairs of these people is emphasized by the obligation of Member States to protect refugees, to support the countries that host a large number of refugees, as well as to support the countries that face refugees. The agreements are not legally binding, but they create a cohesive basis for the implementation of the commitments adopted in the New York declaration. They are also important for the progress of world goals. In Iceland, we enjoy a good legal environment when it comes to human rights, both the people here and the people who come here for different reasons. Although we can no doubt improve much further in this regard, these fine statements by the United Nations are not designed to force Iceland into this, but it is always the decision of the ideal government of Iceland to change that. The statement currently adopted in Marrakes does not mean that Iceland has to change the laws or methods we have so far used. The United Nations Declaration of Human Rights states: "All are born free and equal in respect and rights to others. All are endowed with reason and conscience, and must act toward one another in a brotherly manner. Human rights are not relative. They're absolute. By putting human rights first, freedom, and equality on earth, we are at the same time promoting world peace and stability. [[The president calls.]] On that occasion, we must always be ready to take. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u14	A respectable president. I'm still trying to swallow the problem I've felt after I saw this stated great budget that in no way increases the money or ability of older citizens, disability, and those whose feet are in the community, not about a dollar. So to support you, let me refer to an article that I have repeatedly referred to, page 69. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, which reads clearly: social security, as well as pay Sixty-three. and sums of money. 22nd , let's change annually according to the budget Number one: That's exactly what was being done in the budget, it was being changed, as was 69 C.E. The social security laws, only legal. It was just a simple index correction, which was also wrong because the second paragraph of this article says: Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the prices of the index price. Would there have been higher today, a respected president, a pay development in the country of 2018, or an index of consumer prices? The pay grade. There was a total of 6%. But it's not just that it's the Christmas gift this year about these budgets doing nothing to improve the interests of those in the palaces of their feet here but now the latest thing to do is to go through the council on some light - speed taxation for everyone. What are the perks? Those who can't afford salt. Now they're to be left at home and never to get out of the city because it's going to be too hard for them. In fact, it is a shame to see how we secretly and clearly attack those who should be least in the community today and this Christmas gift, that this is coming into the council now on top of everything else, is totally beyond my understanding and is now quite good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u15	A respectable president. Yesterday, the highest was reminded. Prime Minister, we realize that it has been 70 years since the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights was signed. The second world war had just ended, and the world wanted to do better. Her main motivation was Eleanor Roosevelt, a politician and the First Lady of the United States. She was a promoter of the United Nations Organization, and she was also a representative of the U.S. commission. Within the United Nations, she fought for the rights and rights of refugees who were driven from their homes during the war. Yeah, there's another sound coming from the White House now. The Declaration of Human Rights describes goals and is not legally binding. It calls for human rights, which everyone has equal claim, regardless of race, variety, sex, language, religion, beliefs, etc. The United Nations is now working on two human rights licenses involving refugees and on the other hand dealing with passengers. We are so lucky here in Iceland that governments can participate in and accept such declarations, comparing them to the declared policies of the present government, and in their heart much of the nation can sign up human rights. So how sad it is to listen to the language presented here on the Central Party! He feeds on suspicion, hostility, and, quite frankly, presumptuousness. Now let the polls blow into their minds, talking to votes that are fluttering, it is probably no matter where good comes from. I want to go so far as to call it a spade. With the presence of UN approval of refugees, we participate in international human rights infrastructure and can follow our own independent laws and policies in the affairs of immigrants. As for the criticism that turns to a discussion of these matters, it is cool or foggy, and the government does not want to discuss these matters, I would like to say that we can view this as the very foundation on which the discussion is to be based.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u16	A respectable president. I've been given a chance to sit on a Senate class for a few days. I think it's fun, and not least, to get the chance to come here as an agent of older people because I think I have any business to do with you. A team was formed on the affairs of older citizens last spring. Unfortunately, this group has not yet returned any results. Instead, we have proposals that include a 3.6% increase in pensions from social security. The people who have little or nothing now get $239,500. ... fromPrivacy; and then there's a tax charge back. This is the amount that is far below the stratosphere. It is the pension of old age for those who live in poverty, sickness, isolation, and emptiness. Now I'm not here to argue or to be ashamed because I think that the majority of you here at the Council are well pleased, and I agree that you need to take over and invite older citizens to a quality of life and a carefree life night. The oldest generation must not, nor should be left behind. Dear senators and women. I come into this good old platform to challenge you to preserve your quality of life and to care for the people who have come to their age. Although I myself have reached old age and old age, my business here at the Senate Hall is the only thing, wherever you stand, to unite that the elderly will live and die with dignity. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u17	Mr. President. It's often that you're thrown to your hands in a hurry here at the council, especially before the Senate hearing, but it's not often that you see a procedure as it seems to be intended for a transport plan. Here we are being born in these spoken words of something that cannot be called a new transport plan, a road program that would likely be a reason for sending back information in view of the magnitude of the changes involved. But no, it's not supposed to happen, it's supposed to be done in a great hurry. In fact, it is difficult to show the smaller part exactly what is involved, since it is not ready. Still, they should be prepared to complete a discussion and a vote on this matter before the weekend. This refers to tens of millions of projects a year. It is not the smallest attempt made to evaluate e.g. National interest as indicated, e.g. ... intheconsistencies of public finances law. Really, finding out exactly what to do or how to do is extremely little. It seems to me like this: the southwestern corner, the capital area, gets nothing unless they pay extra for it by road expenses. It should also be used to finance projects elsewhere in the country. This has been introduced by the same group that opposed the idea of raising carbon pay by 1,200 billion. K. This year, and here is a list of 75 billion who will be financed over the next few years. I think it's about a minimum of 40 times the rise that was set for the carbon pay back. The twin skin is now quite handsome in this. Of course, these are not acceptable practices. It's an ass-book of tens of millions of projects. The Congress should show itself the respect that it takes a little more time to mold these ideas to the end. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u18	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss the transport program that is now being transformed into a rather new transport program, since this is a political arrangement that has been in progress. 71 members, local communities and rural communities have already made comments, all members of a case, and the committees are making up a new council agreement on how to get paid. So they will not go back around and ask to do it professionally: What do people think about these currency ideas? That's what the major part doesn't seem to be doing. Then let's watch how this could play out. If the more part decides not to do so, everyone will know that it's an extremely unscrupulous job, and no one will be able to accept this kind of work. The country will not accept this kind of work. But the greater part could do so with five, forcing the case out of the committee. At that time, the chairman of the General Assembly remains with him. If he puts it on a schedule, so badly worked against the nation that doesn't like these charges, it's just a wartrap into the council in final meters. What are some of the less important things to do than say, "We can't allow this to happen? " So, what do we have? All we have is our authority to speak in the language. Of course, we have to talk about it and wait for reports from rurals, stakeholders, and people in the country to discuss this. Of course, we have to wait and talk until we get that information. We'd be sorry if we let this council-sense proposal inside the Senate arrangement in final metres without the national community being allowed to say what it is and the relevant ones. It is fundamental to the fact that everyone has the right to make their own decision and that they are being violated here if you are going to take this walk. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u19	Mr. President. We vote for the hunting bill, the bill that the government and the management sector know will catalyze the bookwork and tax collections of integrated outputs, but still prefers to go on, as the government and the administrative sector know that the state's funds will be caused by about Four billion dollars in income next year and, as the government knows, could have worked considerably better with the smaller parts. There was no need to force it on this occasion, but it will, of course, be at the hands of the greater part of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u20	Mr. President. We're going to vote for three-year-old hunting fees. This is an extension of real-time hunting fees and guarantees the nation's fair resource use of the nation's common resource. We are also meeting up with medium and small productions by strengthening the cost - raise level, thus reducing the development of resources and the development of the marine settlements. The case has been well discussed in the job board by a number of guests, and it has been discussed. V.E.G. A top - wide water - out minister has studied the language throughout the country. So I think we've come to a good place to pay the fishing fees that are, I think, a great improvement from the fishing fees that have been where we're changing and getting the governor to work best. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u21	Mr. President. This bill agrees with a very peculiar and even shocking view of the concept of justice. At the same time as we're looking at groups that have had a hard and difficult time, and they had expectations for some compensation to a budget, which was so withdrawn because of the failure of the budgets when the Icelandic sum of thrills, we pay a vote for a bill where we will certainly reduce the budget of companies who live on business problems, but also companies who have been paying so much money in the past few years and in the past year that we can get the money. I won't agree to these hunting fees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u22	Mr. President. The government is covering its main struggle. This is where she falls her mask. The government was made backward with a fall in spring fishing fees, but it moved them back this fall and drive them through in a baloney political dispute. The slightest attempt is not made to settle the matter. Here you can see the political priorities of the governments. Here, fishing costs are dropped by 4 billion at the same time and there is no way to finance the growth of senior citizens, at the same time as it is not possible to finance the road system by any means, as we see in a discussion at the council today, while the debates in financial bill are being cut down in many areas in the welfare system. This is the masked special care of these government groups. I will say no to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u23	A respectable president. We vote for hunting fees. I completely disagree with the last speaker that we have not met fully on this matter. We had 13 meetings, 100 guests came before the committee, and the discussion was much, talked to everyone, and the memory was given all the opportunities that were needed. No changes were made in the committee, and it was suggested that he did not make any comments on this. I say we're passing a conclusion that's cool. The tents are high in view of the current article, but as the chairman of the Committee mentioned earlier, they are trying to cope with the situation, to give discounts that are greatly elevated from the last law. I'll say yes to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u24	Mr. President. We are now seeing the outcome of a case involving an important nation's industry, with regard to the whole country. It is not good when major issues are handled in a large way. The scheme has at least one not conducted in the General Assembly with all groups sitting there. This is particularly tragic because in their policy lists, most members of a council are joint strands that could have been added so much better to one another and to a greater degree of reconciliation. It is boring and serious that governments do not attempt to achieve this agreement that is so important to all of us, especially the article itself, and such as the people of the land. [[The president calls.]] I can't support this bill of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u25	V.E.G. President. Emphasis in the bill for collections of hunting fees is found in the new source of currency based on delivery. The rate of hunting per 33% currency per year. Work continues at a vacation market and meets smaller deforestations in many parts of the country. This should be done on calendar wounds, management changes, decisions are drawn closer to time and reduced time spent in the management of information. The internal world is in accordance with time, with the results of this article and the enterprises throughout the country. All of this is involved in the collection of fishing fees that have had high sound bases over the years and that it realized that work is based, among other things, on the basis of work. on the demand and effort to make more peace with the fund of hunting fees. I'm on this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u26	A respectable president. The Treaty states that a reexamination of the fish price laws requires that the primary objective of ensuring the nation's righteous share of the resource's profit. I wondered what the nation's righteous part is in this bill, he's at least in the notes listed. The bill specifically shows that the cost of hunting should be met by the State's research costs. Here we have an abundance of ocean research ships of $3 billion that would easily be financed by unchanged fishing costs. These two are very interesting. The righteous part of the nation is lower than if the situation remained stable and we would have a marine research ship if the situation remained unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u27	A respectable president. This refers to the survival of the deportation. Of course, we need to take good care of her, but the fact is that in the year 2018 the cost has fallen enormously. We're looking up at 20% on export, i.e. 20% increase and further growth of exporting. So I say, isn't there any reason to wait and stay and see where we're going, whether we're coming or going? Since 2010, the cost has probably gone up to 80 billion. On average, there are about 9 billion each year making money from the fishing road. Whatever they say, we're about 4.3 billion dollars in front of our noses. The fact is that some 11 billion were paid into the state fund last year from the sea resource. Now they will be 7. We could do a lot of things, a respectable president, with that four billion bucks. If the government might have looked a little in the rearview mirror and set priorities for those most in need.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u28	A respectable president. This is a remedy for obvious evils in current and current collections of hunting fees. We're not lowering fishing fees. The cash ratio is unchanged. The price is being brought up for real time, so the production pays at any time that comes from the end of the day. The price is not being lowered. And it's also not being discussed or voting on the fishing system itself. It's totally incomprehensible to me that, in spite of all the other views men may have on the fishing system in Iceland, they must not correct what's obviously gone. Of course, I will support this progress project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u29	Mr. President. No, there is not a fair drop from their resources. On the contrary, the nation's resources are being cut off even more fairly. The government of the left green, forward, and independent party decides to do this at the same time as the management environment of a successful growth process, at the same time, and to add an increased tax burden in the form of roads to the public, at the same time as it is not possible to have the necessary compensation for older citizens and for disability. Mr. President. That's 4 billion bucks. Christmas gift to the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, at the expense of all the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u30	Mr. President. It is most clever to listen to this presentation, in view of the fact that most people, if not all classes, have spoken of the idea that hunting costs should reflect their appearance, that if not all classes of the council, representatives of the council have spoken, it is reasonable to believe that the application is closer than ever before. And this is exactly what they're doing, moving the cloth around in time and aiming it for good. That's what's been over at 13 meetings in a dog. A job board and a number of visitors are spoken as if it were an unexpected idea that was run through. I'm gonna take this opportunity to thank you. A professional committee and its chairman for handling this matter accurately and carefully. We've got a 33% cut-off rate plus an additional burden on ocean fish. When the yield gets better, it will return to higher fishing costs, and when the yield gets worse, it will return to lower fishing costs. This is actually a basic idea that I thought was a reasonable agreement for the Generals after observing this discussion since 2012 when we first set the special fishing fee. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I believe this is a big step toward progress and that good work has been done, both by the minister and by the professional authority of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u31	A respectable president. We're about to vote for the hunting fees. This bill is based on the government's declaration of policy, which says that a review of the legislation on fishing costs would require the primary objective of ensuring a righteous share of the resource and taking into account the survival of the enterprises. The data used are drawn closer in time, and the source of the hunting fees is expected to reflect better results, and the Haiden News has to be stopped. The data to be proposed are now expected to be based on data from the head of the state tax and the company's tax returns. It has been said that we are lowering the fishing costs and that the rise of the fishing industry is increasing. Then we may also agree that this is the case, so it may result in bringing in higher fishing fees for the State, won't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u32	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to see that this matter is coming to an end and in good order, although it is not in harmony. At times, the situation is so intense that they cannot be left alone during the council. This is the case that appeared in September. It was recommended then. Yet it is spoken here as if there were no consultation. Men who oppose the case say that the State will be of righteous standing but in the case of those who speak in that way are very clear that they are going to do a certain number of crowns that have nothing to do with the survival of the structure. It's just that there's supposed to be some piece that's supposed to be paid off all the time. There will never be any reconciliation. It is reasonable and reasonable to think that the price reflects the survival of this article, and with these laws, the price will do so better than we do today because the price reflects a more real time. The best criteria for whether this case is a good case and for progress compared with existing laws and rules will be: Will anyone think of returning to the old system? The answer is obvious: No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u33	A respectable president. We voted for hunting costs, not the fishing system, as most of the suggestions in my section were about 2. Around the world, a fishing system that has created us with our seabeds that it is in the lead. The debate in Iceland since 2010/2011 has been about how much money we can put on the seabed while most of the other countries, even large sea streets like Norway, are about how much money we have to pay on the fishing road. I have been in this discussion since the beginning. I presented the bill that was out of date in my opinion when I presented it. However, we needed information to make such a statement in real times. I'm telling you, the bill we're about to agree with here, and I encourage everyone to do it, is a progressive step. That's wise. It'll take the rest. We need to have competitive development around the country. The largest price is paid, over 80% of the country's population. Many of the companies there are unable to tolerate a higher price. [[The president calls.]] Here we can continue to increase the competitiveness of the nation, its development, and the inhabited earth. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u34	Mr. President. I am glad that we have come to the point of settling the matter in a way that has led to the conclusion that we can be happy about. I'll bet you I wouldn't have wanted to go any further in lowering those curses. I'm going to remind you, and I drew it up in a discussion on both the budget and on this matter that rural areas in the Northwestern district have been very careful and thorough in the way of the development of marine resources within the district. I'd like to remind you about this vote and give you the highest power. Sea diva minister and what. The head of the professional road committee to pay attention to their calculations. I'm afraid of what's going on in my district, of how these charges pay on important companies for the settlement. We have every reason to stay awake, but this is a good stage, and I'm celebrating it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u35	A respectable president. The bill that we vote for votes on the corners of many ills, of collections at hunting costs, and that's why I'll be able to support it. There's no way anyone can mess with what collects an extra taxation on this industry, but I think we're on the right track about the arrangement. The large indiscriminate remains that the price is too high. The interests of several large fishing companies may well be improving, but all the hundreds of small and medium-sized sea plants that make it money by their activities in the areas of the country are not too successful. Therefore, we need to monitor the effects of this high price, so that money cannot be added to the Icelandic nation by the resource, because a powerful fishing route produces the greatest profit. Let's be clear. The fishing costs are not being lowered, no matter how this is calculated. If this were calculated after the cost of fishing and processing for 2017, next year's fishing would be 2.5 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u36	Mr. President. During the last Thursday, two court decisions fell into the Supreme Court, which take account of the government's lawsuit in the fishing talk that has taken place here. There was already strong evidence for the continuation of the case on the basis of a positive effect of gang change on exports, in the absence of consultation with the government opposition, and in the reduction of the health and welfare funds from the Member States between financial discussions. Much has been discussed, unfortunately, for the deaf ears of the government. Now these judgments have been added to the sauerve and the evidence there for procrastination is no less than the previous evidence. I'd also like to mention that we still have the opportunity to add to the law the sharpening of the nation's property rights, sharpening that it is the people of the country that owns this resource. It is still an opportunity to add to the law time binding on the warrants given by a factory, at 20 to 25 years of age, as most members of the council have recommended at one time or another. [[The president calls.]] It is still an opportunity to fix these nudities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u37	Mr. President. It worries me and disappoints me how some councilmen here, whom I thought had understanding and insight into professional life, talk about hunting costs, that they are being lowered, when the fact is, for example, a fact. Because in 2017 the publication of Icelandic fishing dropped by 79%. In accordance with current adjusted fishing fees, this year will be wiped out. There would never be a collection of fishing fees based on this crumbling year 2017, which would have led to an undiscovered total of more than 2 billion fishing fees. On the contrary, it is taking a wise step here, moving the soiling of the enterprises into real time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u38	Mr. President. 33%. Where did that number come from? Who decided? And why? Why didn't a conversation and a review of how much money money money money was to be given to the nation? Despite the obvious dangers involved, why is the fishing industry taken out of the price of fishing fee? The discussion and the discussion on these issues could have started with these questions: Who should be the share of the nation's resources? We were never allowed to participate in such a conversation. It was decided for us. This is the lack of consultation we're complaining about. And it's no wonder that you assume from this that the government gave itself some particular number that she wanted in hunting fees and then calculated back from that, because there have been no meaningful explanations on this percentage. [[The president calls.]] Our examination of it was not made before this was submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u39	Mr. President. It is a measure of folly to listen especially to members of the Independence Party talking about the terrible year of 2017 and how bad that article had been, and it's good that it doesn't come to pass. It is good to remember that this article went through a long strike at the time. I'll think about it. Congress members must agree with me that it is not the State's job to pay the loss of jobs by paying taxes, much less fishing costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u40	What about income tax?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u41	The lack of cooperation in this matter remains. The government set out with this methodology alone. This is not even calculated next year, since there is a combination for the next year and then based on faulty scales, many of which are estimated sizes and numbers into the future. This is what the government boasts and fears, at the same time the simplest of the situation, to let the market rule, to allow the executives to provide for these fishing grounds, and thus to impose their own prices. Of course, such drastic changes are not to be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u42	A respectable president. When I was many years ago reading about Icelandic literature at the University of Iceland, there was one concept common, it was little stories. We read a lot of little stories. They were usually dealing with uniqueness that no one was nice to, and they drove from place to place, with nothing and nothing. It was a very tragic story, but I must say, it wasn't as pathetic as the little story you're going to hear in the World Congress about how we're doing it and how we're doing it with these pathetic little little girls and the driving of a single person in Iceland. In this regard, it is all right to recall that last year the cost was $23 billion. [[Up front.]] They say we're not lowering hunting costs here. Hunting costs may not be being lowered. However, action is being taken that will reduce hunting costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u43	A respectable president. First of all, I'd like to thank a job board for a very good job, and her manager especially for the task being done by the council to do in a reasonably good way, in my opinion. This is called for information and asked for. That, because the currency is unchanged, where did this 33% come from? If you read the current law, par. 9. the current fishing bill, is the calculus of the bottom feeder 33% of the currency, for the up-watering fish 33% of the currency. Let's just read it, and the harmony will be in what's presented here. This case is for great improvement. It is being moved closer in time so that it reflects the contents of the article better than they have so far. This may lead to a reduction in hunting costs. This will reflect the worse outcome of the article. I really hope that fishing costs will increase because it will show that this basic work is better off than it has ever done so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u44	Mr. President. I think there's something I need to be clear about. The new law is about to remove the strike wound of 2017. I am not surprised at the fact that people speak in that way. Similarly, I am surprised to learn that when the facts are that the fishing industry has paid less money in profit than other sectors, 21% versus 31% in 2010-2016. These are the facts. They're huge payments on the fishing road. He is more moderate than others when it comes to earning money. This should be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u45	A respectable president. A 33% decrease or taxation of the fishing industry and the richest among the richest, the wealthiest, is making the most money. Let's say this in the context of 73% to more than 100% reduction in the pension pay of those who need it most. Is that fair? I say no. We're supposed to turn this whole thing around. Let's test the richest and help the others to get 33%. I'm thinking pensioners today would like 33%.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u46	Mr. President. It has been said here that the matter remains settled and settled. The peace is at least not in this room, I think it's obvious. I repeat again and again that it is tragic that people do not put forth more effort to try to achieve the peace that I believe would be quite possible if they took the time. There is also something odd in the discussion. It is claimed that the costs are only being shifted in time, but then other management men will step up and say: Unfortunately, it has not been enough to reduce the price of hunting. I can't figure it out. Am I moving them in more time or taking them down? [[Up front.]] [[Foreground on: postpartum.]] Then there's some kind of misunderstanding. Members of the management team who made it clear and clear: The fishing costs are not far enough to be lowered. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u47	A respectable president. Just to appeal, since it was such a terrible year last year at the plant, Icelandic fishing companies paid out more money in 2017 than they've ever paid before. In all, the owners of the fishing industry received 14.5 billion dollars. paid on return in the previous year for the performance of the previous year, and, at the end, by President's permission: Since 2010, the cost of fishing has been $18.3 billion for the owners of their owners. Since collapse, the same business's financial status has improved by $33 billion, with some $14 billion improved during this terrible and miserable year. You ask yourself: " When should I look inside and examine, e.g. that the value of export has increased by 20% in 2018? How does a defender argue that his actions are worth fighting for? It's wrong, and as usual, your priorities are completely standing on your head.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u48	A respectable president. This is an adjustment from a smaller part of the process of maintaining a materialistic standard in the calculation of the fishing fees next year, while efforts will be made to achieve greater peace on the subject. In view of what has been repeated in this matter, it is just such a joy to see that this year's quality in the fishing industry is greatly improved when the next year's fishing costs are paid. So there is nothing to fear in the publication of this article, that it is not under the unchanged account structure. Therefore, we suggest that it be maintained in the next year and that the time spent in an effort to achieve a greater degree of reconciliation in the council hall in order to establish stability for this article in the long term, so that this is not a year's accounting strategy for hunting costs. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u49	Mr. President. We'll discuss the Union's resolutions, the Revolutions, the Pirata and the Gangs. Although the administrative body wants to mean something else, serious material comments were made on the subject, both from government opposition and especially in the many comments on the subject. It is incorrect that the share of the resource involves the same condition and suggests that it is normal. Weighing the profits of the fish industry into the fishing fee's decision, we do not allow ourselves to be pressured into developing a temptation to bring profits into the process and thus affect the reduction of the fishing costs. Then the fixed cost is inaccurate, to mention just one thing. So we invite these existing adjustments to be accepted and we certainly do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u50	Mr. President. With this suggestion, we give the council an opportunity to review various problems we have called attention to at the Senate Hall and to give us the opportunity to correct them. We are also extending approximately to the government. 4 billion people to deal with the various problems that she has had to postpone because of some lack of money or want to earn money so far. And that's where you could even. Consider why this process has begun to take the process out of integrated outputs, something that has not been clearly explained. I hope it can be the highest. The minister of the marine road and agricultural industry came up here and pointed out more literature in that case, possibly to explain where that change came from because the only thing I find in the bill's report on this is one of the most lame pink laundry I've ever seen in my life. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u51	Mr. President. I hope we have made it clear that we are in opposition to the government bill. We brought this adjustment into a fleet with our comrades in the Gang of the People, the United States and the Pirates. Here is a clear criticism of the debate that this matter is being won in the greatest agreement with a professional committee and that it has both a reviewler agreed on by the committee. On the contrary, some material comments were made that include: The basis for the requirement for a change so that the balance will be determined for one year, that this will be extended unchanged, and that there will be time to resolve matters, answer these criticisms, and place more work in material calculations at the cost of deduction before paying the fee. Most important, I again mention a recent court of Supreme Court that overturns certain ideas and breaks the argument that hunting is not to be discussed along with the fishing regime. [[The president calls.]] It's a physical marriage, and it's perfectly natural to have this conversation because what's under it is the national property rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u52	A respectable president. I am so disappointed to see it. Government groups should fight to bring hunting costs closer in time and to make them off - limits, as I thought would be a solidarity after observing these matters in recent years. I am even more disappointed at what happened. European Commission and its members consider no reason to react specifically to the problems of SMEs. Here is a direct suggestion for the change that more things do. The employment committee agreed to meet this delicate category specifically, to be put aside, and to pay the same price. I'm just a little surprised to see a panel of voters where a lot of these companies are working badly, how will they explain to them that it just doesn't have to be taken into account SMEs? I'm gonna say no to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u53	Mr. President. Just now, a final attempt was made to make more peace with this important matter. Not to be expected to bring up another conversation, but not in the spirit of that government. Clearly, this situation cannot stand waiting. Hunting costs are being lowered. Some directors would have liked to lower them more. I say, it's not a good thing, it would've endured waiting. Even if the case had been delayed for a year and was won better, it would not have reached a better outcome for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u54	Mr. President. I'm just going up to answer the wrong thing that was thrown into the hall, that this case was about meeting the worsening results of small and medium-sized preparations. There has been no evidence for that, and in fact, it has been the highest. On the contrary, a High Priest stood here in the Assembly Hall and plainly said that he has no such evidence. The fact is, there are well - fired and poorly fired fishing companies of all sizes and types. However, trying to deceive a world of Congress by claiming that this is an urgent need to create a special reference party for smaller productions because their recovery is so much worse than the results of larger designs - the claim is simply false, and there are no countless data to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u55	A respectable president. Here we are changing the tools we have and using to ensure a fair share in the use of their common resources. They're moving it closer in time. It's being unplugged. It's well and very close to how they have been spoken about that language in politics in the past few years, although some people now speak differently. I am very pleased with the solidarity that was achieved in the majority of the years. Employment committees to meet SMEs in particular. So when the business is smaller, it's 2 billion. A. K., for example, is 2.4 million. K., enormously important in business, the amount of money that is of little or no importance to larger companies. So this is especially to meet sensitive companies in many parts of the country. I am so happy that we have managed to achieve that law. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u56	Mr. President. That's the end of this case. There could have been a better conversation and consultation. Hv. In the wake of this, the senators come up after one another and display pride in a number of meetings and many visitors who were involved in the matter. This is true, and we appreciate them'appreciation for coming to and discussing this matter with us, all the guests who came before the committee, but what is important in consultation is listening and having some sense of response, and perhaps starting with a question where to go. It should be held that the people were not asked how much they wanted from their resources. I don't know if sailors were asked if they liked the processing of the industry from the stock market of integrated fishing projects. When comments on this were made, I could see that the answer was no more than that nothing was heard. Such listening requires consultation, and it did not take place in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u57	President. In my opinion, this is a response to a problem that has occurred because of the greeting of the user - controlled personal assistance. It would be best to ensure that everyone's access to NPA services, thus ensuring a personal life before opening up the person into an institutional facility, which is most appropriate for the age group to be accessed. By 19. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people is an obligation to ensure a life of self - interest for the disabled. This bill agrees with me is a step back into the battle between disabled people, so I don't support them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u58	Mr. President. There are positive things in this bill. I want to come up here and call attention to this as a peculiar time point now, to stand here and discuss this matter, to agree with day-to-day nurses to those under 67 years of age, if needed for health, at the same time as there is a huge need for nurses to build up, at the same time as a new budget of some 1 billion subsections of nursing care. It would be reasonable to assume that there are half a billion clean cuts, but a half billion is thought to be a cutoff between a budget. I worry that if this happens to be approved, it will have an impact on the number of elderly people and due to health problems due to age wait for nurses. I would have wanted to hear about this subject in the big movie. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u59	Mr. President. It has not been so long since this council approved the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. Sadly, though, we are far too short in the legalization of this important agreement. I'm looking at this strategy, this change, as a comeback in the legalization of this important deal. For this reason, I simply insist that at the same time as the General Assembly agreed to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People, they also intended to accept an Annex Book to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Infirm People, which would give disabled persons the opportunity to consult a specialist if their rights were violated according to the contract. It hasn't been done yet. At any rate, let's make it possible for disabled persons to submit to this committee whether these legislation and other legislation, which are not in harmony with the UN Convention on the Rights of Infirm People, are really that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u60	Mr. President. Today we vote on whether those under 67 years of age, if they themselves wish, can get service in the locals and in the days. Thus, there is no setback or force for force. Rather, we are making room room room room room room room room room room room room room provision. This will never be a general strategy. The council has already declared its stand on the NPA law that we agreed on last spring. The change, however, is needed to cope with the problems of a relatively small group that truly needs service.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u61	A respectable president. I'm celebrating the bill we're now voting on because it's increasing flexibility in the system, thus increasing the results. In that case, each person's situation can be dealt with according to his individual interests. It is important for us, if we keep it in mind when we discuss these systems, that we play the most social resources together, so that we can offer options and circumstances for each one who is most suitable for them. Therefore, I welcome this bill and, of course, will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u62	A respectable president. This little bill, which may not be too much of a bill, is an important statement. It suggests that individuals less than 67 years of age will be authorized to apply for daylight and residence. In fact, the law of a nation is being legally established for a long time. As far as it goes, this change is natural and necessary. However, governments continue to preach unsettled ideas and resources instead of returning to the magazine and working hard for a greater variety of opportunities and support, both for older people and for those with disability. It is necessary to meet each individual's needs in a much more progressive way. But this bill doesn't. There's nothing more than a policy. It's a stone-infested organization that doesn't work any more. It doesn't work for a new time, it doesn't work for a new generation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u63	A respectable president. We're talking about room space for young people. There is no limit to how young people could enter it. We can ask ourselves: " If we were in that situation, would we want to stay in a nursing home for the elderly when we are under 67 years of age? The answer is: No. That is why we have to make sure that no one goes in there forced because the danger is that the small rural communities can take advantage of this. That's why we have to say no to this, and we have to find other options. This situation should not be offered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u64	A respectable president. I only came into this discussion last night and then looked at her with the eyeglasses of a local woman. It's just like that, I know where I come from, where I come from, that there are often no alternative options, except to move a cripple, but to the people who have to go into a home. Of course, all of us want younger ones to have a choice other than what is available. But for scattered areas like Iceland, we don't even have the human resources to do things, either at home for the local community or for the user - controlled personal assistance, so we also need to watch this whole thing. It is not just those who are severely disabled; it may be those who are not able to live at home but who need daily help. Well, then maybe it's the only option. I think it's a little past it as a little bit. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Þór Gunnarsson came in earlier, that this is a choice. [[The president calls.]] This is an additional choice of what you have. All of us would want young people to stay where they were best suited and, of course, we are going there. But let us not forget that rural society is in different shapes, and all of us want to be closer to our people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u65	A respectable president. I need to express some concern that we're here at 2nd. and votes are still so misunderstandings about what it is all about. That well - informed, well - meaning senators claim that this is a setback and that we do not face the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment. I'm pretty shocked, I have to say quite honestly, because this is a way of making things right for a certain project that has been going on. There are other options being made to make sure they are actually available. No one will be placed in such a room. We are talking about a person's ability to ask for it if that is the opinion of those who know best to fit that service. It is such flexibility that we must have in a society that expects everyone to receive the proper service in which that service is most appropriate. [[The president calls.]] This is my opinion of progress, not a comeback. Wait a minute. Councilmen think of the will behind this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u66	Mr. President. There has been a view that even in this country there are no alternative options for disabled persons to go to a place of residence. I wondered what kind of free choice lies in having the only means of settling into a living room for the elderly and what sort of choice that would be if the person wanted to remain in his area. The UN Treaty on the rights of disabled people also makes it very clear that people on the basis of their homes are not to be discriminated against and, including, what kind of service they have to perform, and because they have the right to live independent lives. Freedom of choice, high regard for the disabled. I respect that at the highest. The minister of health that the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people should not exceed boundaries, but we disagree on these topics. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I would like to encourage the government and the council as much as possible to accept this optional publication. There we receive a specialist committee that can determine which one of us is right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u67	A respectable president. Here we are going to vote on the bill with the long name from the social and equal minister. The objective of the bill is also. to reduce the impact on the processing of pension rights in those who temporarily disappear from a labour market and use their right to pay off the employment-free insurance fund for loss of employment, birth holiday reserves or state funds for the care of long - suffering and severely disabled children, or organ transplant. It is necessary to respond to the earlier agreement of the European Union and the European Union by increasing in accordance with the agreement of the proportion of pay as labour market-based forwards is aimed at paying for legal remuneration in a pension fund. The Commission, therefore, specifically points to the secretary of finance to speed up the review of total legislation on the payment of pension funds and the General Pension Act.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u68	President. I wanted to come up and declare the support of this fine matter, this bill, and direct it to the highest level. Economic and economic ministers in the process, as it seems to be getting up already to this overall review, starting to complete the case as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u69	A respectable president. Here we vote for an important bill is designed to further promote research, technology, and innovation in this country. It was a monogamy of the Committee on the importance of this bill and consenting to it. The comments on the subject were positive, and the committee went even farther than the minister had done by opening up the tax charge when investing in companies, innovation companies. At the same time, we're removing the duration of assistance to a innovation company, i.e. subsidies, to ensure that these companies see a little ahead in the future in this regard. I think that I and I can be happy to accept this important bill, because it's the government and the Senate all, I think, to promote innovation here on the land. That's what matters to us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u70	Mr. President. It is now a pleasure to relate that the first law on supporting innovation companies was adopted in 2009 in the late president of Generalis as minister of finance. These laws have then taken many improvements at the time since then, over nine years. It is especially pleasant, as it were. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir's daughter spoke here, seeing the great solidarity of this matter. There's an increasing susceptibility to companies involved in research and development. Actually, it is one of the largest economic issues in Iceland to provide better for innovation, research, and development because it has the opportunity for the future. It lies in the future's economy, and it is of utmost importance, especially at the turning point in society's technological changes, that we do so well, and that we are well involved in building a new world so that future growth can become possible. Therefore, I am especially happy to see the solidarity established at the General Assembly on this vital issue that will be successful for the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u71	A respectable president. Agent of the Conspiracy at the moment. A financial and business committee, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, is absent today on the council's behalf. It's on this matter, and it's supporting it except that we've asked for a special vote on C- team 1. ... sinceshe'said. Hv. A senator believes that it would have been more necessary to examine and take a stand on viewpoints that would contraqualify an employee's ability to use a manual laid down in the b-jord 1 mg. 30. g. a law on income tax on buying stocks in a partner he works for. Of this team, we'll be sitting by in the Conspiracy some of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u72	Mr. President. I come up here to describe the support of Porta's council to this fine case. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy's in foreign countries on behalf of the council, but I know he's got a whole mind behind this case and is now happy that he's going through the council. That's what we all do in the Pirates, and we support innovation and evolution. I'll say the highest words. Prime Minister: New creation and development are the key to the future, and we must take good care of these articles if we are to do well in the coming time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u73	A respectable president. Because it's the highest. Since 2009 and 2010, the prime minister speaks so much about innovation. Only from 2010 have we increased support for research and development in innovation from 100 billion. K. into 600 million. K. 150 million, however. K. into 900 million. K. We need only to see how large a step we take here in support of a new creation company, which contributes to the success of research. But more than anything else, we support the growing support of Icelandic employment, where innovation is fundamental, and we strengthen the value created in Icelandic society. By doing so, we will strengthen prosperity for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u74	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to see how good a meeting is at the Hall on this matter, and hopefully we'll be able to take even more steps into this being by removing the roof with everything I think all evidence goes down to, i.e. if we have faith that innovation will bring back a positive product for national preparation and, therefore, a government fund. Then there is no evidence that there is a covering for long periods of time. To say this, I declare that I support this matter wholeheartedly and welcome the parapolitic solidarity of this matter. I wish that there was as good a parapolitic community for the greatest curse for innovation in Iceland, U.S.A. But that's different.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u75	A respectable president. There's a great deal of justice here that a 1st merchant named Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, puts forward, and we progressives are behind it. The bill is intended to be met by a group of children, who because of special circumstances do not have the support of two parents. The bill shows that in Iceland there are about 900 children who have lost a parent. It is stated that a single parent can apply for a child's pension instead of exercise if a child cannot be fathered because of a special situation. The bill is intended to be met by this group of children and single parents who cannot receive special contributions from a parent on the basis of child - responsibilities. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A well - being committee for cooperation on this subject has provided that each of us has been able to do so on this occasion in votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u76	Mr. President. I think it's important to come up here. The clock is starting to tilt in four, and this is my first chance to be positive today, so I was going to express my joy with this subject. Thank you. The panel of candidates for bringing this matter up and expressing my joy with a single mind on the welfare committee and the work that took place there, which led to a certain expansion of the case, reaching even more than original. I hereby declare my pleasure in being on this bill as an audience member of the welfare committee and agree with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u77	President. There is much improvement in this matter's success at the council. Implicit rights of those who have lost their mates and the parents of their children relative to those who have just decided to break up have been tragic. Of course, the State is to participate in payment at the cost of child rearing, just as do the parents who pay support. In many cases, this group has no assistance, no backland, and no support except the one given by the State. Here's a matter for all members of Congress to be proud of. This is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u78	A respectable president. I'm glad this bill has come to a vote and it becomes a law. It is about the welfare and well - being of children, and I especially want to mention the number of children who have lost their parents. It is a group that needs to be handled carefully, and such changes and intervention must be considered at the severe event that the death of a parent has no greater effect than it takes. It will follow them forever. There's a lot to fix, and this is one part of it, and I'm glad it's done by the council. We have been working on one thing and have to move on in this regard, to consider this group of children, and to ensure the welfare and support of them to the best of our ability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u79	Mr. President. What a joy it is to know that this matter has come into play! This is one of the great deals of justice. We add the benefits of a relatively small and distinct group of people who have suffered tragedy in life or who are under attack for other reasons. How happy we are that the council is solidly united and is a cause for rejoicing! The well - being committee should have met with full solidarity in this fine matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u80	A respectable president. It's a great deal of justice, and I'm so glad that this case has come through. It also shows what we can do if, if we stick together, we are able to handle such a great deal of righteousness and put them through, as it were. when we stopped paying taxes to cars and to others for strength. There are a number of situations that must be handled, and this shows that we are on the right track. We are to focus on taking such matters and putting them through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u81	V.E.G. President. I am glad that we have come to this place and that we can show a solid sense of solidarity that we are going to stand together in this great justice business. Here we put our arms around a small, well - chosen group that is about to strike, children who are in a difficult and difficult situation. We can and should hold that group. I want to thank you, Your Excellency, for taking such a good deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-11-46.u82	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this bill. It's simple and clear, it's just and fair. We are working in harmony with the United Nations Children's Covenant when we are working on it. We are working against the discrimination of children, and it is, of course, in the spirit of our good old constitution, that we want by all means new and new. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is a constitution that rejects discrimination. I hope that's going to be the end of the council here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
