ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u1	I'll tell you what. All council members welcome to serve again after the intermission of action for district elections and will begin the final session of the council during this spring. A letter from Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and Hrafn Djörn Gunnarsson said they can't attend next week. Today, therefore, members of the General Assembly, which served as members of the Council of K. Gylfadóttir and Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir. Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir, who has once taken up residence at the General Assembly, is welcome to serve again. The letter of Ásgerð K. Gylfadóttir has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not previously taken her place in the General Assembly, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u2	The Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir has signed a royal pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u3	In a letter dated May 23, 2018, the president has requested this, according to the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Congress, with the Commission and Control Committee, that it deals with the following reports by the State Reconnaissance: archeological Protection Management Board; Convention of Advisorys and Their institutions; State responsibilities and reimbursement of the Reich Fund and the Silicon Factors United by Simlikons hf. -Secrets and government checks.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u4	Borist has received a letter from the following wanted-to-need counsellors to provide written answers to queries: from a foreign secretary for the application of the letter. 237, for the import of raw and unbound foods, from Bjarni Jónsson, to the threshing floor. 837, about the bioavailability of disabled people, from Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, and on a threshing floor. 384, for the ministers and for the driver, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. From the Environment and Resource Minister for Information on Theft. 836, on the bioavailability of disabled people, from Árnason Arnammon. From the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister for the Scourge. 810 on environmental fishing, from Eymarsdóttir Eymarsdóttir. From Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for wish to inquire. 793, for multisystem management of behavioural disorders, from Halldóra Mogensen, on screen. 841, about the bioavailability of disabled people, from Vilhjálmur Árnason. From the health minister for the trim. 838 of the bioavailability of disabled people, from Vilhjálmur Árnason. Finally, from transport and local minister for the application of decks. 834, about the bioavailability of disabled people, from Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u5	V.E.G. President. It has been said that the Ministers give answers to members of Congress's inquirys late and badly. Today we are receiving an answer to a question submitted until February 20th. The answer is poor. There is no information available on people who bought, whether individuals or businesses, as the inquiry had expected. The answer says, with President's permission: A more careful analysis of buyers is now being made to earn the credit of Perone Protection. Now, in May. The request was submitted on February 20th. What have some in the Ministry been doing all this time? If this was the case, why had there been no doubt as to whether there was a need for Persian protection or not? This is information that is announced in the county. This is official information. These are assets that are being sold as the state's possession, owned by an apartment loan. Why the secrecy? Which persons are being protected?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u6	A respectable president. What happened earlier was what happened. paritaprevir It must be the highest power of Sólmund's Sæmundsson. The president worries; that the Ministry allows itself to approach the council in this way. First, give an answer many weeks, actually months after the Ministry was asked. Senator. Second, when the answer finally comes, it is not even to answer the question but to bear a reference in a personal protection law. I say like what? paritaprevir Sæmundsson: If that's true, if it's the real reason why the answer doesn't come after all this time, why didn't it come out sooner? How did that change during those long periods of time? Why is it that, many months later, people make it clear that they cannot answer the question and refer to a personal protection law?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u7	Mr. President. I've been waiting for three months for an answer from the highest. Financial and economic ministers. I've asked for written answers about the Panamas and their processing, but like that. Senators are expected to remember we had a worldwide record of a number of agents in Panama and Northern America. We don't know how it works to process the documents and whether we can't score them too. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers also made us wait for a report on Iceland's property in foreign areas. The question is, Why on earth does that answer stand? What's taking so long? I want to pray to the highest. To assist us members of the Parliament in the pursuit of answers. There must be more than enough time to answer simple questions over three months.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u8	Mr. President. It is good to remind you of the government covenant in this context. The Senate is to be promoted by its glory and dignity. It is not to do so by this behaviour of the government, where her ministers will answer late, even evil, and some of them never. It must be made clear that we need to strengthen the council. We must also realize that the Ministry needs to set priorities for the legislature. It's the role of the Senate under here. They are not to weaken them; they are to be strengthened. When we listened to a list from the highest. One where the Ministry is asking for some answers, it won't work if we're getting the answers on the middle of the summer or even until the fall. It's not working. Thus, our surveillance role here is being undermined as members of the council. This is bound to affect our agreement in the state of government over the end of Congress this summer. The government has to take over. [[The president calls.]] The Speaker of the Council must speak to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister in this regard, in the manner and conduct of the government, and in answer to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u9	Mr. President. I have to agree with someone else. Councilmen who have pointed to the angle in which ministers answer questions directed to them. It's a law-established time. It is possible to ask for an exception, but not to be an isolated case, it should not be the norm. Taking answers to less than three months is completely unacceptable. In the same context, I've waited for the highest. Of course, a new president who now sits on the basis of the council in trying to function as a member of Congress. Now we are here on the first day after a long break on the program for two teams - two part sessions. Yet, there are a lot of senators and other matters that could be left on the schedule today and could quite pass through the march here. This situation is not acceptable anymore. We must get answers sooner and have to face a normal case at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u10	A respectable president. This is my favorite subject in the President's conference board. I will then run the program I have that will show me what the situation is on queries. The current council has an average response time of 31 active days for the queries that have been answered. The mean duration of query remains 34 days. This means that if any question that remains now, which is 110 pieces, the average would be 34 days, it would increase the average of all answered queries a little. At 144th, the average response time was 31 active days, so we are worse at present. At 145 C.E., the 38 days and 39 C.E. were held at the 146th Council. In 147 C.E., it was a strange assembly, the reply time was 21 days at the time. We are in a situation where answers are expected two weeks ago, but for some reason we are getting answers much later than we expect in the United States. There may be a problem with financing or something similar, or there may not be a number of employees to handle this or some other problem that will then be tackled, extending the time, or increase the budget. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u11	Mr. President. I came up here to join the people who have spoken. Of course, this is incredibly interesting. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson read up to us, i.e. that this is going into worse shape, despite the fact that the government, as presented so many times, has specifically proclaimed in the government covenant that the way of the Generals should be increased and the cooperation of the United States should be improved. However, I especially want to express concern that it may be delayed to answer a question. "Oddný Harðardóttir" convoluting from Panama documents. There is no ordinary matter here. It is a fact that has actually created a great gap between the public and the people of the land who have been able to take advantage of all sorts of opportunities and resources. There will never be peace in society until we pick up this matter. [[The president calls.]] I remind you that Prime Minister is the Director of action in this government. [[The president calls.]] She talked a lot about it during her last term, and she must be taking the shit out of her head at the top. Secretary of finance, and ask him to answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u12	Mr. President. The discussion shows that there is no exception that our questions are late and poorly answered. That's a rule. So I have to agree with what others have said before, asking the president to stand with us members of the council to protect the rights we have to obtain information that is important to the public in the country. And make sure that ministers do not get away with killing matters either on suspension or inaccurate answers, as has now been done. Secondly, I must ask the president for my suggestions on the matter. It is intolerable when the answers that come late and eventually are only the top of the iceberg, only part of what was asked of us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I have to ask the President to join us with members of this matter and to make sure that the Ministers are dressed in a book, giving answers to queries within the specified time and answer the queries which are addressed to them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u13	Mr. President. Thank you for the well-being of the conference board. I believe it is very important that we discuss this position on the Senate Presidency Committee. I think it is proper to remind, though, that at this council, 316 requests have been made for a written answer, which is no doubt a significantly greater number than we have seen in previous councils. Of these 206 have been answered. I see in the issues that have been distributed that are at least here. 30 answers from advisers. Hv. Congress officials complain of lack of programs. Here are a few questions for an oral answer to the one listed here. I offered to stay here and answer them, but what? Sadly, members of the council were busy and unable to attend. I'm hoping we'll get that inquiry class next Monday. Of course, members of Congress sometimes need to be elsewhere, but I find it important to bear because ministers have not been prepared to attend here to answer queries today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u14	A respectable president. So, for some balance in the discussion, I would like to agree with Prime Minister, that we have probably never in history received as many queries from the council to the Council as we do today. At the same time, I'm going to express my opinion that we may never have received as many, extensive, and precise inquiries as we now do. I give as an example of asking from what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who seems to be on my mind to make a record of the inquiry, about the work of the council. It is ten years in advance for all members of the General Assembly, all the committees they've been sitting on, what product came out of all those committees of the council. ten years. How they have been paid, what do members of the Parliament expect to have worked hard in time, counting for every committee ten years back in time. Is there anyone here in this room that I agree that this is getting into empty nonsense?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u15	A respectable president. It's really interesting when the Ministers complain about inquiries. But what has been said here is a lie. Simply put, at 144th, the total number of queries was 356, just to be clear, that is, more than right now. [[Up front.]] A very many of the inquiries that have been proposed to this council are copies of the same inquiry, which say one inquiry submitted to many ministers. In fact, they count more than ten times, the question that is below the limit. [[Up front.]] It's different how the work load spreads on them questions, certainly, but responses to many of the people I've got are a simple copy of the first query. It's been possible to add a job to that question. First, I'd like to say: No, this is not the council, since most inquiries have been proposed. It might well be that they still increase, then they need to increase by 40, such as slag.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u16	Mr. President. In February I proposed a question about how to extract the Panamas, how much money came into a state fund, whether there was enough money and knowledge to work in the tax service, and I requested a comparison with Denmark. On March 6, I asked another inquiry about the salary of directors and executives in state institutions and in businesses owned by the state and its pay structure. The answer has not yet been answered. It can't be, Mr. President, that these answers remain on account of questions from what? paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. Is that why? That's why I don't get the answers to these two questions that have been left for over three months at the highest. Financial and economic ministers? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u17	Mr. President. Just a little short, that I'd like to add. They're complaining about just over 300 queries over a period of five months. [[No one was complaining.]] There are 11 ministers, in effect, about six queries per secretary over a period of five months. This is hardly to be used to assist the staff in handling these matters. To reimpose the program. This may not only be about getting prepared and oral inquiries if it was certainly good. Rather, it is a great lack of continued attendance through the council. I don't know why it's going to get so late. There is no good explanation, but that there may be a certain lack of will at the highest level. The government and the President of the Parliament to resolve this, but of course Congress is to get the priority in other matters at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u18	Consider: Prime Minister, secretary of finance and economics, travel, industrial and innovation, and marine eco-efficiency.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u19	A respectable president. Now the mayor's elections are over, and I guess it's easier to discuss a case that could possibly be discussed. In some way it is considered to be a sensitive issue in the leading of their elections. I asked a few weeks ago about the government's plan in terms of a so-called city line. Then it was said in a case of the highest order. Secretary of finance that no special funding would have been put into operation, which is the answer to the government's five - year financial program. In fact, there is no funding for this project in the city itself in its own strategy. So I found it very strange to observe about this matter, plan or interest in the construction of a so - called city line, whatever this means, that it was tried to make one of the biggest elections in Reykjavík. It should be safe to ask the highest. A minister would not consider this to be a matter that will lead to his next miseries. The end, as I mentioned earlier, is not expected in the government or the city's financial program. May it not be expected that this might be a future issue, but it is not a matter that is now in Reykjavík? Or can it be assumed that some major decisions will be taken in a more predictable future?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u20	A respectable president. It is this to say that there is an enormous amount of communication between the state and the rural society in the capital area. It is by no means any further in the relationship between these parties than it was requested by the local community to have a conversation about these matters with the State. This has well been taken into account by the government, and a new financial program for five years is reported to be the time for this conversation to take place. However, if a person wants to dig deeper and ask himself, " Is the financial program already full of funding on the part that has been mentioned to be falling into the center of the State, it is quite easy to read from the plan that it is not? ' It doesn't change that I expect this conversation to be formalized and that, to a large extent, the secretary of transportation will follow it up. But I feel, and I have previously declared that the debate over the city line actually exceeded the entire normal context of the situation. It is simply true that 70 billion dollars has been said to be on the way. We're talking about a amount of money that's been standing in us for a decade scraping together to rebuild the Hospital. That's a lot of money. So it is a little strange that men think that they can go to elections and choose directly when neither party has shown that it comes from playing that is needed to implement the idea. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u21	A respectable president. I thank you for the relatively clear answers. Minister. His case cannot be understood any different from that it is not expected to be in the predictable future, say five years, capitalize on this project, in the process itself, ending the purpose of a government plan to this long period of time to give some reasonable assurance about what is going on. Apparently, it's not going to the city line in the terms of yesterday's rural regime. V.E.G. Of course, a minister will follow the story of a conversation. I'm not gonna put out on it if people talk to each other. But then that conversation will probably stand for at least Five years before making money on a city line, none of the five years may be available to reflect on these items.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u22	A respectable president. In view of the fact that the last two federal treaties have been referred to as a city line, I would like to see that the two member ministers of that government have stressed that the city line cannot be discussed privately or improved by public transportation without it being placed in some of the overall context of communication in that area, i.e. in the capital area. It is quite clear that there is a need for significant funds, although only in maintenance and other basics in the capital area. This is known to us in connection with the Smokey Way and connections from the capital. It's the first time people have reached the full perspective on the projects that we can expect to end up in the formal conversation that is likely to take. When all the rural areas in the capital area call for that conversation, I feel that it is only a matter of course to sit down. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, it is very long before we see a conclusion from that conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u23	A respectable president. First, I'd like to congratulate all of us on our recent district elections. As our summer vacation continues to take place, our people are still sitting outside the community asking for justice. Poor people are still waiting for justice, which they promised of all of us during the election campaign in the fall. It's burned at me for a long time--and I wish I could be directing this inquiry to every senator, so I don't talk about every member of the government who has this case in his arms right now - the justice thing about moving money into the system, and then it's not been talking about big-time expenses to the state fund. We're talking about taking money from us, who are on our superpowers here, along with other members of the community that are on the superpowers and have almost all the nation's resources, and moving, though, only our personal discount to those who lean on their feet and get down to 220,000,230,000 bucks. paid over a month, even with children. In fact, we know that this amount of money is not enough to pay for the rent it offers in Reykjavík today. What I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance is, undercover. Secretary of finance, do you regret giving in to this personal discount to our people and group that really need it? If so, why?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u24	A respectable president. This government has established the position of those who are less fortunate to be on the program with many emphasis. May I remind you that in accordance with previously stated statements, there were unemployment improvements, job benefits, an increase of 19% earlier in this month. With regard to the tax system, the personal discount, and its interaction with the tax levels, and thereby the tax system, the government is in agreement with the labour market. The last meeting last week, where the government explained where we are working to identify the impact of tax reforms designed to be particularly reduced by low income groups and lower intermediate groups. To that end, we have made room for the financial agenda, as we can read in a report. We've taken from 10 billion in the coming years, gathered up, to reach out to these groups, to relieve their tax burden. And, yes, the personal discount is part of the opinion we are attacking, i.e. how we can apply it in other ways. But we are not in ourselves thinking things out. In order to relieve the burden of taxes elsewhere, a senator puts it up here to increase the tax burden on some groups. Rather, we are talking about a total drop in taxes. So I think there's a lot to be expected in these substances. We have made it a point to come up with conclusions from this work later this year. This is called in agreement with the financial program discussed at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for this amazing answer. That's all I can say. It is said that there should be no discrimination and more tax burden on certain social groups than anyone else. This is, in effect, a tax burden on those who can afford to pay taxes. Is it normal for us to tax poverty? Is it reasonable to invite that the State could be run any different from that of poor people? By taxing poverty? We're talking about unemployment improvements. Yeah, okay. How wonderful it is if we have so much money that we can put 2 or 4 or 5 billion into that fund when there is virtually no unemployment in the country! Isn't that some kind of wrong priorities? Couldn't we start the funding a little differently? I'm just saying, we're going on vacation now. We know exactly from all the mappings, from all tax reports, that there is a shortage of 9.1% of children here. [[The president calls.]] We don't need to talk. All it takes is improvements, measures, and they need to be right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u26	A respectable president. In fact, I think it's very important that unemployment insurance is in a decent way, the benefits had been reduced again from pay and prices development in the country, and it's been a progressive step to raise them to the end of the labour market. The other one's right next to what's wrong. A senator's main concern is that people have jobs to do. It's not just that there's work to be done. It's a valuable job to do. A job that pays more than we have seen in the past so that we also pay our taxes. It is not necessarily possible for those who do the lowest paid jobs in the country to do so in terms of pay that cannot be paid. Of course, pay should be given in the country, including in the lowest pay groups, under tax pay. The work market in this country should not assume that those who are employed or whose experiences pay so low that they cannot tolerate taxes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u27	A respectable president. On May 2, the Ministry of Presidency announced his website.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: To suggest the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, Prime Minister, Katrín, has been determined to perform an independent assessment of specific matters in the country of child protection, which have been discussed in the Ministry of Health and the General welfare Committee. As we know, the management of the Ministry of Health and the Supreme Court is turning. Minister of well-being on the complaints received from child welfare committees for the operation of Bragi Guðbrandsson, director of Child Welfare, and candidate for the United Nations Child Welfare Committee, and the alleged abnormal interference Bragi the Committee's Committees and Special Child Welfare. Mr. President. Today's online website shows that the Ministry of Health is looking after a work contract and as an agent, define the project and is responsible for its implementation. Before we go any further, I'd like to say that I have no reason to doubt the integrity of the individuals who have been offered to win the assessment, but I would like to ask the highest degree. Prime Minister whether she feels it is an honest presentation on her part to respond to my inquiry about the Commission's orders in an unsubstantiated question period on May 2, this way, by permission of the president: But as prime minister, it is my duty to use the resources that Ministers have in the Council of Government to bring to independent experts, as I have now done, to provide such an evaluation. In the same talk, the minister also referred to the need to use such sources to ensure that these cases, child - welfare, were above all doubt. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is the highest. Is this minister of honest presentation on his part? Second: Tells you the highest. Ministers that the evaluation as the Ministry of Health directs its own actions may be above all doubt?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u28	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks me if I have been dishonest in the presentation of how to evaluate child protection as a result of a media discussion on that subject. I say no. I was not dishonest in that presentation, and I find it surprising. A senator approaches it that way. The facts are that I called the experts, Kjartan Bjarni Björgvinsson, the district judge, and Kristín Benediktsdóttir, and requested that they do this assessment. I published a government memo on the case where the government was informed of this. In that memo, these experts also discussed their assignments. In my answer to ask why. A senator, if I recall correctly, also stated that the project was not under the law of research committees, but under the regulations of the Council of Government. The project is to review government lawsuits in the issues under discussion, i.e. Child Welfare, Child Welfare Services and Health Services. However, under the Government's legislation the payment of this case will have to be paid from the government's provision funds to pass through the Ministry of Health, and it is a contract to do so. There is nothing in this treatment that reduces the fact that the experts I received to the job, as shown in my answer to a question at any time. A senator can faithfully care for the assignment given to him. The execution will be returned to the government. This same memo stated that the result would also be published publicly when it was in power. Hv. So there is no need for a senator to worry about dishonesty in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u29	Mr. President. I'm still worried. My concerns simply turn to it - and now I ask about honest production because of the highest words. A minister could understand that it was responsible for the highest responsibility. Prime Ministers to appoint this independent employer and that instead of working on a work contract with the Ministry of Health, they would be working on a contract with the Ministry of Presidency, or at least Not connected to the Department of Health. I'll let me repeat my second question to the highest level. Prime Minister. It's under the roof. The prime minister's natural opinion is that if the Ministry of Health is involved in the work itself, the evaluation as the Ministry of Health will be established above any doubt? Is that credible?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u30	Mr. President. This was shown in my case with the previous inquiry of why. A senator said I had summoned these experts. It is true. That's what I said to him. Then a senator can confirm with him now. I also set up the line of the project, i.e. to review all the evidence and the case of the government that discussed. However, there is some evidence available in the Ministry of Health. According to the Board of Directors, this is in the area of the Ministry of Health. There is also the possibility that it was desired to do so. The social and equal minister that he would not direct the project or which experts would be given to the project. But, yeah, that's right, it's going to leave the Ministry's books through the government's provision money. In case of a moment. A senator is concerned that, as I said earlier, they experts will not carry out this task faithfully because of this, I can absolutely assure him that I have no reason to believe that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u31	Mr. President. A report by the General Review to the Council on the management of tourism, published in October of this year, can be said to have been brought up by a review of the European Commission, which has been led by the Independence Party for the last five years. The report points out, in the opinion of Government Review, that the responsible and role division in the tourism administration is blurred and not entirely in accordance with current travel regulations. Tourism, set up at the end of 2015, did not simplify the matter, and there was a great need to explain the role and responsible division within the category to improve coordination and address the changing tourism environment and new challenges. Government reviews go so far as to encourage the employment and innovation services to increase the efficiency and efficiency of the system that really needs to be done. They need to be thoroughly explained to the role of those in the presentation and market. In particular, it says that international market work has been left out and that the role of the stakeholders involved in the marketing and introductions and the establishment of the State must be explained as to the activities of the Member States. All of these are very serious indications. So I'd like to ask the highest. A travel minister what's the highest. Ministers have made arrangements to correct the management of tourism and to follow the indications and recommendations proposed by the State Accounting Board in October, 2000. I remind them that ministers are judged by their actions, as well as by their lack of work. Not much has been observed at the council, suggesting that something is going on in these matters. We can't afford to give money to travel, as the Independence Party has done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u32	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by saying I don't agree with what. A member of the Parliament that what is presented in this report National Reexamination is a review of transport and tourism arrangements in Iceland, full of indications. For the council there's a bill about a travel agency. It's part of fixing the organization. It's a better explanation of the Agency's administrative role. We're putting in a study unit, that it's the foundation that's responsible for it, that has a view of what needs to be investigated and considered specifically. We then cooperate with those who best do so. With regard to the CP it was all the time anticipated that it is debated how it was set up. Part of the explanation that it was established in the way it was done is that there are so many people who thought that there was a lack of a proper conversation. The experience of the travel station is very good. I wouldn't have liked it to be a travel center. A number of projects were started because the management center was on the move. I also point out that travel Control is temporary. It is due to come to an end in 2020. I've always said that I hope she does. When it comes to it, and it's part of a travel agency bill, there's a change in travel council. This will change later after the law actually comes into effect, so it will be replaced by the Travel Control Center. At the same time, I think it's important that there be a special Minister because the travel service is the sector across the community that can never be placed at one department. Regarding the fact that I just answer for myself, that I'm turning in a lot of money when it comes to travel and tourism, I couldn't agree. I may later use the answer to list the many assignments I have prepared. I'm also getting a job after the Ministers who were ahead of me planted their seeds and set them off, a project we're working on right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u33	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the answer. I think this is an interesting idea of a Minister's Committee. But there is a problem. There are more and more signs of coldness in tourism. The crown's boost is to make it clear that each tourist is now making fewer dollars and has the competitiveness of Iceland's tourism services actually reduced according to World Economic Forum data. It's like the highest. There are now two prime bars associated with the direction of travel, but unfortunately they do not seem to help. In a district bill for travel agency law, there is a substantial lack of vision of the role of the Agency, and much is complained about the lack of communication. Then the bill to legalize the changing of Iceland law has been severely criticized and gives to form both the National Reunion and the Contestance Control bill. Mr. President. I can't help but wonder if with these initials it's not yet been tried to delay building properly up tourism management. Is it really the politics of the Independence Party taking responsibility for the group? That's what I'm talking about. Minister wants? [[The president calls.]] It has to show how she's going to do this, but unfortunately it's not in this prime event, and it has a major impact on this country's largest industry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying that if anyone doubts about it, I'll feel a lot of responsibility as a travel minister. I realize that we are here with the largest industry in the country that has grown dramatically in recent years. With the concerted efforts of the people in the country, the individual effort has been successful. Governments have carried out a great number of projects, the state level as well. It is true that this article is in great shape. In some respects, the air is shining, but when it comes to prices, we are not competitive. But when it comes to other factors, we certainly are. We need to build on it. We have a change in the European Commission's Actual Fund, the Air Development Fund, and an advanced facility where we have set our priorities to improve the education of those working in the article including the article. to improve quality. We have Vegetarian and a national development programme for infrastructure under the Environment Ministry. We have the research module that I mentioned before, so-called little Mergro, that I think is absolutely fundamental in this industry, so we know exactly what we're talking about at any given time, and we can make decisions about it. [[The president calls.]] We then have a major challenge report that will also become a complete basis for long-term dating, where we're going to do the job and where we can do well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u35	Mr. President. In recent rural elections, especially in the capital area, there was the strange situation where certain categories were in part at odds with buses and made a city line a special target in their campaign campaign. It is somewhat strange because of the simple fact that when we look at traffic forecasts for the capital area and the cost of transportation, the growth of public transport, whatever their names, is probably the most profitable investment in the pavilion system. In fact, the government in its policy declaration has said, in short and clear fact, that city lines will be supported in cooperation with local communities in the capital area. So many of them spoke in terms of that important project. Granted, it is in the opening phase, but when two of the three federal groups make a city line for a special target in the rural government elections in the capital area, it is reasonable to ask if the government has anything to do with its support for the project. In view of the importance of public transportation and transportation in view of the capital area - public transportation is certainly only part of the total solution but an important part of it, along with the necessary investments, in improving the flow of the capital area, whether you look to buses or the private car - I think it is normal to ask the highest possible question. Prime Minister: Is the government serious about supporting the city line, or is this merely an expression of a punt in its declaration of policy? In what way, then, will the government support the city line project in the coming years?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u36	Mr. President. The city line was highly besieged in rural elections like that. A senator points out. If I may express my own personal opinion, I often felt that the candidates were not talking about the same things when they discussed the city line. However, the city line project has been introduced to the Government Minister for Transportation, which was specifically conducted in the capital area. The idea of the project is, of course, looking for the population of the capital area to increase by 70,000 to 2040. We know that if the source of resentment in urban communities is intelligent, there is a tendency for road delays. Then you need to look at how you can make your traffic system so that it is efficient and serve climate goals, both state and rural, which, of course, are the same. The thought behind the city line of work today is primarily to be an supplement for buses and also to be driven by renewable energy sources, i.e. different from today's electricity, it becomes a environmentally-friendly transport system. However, at the early stage of this project, it was discussed even trolley transportation, light trains, so this project has made significant changes in the conversations of rural society in the capital area. What does the government want? asks why. Senator. We want to have a conversation with the local community in the capital area, and we already have this conversation because for these rural elections, an analysis was made between the Department of Transport and the Federal Government, the Vega, and the Community Association in the capital area to link this project - and it is true that it will cost 70 billion, all of which are involved, however, the first legion is closer to a population of 3,86540 billion - and then there is also the fact that the rural areas in the capital area want to have several other forms of transportation. There is no decline in discussions about the cost of a state's reception on this project, but it is very important that all the people can make plans that we have this overall picture and schedule. [[The president calls.]] The discussion will likely continue when new more parts have been formed in the rural areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u37	President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, of course, well - clear answers. It is a joy to know that the project has uncircumcised support for the government. It is of utmost importance for newer parts of rural governments here in the capital area to have it clear best from the government. You're absolutely right by the Topv. A prime minister that it is important to look to other road improvements in the capital area too. I think it's the common interest of most of the rural communities here at least to improve public transportation and as well as the general flow of traffic in the capital area. Then I must ask, Is there a reason to record that agreement? Clearly, there has been no priorities in transport donations here in the capital area of the current transport secretary or his predecessors, including Based on the agreement made with the rural areas in the capital area, the public transportation was stressed to ten years of age. Does this mean, in parallel to the urban development campaign, that there will also be an increased focus on the general transport reforms in the capital area? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u38	Mr. President. What I've said here is exactly the same thing I've seen in both the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. A secretary of transportation who was specifically asked about this in financial discussions. We have come to that place, because of what. A member in particular asks about the overall picture, that the local community in the capital area has set down its priorities in agreement with the Transport and Transport and the Ministry of Transport. The next steps will be expected to happen if they sit back down. As seen in the highest grade. As with the State, financial ministers have not expected this in their budget. That's because we haven't actually discussed the funding, how it should spread between rural and state. This must be in line with other transport improvements, for all of us know that the need is urgent. However, I have emphasized that with transportation in the capital area, we must have a long - term view. We should not be in the process of solving today's problems without thinking about tomorrow. [[The president calls.]] We must expect the increase, and we must have climate targets as one of our guides in the activities to be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u39	A respectable president. I'm here to direct two questions to the highest level. Seafood and agricultural ministers. They, on the other hand, turn to the purity of imported meat and, in the case of farmers, especially sheep farmers. A significant import of meat has now been allowed by the European Union, including the European Union. in connection with a tax agreement, which has been carefully criticized for recent discussions. The Minister of Agriculture has announced counterweight measures to balance the situation of Iceland's farmers with foreign manufacturers, and I'm interested in knowing what these measures are and whether they are intended to be carried out now and if not, when. It seems that all of this has been overlooked by the most relevant individuals in this matter. The purity of domestic food production is of utmost importance to us Icelanders. Lack of purity of imported meat, including Based on the use of medicinal products, there is a concern in many places. How is control of the purity of imported meat being maintained? Are there changes in this arrangement planned, and how? Or is it as if many people feel that a foreign plunger is in place that says the meat is okay, and we have lost all control over the import? These are the main points I wanted to address in this context. I've read from a pontte part of the National Conference Party once before. It says, with the permission of the President, in anference on agricultural matters: It should be noted that import of the raw agrienvironmental products does not carry the risk of infection for domestic farms. Confidence in the meaning of farming and traceability combines the interests of farmers and consumers. The national food security and food security will be assured. National production requirements must be the same as those required for the production of exported farms. Now I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers of these counter measures, how that work works, and also in the purity of imported meat. [[The president calls.]] How are such matters being handled today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Bergþór tiri Ólason query. How wonderful it is to hear him witness in the Controversy of the Independence Party! I wish he would come and build them along with us as well. It's been discussed quite a while. I'm here to mention that I've invited all members of the Parliament to present this presentation in the Ministry the other day. I think there's a reason I repeat that invitation. The nature of the matter, given the rest of the council, was very difficult to attend. I think she's in full need. It reviews both the history and the conduct of the case, what are you doing, etc. It is true that there is a record of 2016 of ideas in eight teams, i.e. Suggested measures in agreement with tollvoms on import, particularly meat. These suggestions vary widely and have not been worked with. Still, some are on the road. Well, it looks like who we're talking about. On the other hand, the big issue, as a matter of course, changes. A senator noted, to monitor the purity of meat. It was concluded in 2005◯2007 that there was no underlying issue of health care in Iceland. The problem with how we're going to deal with the new reality that results from the introduction of European Union food legislation in this country, the problem that is most important is how we're going to develop the surveillance on the market that has its meat in Iceland. It's all in the dough. This is discussed in the above - mentioned presentation. The most difficult thing in terms of less plans will be the cohesion of the government's surveillance by the Food Organization and the Health Care Unit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u41	A respectable president. I think the highest. To some extent, agri-environmental ministers have misunderstood my concern about the surveillance arrangements in terms of food purity. I was not concerned about national manufacturers, but about how to monitor with the foreign production brought to the country. That's where my worries lie. I couldn't get to the most excellent meeting in the Ministry. The minister referred to it. The news that I received from him was that there had been a fine review of possible counter measures, even though they may not yet appear, but there was very little discussion of purity. I'm concerned that the checkout at the starting point of the imported food is in the chapters. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'd like to know about a minister, how possible intervention will be performed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u42	A respectable president. The introduction of the imported products is the same as the production of Icelandic production, i.e. for purity. The Treaty on the uptake of food legislation led to the same process as we can export seafood directly to the market in the European Union, because the health monitoring here ensures the quality of that product, we commit ourselves to trust in the European health monitoring of the European Union for its production. We do not view EU products as Third Reich products, nor do they view our products as markets from Third Reich. This is simply so that the health monitoring of both areas should be equivalent. Our problem is not making any other requirement for domestic production than we do with the move abroad. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In order to live up to that claim, we need to work on the surveillance in ways that we have not so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u43	Mr. President. The development of this inquiry includes an article published in the February issue of this journal. of this exact subject, i.e. where there is a study Vaka by Rögnvaldsdóttir Rackhamsdóttir and fellow students at the University of Iceland's University of Education. It shows that today only about one third of girls in elementary schools and just over half the boys at 16 years of age exercise enough to meet public health goals. We know that exercise is important in health, including sleep. Exercise and exercise have been shown to be important in the treatment and prevention of many diseases. How important it is, then, that we create the situation and establish a way of life that enables movement to be a normal part of daily life! Its schools are extremely important, and their part of taking this habit will probably be overrated. So today, sports are part of a school, both high school and high school, and in some ways in high school. But it may be a question of whether there is more to be done. So I'd like to ask you the following questions for the highest level. Minister: 1st In view of the results of a study on the exercise and sleep of smoke - hungry young people, published in 2 issue of the 104th medical journal, a minister will do well to seek cooperation with the gymnasium on the task of improving the movement of basic schoolchildren, and how would such cooperation best be best achieved? 2. What requirements should be taken for the education of those who would be diligent students in cooperation with elementary school and sports? 3. Will a minister contribute to further research on the exercise and sleep habits of young people in order to gain fuller knowledge of that subject? 4. What provisions do ministers consider to help children and young people get more sleep than they are now receiving according to the results of the above tests? You should state that only 11%, i.e. 1 out of every 9 youths in this age range, i.e. 16 - year - olds meet both criteria. That's incredibly small. I believe that in any way we need to react there, so we'll direct these questions to the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u44	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry that is very important, for it moves us to focus our attention on the change in lifestyle and social changes we enjoy. Of course, these findings are sobering and sobering for our community and for what changes are taking place. However, I would like to point to the study of Viðar Halldórsson, conducted by research and analysis, shows that in the latter part of the 20th century, the community has been involved in a sort of sports industry. Since 1992-2014, boys have grown into sports, have doubled their sports activities, and have been tripled in young girls, making a big change. We're moving a lot. This study is so that we cannot overlook it. I want to tell you what. A senator that I am very interested in the government's cooperation with sports companies is more likely to meet a group of young people who do not exercise enough. I'd especially like to mention two things; first, the number of sports needs to be increased in the main course. The principal school course is three hours a week in sports, of which one is for swimming lessons. In view of the primary school curriculums, there is no basis for a decision to invite students to spend more time in school sports. I'm ready to have a conversation and talk with my local communities about increasing the movement of elementary schoolchildren and putting them in the main course. Second, I want to mention that I believe that parishion tools are in an even more integrated school day. As an athlete, we already invite basic schoolchildren to participate in a variety of sports programs, often after school ends. The day of school could be more integrated with sports and leisure activities. Of course, it is important to consider that many athletes have other jobs while training after the usual day of work. Here, rural society and the school authorities need to talk more carefully about organization and how to improve their ability to exercise. I am prepared to have that conversation with my locals and sports companies. There may also be some milestones in the activities of vacation homes in March when goals and guidelines for the first time were published for the quality of their jobs in vacation homes for six or eight years of age. These criteria were published by the Ministry of Education and Culture. One of the main lights there is to invite all to participate in a wide range of leisure and leisure activities without separation. I believe that by publishing these criteria, we increase the availability of children and young people to organized leisure activities. A respectable president. In terms of the law on education and guidance of teachers and school leaders in play, and elementary and higher schools, they recommend that they teach basic schools in order to teach them. Much of the education of sports teachers in the universities of the country has led to the wide range of knowledge bases. I believe that the training that sports teachers have offered is very good, and their work is successful. As to whether I will contribute to further research on the exercise and sleep habits of children and young people in order to learn more about the matter, I have requested to get a clearer picture of the status of the children and young people who have a different language in English in order to understand their access to sports. This group's situation would then be examined in comparison with their peers, who would direct our attention to their mental, mental, and physical well - being at school, as well as to the participation of these children in organized and unscheduled sports activities. One of the things I've learned as Minister of Education and Culture is that access and knowledge of leisure strength are unknown and we need to draw attention to it in order to increase the participation of these children in organized sports activities. I'll better come to the next question where time is relatively limited, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u45	V.E.G. President. This talk about movement and sleep and organization in elementary schools is worthy of all attention. A number of studies confirm that exercise and participation in organized sports and leisure activities counteract any abnormal behavior and promote children and adolescents in a number of fields, increases health and health, physical, mental, and social, and strengthens their self - image. Then these studies have confirmed positive results in learning. I'd like to refer to Dr. Hermundur Sigmundsson's research professor at the University of Technology and Science in Norway, whose conclusions are that exercise increases calmness and concentration, especially at the beginning of school day. Among other things, since then this organization has been well organized. I'd like to thank you for this discussion, and be very interested. Ministers are to take this matter further in all policies and classes of elementary school. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u46	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the voter taking this on the program and celebrating the words of a minister in order to handle these matters and enter. This is an extremely important matter that all of us know. No need to worry about the fact that exercise and sleep are the basis for our becoming healthy. That's how I like our kids. It is known that basic schools have a set curriculum to follow, and decisions for a number of hours are minimal. But we also know, and there I know that there are schools that have decided to increase sports education, and that has been done for some years. So I would like to wonder if there is a study of whether there is a connection between study results and exercise in these schools, where increasing emphasis on exercise and sports. I'm asking if there's anything we can work on and how we can figure out the connection there, if it's anything we can look for to build up somewhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u47	A respectable president. Here we discuss important matters, physical activity, and the sleep of children. I welcome that discussion in particular, and I welcome that statement to the highest degree. Ministers that she is ready to use herself to talk to governments, rurals, sports associates, and schools about better cooperation in the movement of children and young people. That's a huge deal in many respects, including. to simplify the day - to - day life of a child's family, to integrate school days and leisure activities with physical activity, and to contribute to more family leisure activities after the family's day of work in the home.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u48	Mr. President. I thank the members of Congress who have participated in the discussion and the highest. Minister for the answers. I think it is extremely important that we do everything in our power to increase the movement of basic schools and welcome the words of a minister to apply himself in this regard. This may be of utmost importance because, in fact, we are raising people for the next 80 to 90 years, we need to consider early whether we want them to be in good health when they are older. I also welcome the comments here that have shown that the schoolchildren work less hours. That is where, as the situation exists today, talking about children being at school at school. two, go to a good time after or from time to time, as it is called in Reykjavík, and then go to sports. Thus, the day of many basic schoolchildren may be much longer than the day of their parents'work. This is an unfortunate trend. Like what? paritaprevir The negative Anna Sævarsdóttir arrived in the past, and it is important that we try to increase quality time with our families. In this regard, I especially want to point out that such quality time can be moving and important to remember. I agree with it as the highest. A minister entered, it is important to look to the expense of the family. This includes families of children who are bilingual or non - American. There, free time allowances are important and are important to introduce people in the way they work. If we want to raise a healthy next generation, the next one, and the next one, we need to consider this early. [[The president calls.]] We need to deal with these matters at all levels of school, and I welcome the attention of a minister in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-05-28-62.u49	A respectable president. I just want to introduce one of the questions I did not get through earlier as to how to help young people get more sleep. I think that's a very good question. That's a big question. In our homes, how can we encourage children to get more sleep? Clearly, there is a big difference in how children do so in school. This is very important, related to health and the progress of children. One of the things we're looking at in the Ministry is to increase our education through the use of tools and to share it with students. Computer consumption has increased, we all see it, access to it. We need to get better acquainted with it, the school authorities and my department, how we can channel information to parents and children about the importance of this. A respectable president. It seems that much has been discussed about the importance of sports in communities since ancient Greek and Sókrates were dealing with this sect. They were thinking about the exemplary kingdom. A high priority was for sports and music because both articles were so encouraged. This is very important. We also see it in the growing world's life span that it is even more important that we start considering this very early. To me, the availability of sports is very important and that of music. We should contribute to the success of our efforts.
