ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u1	Borist has received a letter from the procurator of the Independence Party that Jón Gunnarsson 5th. We're out of here. "I can't be a member of Congress anytime soon. Today, therefore, he takes his place as a second deputy of the Independence Party list in the district, Karen Halldórsdóttir Halldorddótttir. The first replacement on a list has announced incursion. Karen Elísabet Halldórsdóttir has once sat at the General Assembly, and she is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u2	Borist has two letters from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to give written answers to inquiries on the deck. 970 protests against whale hunting and commercial interests, from the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and on the threshing floor. 837, about the bioavailability of disabled people, from Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u3	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a bill on the legislation on the ban on specific performance benefits and products from the greater part of the health committee. I'll also present the adjustment proposal to Article 4. The bill. This case is not entirely new. In the past, this has been observed during the council and what has happened. The welfare committee therefore discussed this in the past. The committee received a considerable number of visitors and received quite a few comments, as the committee noted. The objective of the bill is to prevent certain materials and medicinal products from being used to improve physical performance and to ensure that treatment and use of such substances and medicinal products will not cause health damage and prevent their unsaturable marketing. The bill's even. to influence the import, import, sale, sale, exchange, delivery, receipt, manufacture and possession of the above products. As mentioned earlier, the commission received some comments that were positive for the bill. However, it was clear to the committee that they were concerned about a penalty warrant, including some of them. those who were using these substances. It suggested that such heavy penalties, or even penalties, would be not normal to be for what you might call user doses, much rather to be punished by sale, import, manufacture, etc. The majority of the Committee does not make a modification proposal, however the following changes will be signed at 4. gr., so that after 2 mg. Section 4. Let a new paragraph come in, with the permission of the president: ▪ Drug or material treatment and medicinal products by therapeutic areas 2.g. you should only be punished when holding the amount of material beyond what may be considered to be your own consumption. In effect, this is a leak or defect that can be fined, imprisoned, or punished for very small doses. That doesn't mean that, at least not mine, and I dare almost claim more of the committee, that in some cases it is normal to use such drugs as performance aid, not at all. This is not the attitude, but the other, that those who hold such things and medicinal things to people, bring them in and sell them, are the real accusers, and therefore they ought to be counted worthy of their dues. I'm not going to have any further words on the subject and on this subject, but if necessary, leave me the right to participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u4	President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize specific performance improvements and medications. Since February the matter has been handled by a health committee and discussed it in any case, such as the case. paritaprevir And the speaker of the matter, Ólafur the son of Þór Gunnarsson, mentioned in his speech just this. I admit I was a little worried about the bill in the image it came from the Minister. My concern was that new sources should be placed in law to punish the consumers of certain substances and drugs. They were like those found in the drug law and therefore were putting certain substances under the same hat and traditional drugs. I was deeply concerned that a new group was being brought into the war against drugs. Pirates have always emphasized destructive measures. I follow that emphasis, and I think it is necessary to ensure that the law is not authorized to punish consumers. A smaller section of the Committee proposed a special opinion on the matter by suggesting that certain implementation be made to guarantee consumer penalties. This distribution had proved somewhat complicated, so a simpler motion was proposed by a leading authority on the Committee, who has fallen to ensure the exactness of such a penalties. I welcome that proposal and thank her for it and will vote with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u5	Mr. President. I think we're all happy that there's a bill to deal with something that's been a bit in the underworld, let's say, our economy and a problem for many people. It is a joy to see that after a few discussions, the welfare committee has met with a solidarity on the subject. This is not the first time that the case will happen to the Council and a pleasure if we can accept this bill. The stakeholders who had the opportunity to send in envelopes all of us will open up in an open voice to see that the bill is improving, although we have discussed some possible problem that comes with evaluating when we are on slippery ice and when we are not. It doesn't matter if it's the district attorney or the Olympian Olympian Union, they're all in one mind. We discussed the amount of consumption and their size, which was a big stumbling block for a long time. But we do know that the so-called illegal consumption of steroids can be hundreds or even thousands of doses given under the medical advice. The use of such substances is associated with serious consequences, indicating the Olympian Union. It can be accompanied by cognitive impairment, severe mood swings, sleep disorders, less empathy, increased aggression, depressed mood, anxiety and mental impairment, depression, and suicidal ideation. Children's agent places great importance on the importance of increasing our training in this regard. Police have noted that there are signs that those who face difficult situations and resort to violence may be members who have become addicted to such substances in excess. The Toll manager points out that it is important to frame this with regulations, as commands are given by the police, where guiltys for minor offenses are not provided by law and regulations for the Toll managers on the issue of pharmaceutical law and there will be a sharp contrast. In addition, the customs manager says that on the law a clear warrant is missing that the customs director, the Institute of Medicine, the governor, the police, the MAST, and the Ministry could transmit information between themselves that could shed light on the alleged mismanagement of various parties and doctors, if they are to be replaced, on the current order. It is in this great amount of money, as it is thought, and the consequences can be disastrous, as it is estimated that at least one person dies each week because of his or her overdose.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u6	A respectable president. I'm going to briefly explain the opinion of a greater part of the welfare committee on a proposal to be held on the terms of civilian pay. As mentioned in the polls, we covered the matter a great deal and had various visitors to the committee meeting. Despite the fact that people have identified the fine citizen's wage as an idea, it was also found that people view it in a very different way. Depending on who we are discussing, people see this as an addition to the financial insurance system we have in our community today or something that replaces them, whether this is intended for simplicity or economy, or what it is about the system we have today. As a result, everyone agreed on the proposed step, that there is a debate in the area where we sit in a good group, and that we define what the citizen's salary is, what it can be, and how it can affect in Icelandic terms. There is something other than the discussion of the committee. We nose, for example. The European Parliament concluded that it should be directed to its Member States to initiate such an examination. What we in the greater part would like to do to identify the pros and cons of a citizen's wage is not to initiate a team of experts. Rather, we want to hand this project to the Senate committee that will be established as soon as possible. I am very excited to see what that committee will do. So, in the greater part, our proposal is that the Senate resolution proposal will be referred to the government, and it will be commissioned to ensure that the assessment of the costs and failings of citizens' wages will be made among the projects of the future committee. I believe this as the next step in this case is a successful landing, that I hope that the committee will make a great deal of it and I trust that the members of the council who choose there will be as excited for the project as I am. It is a committee that will be delighted to meet future challenges.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u7	President. I recommend to the Committee's Committee my share of the welfare committee for proposals to be agreed on by a non-compliance of basic progress or what has been called a civilian salary. I'm very excited. The committee has discussed the matter and has received quite a few visitors, including the following: Professor Guy Standing, a British economist at the University of London, has experimented with civilian pay in India. What a thrill it was to invite him to come and teach the committee about civilian pay! The Parliament's arrangement suggests that the General Assembly concludes to hide a social and social equal minister in cooperation with a financial and economic minister to appoint a team as a map line to provide all citizens of the country with unprovable frameworks with the objective of strengthening the people's economic and social rights and promoting equal opportunities. A greater proportion of welfare committees have proposed a change in the proposal that the Parliament's resolution should be referred to the government and commissioned to ensure that the assessment of the costs and weaknesses of unprovable frameworks will be made among the projects of the future committee. The majority feel that there is good reason to identify the benefits and shortcomings of citizens as well as their possible implementation in the Icelandic context and that the project of the Senate committee, which the prime minister has announced will soon be arranged. I think it's a good compromise and I'm just rather happy with them getting into this case. The Commission's review showed that increasing discussions about unprovable shallow progress in recent years have strengthened a call for a careful study of the concept in the political field. The same is true in many other places, e.g. It was stated that on January 23, 2018, the European Parliament agreed on a resolution regarding the unprovable core development that encourages Member States to investigate the benefits of unprovable frameworks and review of existing systems. In view of the changes made in technology in the coming years and decades, it is important to look into the design of the present stratospheric system and to ensure the well - being of the citizens. In recent years, experiments with irreprehensible production or civil pay have been carried out in various countries, but one of the most extensive cases is currently being carried out in Finland. And, in fact, one of the most extensive features is in California, which is much bigger and wider than in Finland. Is it the purpose of this suggestion to examine the experience of other countries and set it in Icelandic context so that possible implementation could be considered in this country. To this end, it is important to identify as most of the scenarios and to want them from government costs and opportunities to make money back. As the report shows, the ideologies behind the unfounded progress of freedom and equality, efficiency and solidarity, the earth as the joint property of all the world's people, the equal share of mutual benefit of technical progress, flexibility in the labour market and dignity of the poor, the struggle against unemployment and inhuman working conditions, the struggle against nationalisation and inequities between rural communities, the promotion of adult education and the independence of the employer and partner. It suggests that these ideologies will be used in the work of the Committee and will be sought to ensure that as the broader population of those who have an interest in secular work comes to work. Under the Commission's review, there were some opinions regarding the irresistibly shallow progress that is worthy of consideration for the work that lies ahead. This includes: Be concerned, then, that such a system may tie up those who cannot work in a poverty trap. It is very important that, when the benefits of unrecognized ground transfer are examined, these factors and assured status of individuals and families should be considered individually and in particular, who need to rely on the existing adlocation system. Although much work can be done by simplifying the current implementation systems, including by taking out income connections and reducing the mitigation phases of a system interaction, the simplicity must not lead to deforestation of the social security network that large groups of people depend on for further implementation. As stated in the summary of the proposal, maps will be proposed as a means of ensuring all the citizens of the country's cities unprovable infrastructure. The work can be a natural continuation of the social security system over the past year. The results of the study proposed by this recommendation may lead to opening and developing a discussion about the future of the social security system. It is important to consult national and foreign experts as most experts are foreign in these matters, stakeholders and other persons who may be involved. Regardless of what the study outcome will be, it is important to increase the discussion of progress and development systems and to contribute to the testing of new ideas if they may involve improvement. As the Piranha and I look forward to this project, we rejoice at the solidarity that has been achieved to begin with to do the professional analysis work required by the Parliament's resolution proposal and, hopefully, will be a valuable addition to the discussion of our future international society. President. It's been five years since I started this Civil Prize adventure, and I've been watching the talk mature ever since I've been discussing civilian pay as a telepathy into an idea that should be taken seriously and taken with an open mind. I don't really get to say how awesome it is. So I'll do it and thank the council for the good work on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u8	Mr. President. In itself, I can welcome this suggestion. I have reason to believe that we need to examine this possibility as a response to future changes. However, I feel that civil pay cannot be a goal in itself. We will discuss some matters in connection with what they would mean. What's man's role, just in life? What is his purpose? We face crazy changes, much more changes than people in general realize. In fact, this digital revolution, digital evolution, is anything other than the traditional industrial revolution in which machines certainly replaced muscle forces, and people were moved from rural areas and into cities, resulting in problems of various kinds, which we now experienced. by laying the groundwork for a general education, which brought back to the common people's advantage. But now we face technology that will solve not only muscle power but also some aspect of our mind, i.e. We are about to face technology and equipment that, in fact, can learn, even faster than man can. We've seen programs loaded and filled with information about an object, such as. chess, or any other game, and the machine itself has come to possess more knowledge and skill than man has prospered in three or four thousand years. So we are about to face a very peculiar thing. In addition, digital products are far different from the products we have so far known, where protopes are created and you need humans or machines to produce the same kind of copy of the product. It takes time and a lot of people. Now, it takes a relatively long time to make one of the digital products, but then you can just detract it and press and create countless copies of it. We're obviously facing something that we haven't known so far. This presents an enormous opportunity. We can increase the production of amazing things that are absolutely necessary to cope with the change in world and nation. We can also reduce eco-efficiency, create an environment that is necessary if we are to cope with the climate crisis. And third, it's also an opportunity to break the quality level, reduces the difference between poorer and richer parts of the public, not just here in Iceland, but between countries as well. This also involves the challenge of setting moral goals. You see, this presents a tremendous threat. If there's nothing to do, e.g. In the tax system, it is simply decided that wealth accumulates on the hands of those who own manufacturing technology, own technology, and the public are left out. It's falling apart and there's nothing to change. Then who's going to pay the burgers? The premise that we can deal with this future is that we take seriously a political discussion about the tax system, its role. Are we just going to tax pay hours or we going to tax production units or moan? It is essential that we be able to pay back all our civilian wages. That's what I'm saying. I'm celebrating this discussion. On the other hand, I feel that it belongs entirely to the future committee, for civil pay is neither a goal in itself nor an absolute solution, but it needs to be played out in a good way with countless other solutions, and especially the consequences of this insane new technology, which is also a bit scary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u9	A respectable president. The civil pay discussion is of great interest. It's perfectly clear, like a snooze. paritaprevir The flame Logi Einarsson came in earlier, that we are facing an enormous change in the future. The technological development we have already witnessed and predicted will have a significant impact on the future of work and work arrangements throughout the world. However, my belief is that we will likely face these changes in a very similar way that we have so far, i.e. the many technological advances since the period of the industrial revolution that have usually led to considerable shorter working hours. It is not impossible for us to see a 30 - hour work week, a four - day work week, or even three days if it is already being done. It is good to remember that, on average, working time has halved over two centuries, and now we predict an even faster change. But I don't fear her and believe that, for example. Based on labour market agreements and trade union strengths, balance will be achieved in order to ensure that the growth of the economic and economic benefits of which it has been divided in a similar way to those in the past, so that the growth of production will lead to the two factors that have mainly identified it, the increase in pay, or the actual cost of earnings, in people and short hours of work. Then how it will be divided must be revealed. The question remains interesting and full reason to examine the pros and cons of unfounded subsidies, as citizens' wages require. Personally, I'm thinking that irreprehensible progress, some kind of irrevocable community duty to further everyone, is not a good idea. I think we're turning our thinking about a community upside-down then. It is our duty as citizens of the country to promote a powerful and good society and to make our welfare system and a safety network useful to those in need and to make it powerful and effective for them. However, it is obvious that we eventually pay the account of that welfare community, and it is not particularly desirable to plan to provide all of us with some quality. Of course, one of us needs to earn the good, so to speak. According to this, we support that such an examination is made. This is a most interesting and beneficial discussion into future developments. I'm more likely to think of my section's proposal for an independent opinion, rather than to be referred to the Committee for the future simply because I believe that this is a well-defined debate, the questions presented, the information that are well-defined and that requires the access of more parties, e.g. The labour market body, for such work. Thus, this may not be particularly suitable for the very wide and undefined work of the future committee when it is clear that the subject here is clear and simple. Therefore, I think it would be more prudent to accept the proposal of the smaller section that the case will be referred to a social and equal minister in consultation with a financial and economic minister and they would simply be assigned to appoint for this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u10	A respectable president. If there is anything to say about this, then it can be said that the future will not be like the times of the day, just as the times of the day are not like the past. However, there have been a number of issues in the council that have developed regarding the future. The other day, we were agreeing to digital carpenters. There is a synopsis proposal to examine the effects of carnivores on the future economy. And then there's usually the systems, like the cot. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson talked about it. Of course, it's about that we need to examine all our systems. The interpretation proposal is also about looking at the tax system, definitely. It's inevitable. There is one thing that we need to understand in the overall context that we only come to the previous pages. It's a lifetime of work. It has always been said: Yes, new technologies have been replaced by old jobs, but new jobs were replaced. Yes, it is true, but their working days were simply shorter than older because new technologies for their new jobs come faster and faster. So it ends with the software and technology that we can solve new jobs faster than we can educate people. So where are we? In the years to come, we need to understand the role of machines and software and what work they can do, and what is the role of humans in the economy that will ensure survival on this earth. That's really what it's all about, that we can keep in ourselves and on and a roof over our heads. It is based on everything we need, and that is what most of our basics are. But this is not incompatible with modern times. We're here to discuss a lot of systems with no impairment. We're talking about how we're not going to reduce disability or pension because of earning a mate and the like, because of work and so on. There's no other discussion than the irresistibly shallow forward, forward without any kind of impairment here and there. This is, in fact, much more modern - day matters than we realize. There's been a review of the tax system that would be a clever idea to have an expedite character discount. It was the policy of several classes for these elections. A personal discount is nothing more than an irresistibly shallow advance. It's not as far away from us as this. I find a greater part's proposal, to refer it to the government and the Committee for the future, just fine. But I also think she's a little weird. First of all, this is a synonym that we would agree to and put before the government. However, this is a dismissal to the government. I can't quite figure it out. All right, maybe there's some technical difference over there. In the end, however, the future committee will need exactly the information required by the Parliament's decision. After all, we need to reach whatever goals are proposed in the Senate, so we should go to the government, just with the approval of the Congress instead of a release to the government and to any future commission -- Yes, if you understand what bothers me in this. In terms of the changes in the tax system and the exchange that was introduced earlier, I think it will be of utmost importance in the future which stakeholders will be here at the council to determine exactly how the future taxation changes will come to be. Will we be more concerned with changing the tax system toward these products or not? There I believe that certain stakeholders will encourage us in one direction rather than in another, depending on who they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u11	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct child law change, No. 76/2006, with subsequent adjustments to the policy of paternity. It's from a major welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter and received reviews from the Children's Department, Child Welfare, Parents Equal Court, Iceland's Human Rights Office and Children's Directors. The bill suggests that a person who thinks he is a father of a child can freely appeal to the subject of paternity unless it is a child of two women conceived in ART procedures. So the bill is designed to secure even more the right of a child to recognize his parents according to Article 1. Children's songs, as well as 7th pars. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which was legalized in 2013 Eight. The contract is stipulated by Member States to respect the child's right to maintain the individual identity, including their state, name, and family ties. The contract further says that children will be guaranteed to be separated from their parents only if their well - being is guaranteed in no other way and that a child who does not grow up with both parents has the right to associate with them regularly unless it is contrary to their interests. The majority of the reasons are that decisions about child care are taken in terms of what is best for the child and that a child has the right to express himself according to age and development. The principles set out in the children's covenants are relevant to matters that concern children and that are legalized here. It is evident, therefore, that they also apply in family matters, and the courts would dismiss unfounded cases of judgment. The principles also ensure that in other parts of the North countries, they also have a validated child contract. The committee discussed the position of children conceived with a donor seed. This is stated in Article 4. Section 6. (a) What is the significance of the term "seed "? (b) What is the significance of the term "seed "? The bill suggests that if a child has two mothers after a assisted reproductive technology program, it will not be appealing to a father's case, such as 2 mg. 6th ystem, but not refer to other conditions where the donor seed has been used. The majority of the items are to be held in 4 mg. Section 6. Even so, while not being able to appeal to family matters, he gave his sperm to a woman with whom he is not married and who is not married. Many reporters pointed out that there appeared to be a right and discrimination by family type. It is necessary that families do not have to live with the uncertainty and insecurity that result from being able to always expect the sperm donor to claim the baby. The majority of the rights to make such a trial cannot be in harmony with the interests of the children and the need for the law to be clear on this subject. Therefore, the more part makes adjustments to make this correction and to eliminate any doubt about that point. This adjustment can be found in a special document that can be studied. I also wanted to know that this will answer what was stated in the court of the Supreme Court No. 419/2200, but in paediatric law No. 20/192 was presented as a language of birth limited to the child himself or to the mother of the child under that judgment. The judges thought that this limitation to 70 C.E. was limited. The Constitution, like 6. European Convention on Human Rights, 70th C.E. An independent rule that the general right of a man to plead his case under the courts and all restrictions on this principle would have to be explained in the light of that principle. Based on an equal rule 65 C. The Constitution on the ban on discrimination did not consider the Supreme Court of the Children's Common Code based on objective views, pointing to the interests of society in general, and particularly the interests of the child because its fatherhood is properly expressed and determined. Then I'd like to point out that we have legalized the children's covenant ever since that. Under the majority opinion, write why. The members of Halldóra Mogensen, chairman of the welfare committee, who stands here, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, Árnadóttir Kolbrönóttir Aarnadótir, and Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u12	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee party I'd like to go along with. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson on welfare committee. It's a bit different, but it's not money on our position in the smaller parts and the greater parts. We support the primary objective of the case, but we would like to take a little more careful approach to the earth as we discussed the Committee's discussion that there is a significant change in child - law terms that covered the vital interests of children, it would be necessary to plan for a wide range of preparation and to work together with professional and stakeholders and assessment of the impact of such changes. In view of this, we suggest that the bill be referred to the government for further implementation rather than the complete payment of the council at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u13	Mr. President. The one that stands here and put this bill on it must be said, as it is, if we succeed in accepting it at the Council is a turning point, a huge justice for the children of this country. This is, not the right of fathers or the right of mothers, but the basic right of children to know their origin. As with the past, various views were presented to the committee. This is not the first time the case has been delivered, but for the first time it reaches this far. For some reason, the matter has not been prioritised in the progress of the council. The matter has been discussed at the council before, and previously there have been reviews of various sources, agents of children, children's boyfriends, and a number of others who are celebrating the bill because there is a great fundamental difference in the life of a child. There are some comments, as well as comments. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, worth wondering. They are concerned about the unfounded terms as well as the fundamental changes that are not in harmony with what is commonly practiced in other parts of the North countries. For that, I'd like to point out that in 1 5. Children's law is clearly stated that if an anthropological investigation is required to examine the fatherhood of a child, a judge's decision must be made. If a guardian on such a case objects that such a investigation is being conducted because there is no chance that the child's father would be a judge, then there is a lawsuit. If there is an unfounded case of action, if it is someone who is completely appealing to a case, without any cause, if the person has never been at the mother's or otherwise, the case is simply dismissed. Then the matter is canceled and the requirement for a human cytogenetic investigation, a DNA assay as called in the everyday language, simply rejected, and the case falls apart. We need not worry that individuals who are not thinking about the interests of a child will go out and do some sort of assault on courts to get in the way. Today, a man who believes he is the father of a child can always appeal to the matter. He can run a policy and start the case. A person who has been protected has to be warned and for the lack of membership insists on acquiesc because the responsible male is not involved in the case. Today, it is possible to get in the way and be bored. In this matter it is that if the child is a father, the person who thinks he is the father of a child can appeal to a matter for correction on the part of a father. Of course it's a prince thing, and with all my heart, if the council succeeds in bringing it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u14	Mr. President. I would like to comment on this fine subject. I'm an emissary officer on the welfare committee who declared myself acceptable to the greater part. When a meeting was discussed, visitors came before the committee and were delighted to see how consistent they were in their presentation. As noted in the case of a layman, w. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, was amongst others. discuss the position of children conceived with a donor seed. The reviews of several parties, e.g. Children's Protection Agency, saying that they felt that there was no need to open the matter too much and were concerned about the interests of families where individuals had given seeds, that they could have such an opening of the language of the family. Naturally, it was unacceptable, not in harmony with what was planned or the words being spoken. It is well considered in the committee's opinion of how this is responded, and it is a very good step. I agree with what has been said that if the bill is adopted at the council, there is a turning point in the matter of justice for the children of this country. I'd like to, without further saying it, to say one more thing. We are clearly speaking of right children, but it is also okay and simply positive and wonderful to see that men are also involved in the right thing to do. We know this as parents. To have the unfounded right now, hold a subject and reason, to appeal to such a matter, of course, is primarily in the interests of children, but I rejoice that there will be a legal hearing for children and men, that if there is a means of this kind, this bill will be a law. I wanted to make that point because even though we all know where the big goal is, it's also extremely important, and I'm just celebrating it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u15	Mr. President. Briefly on this issue. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. It has been brought on by the exception of signed and corrected mistakes, which were made in the process of legalization, basically two years ago. I can't compliment myself on having figured it out by myself, but it was an alert law student reading for a test and seeing that there were errors in the law that needed to be corrected. Thanks to him for that. This reminds us once again how important it is to be careful when making laws, both in the council and in the council, to be very careful. Of course, failures can always occur, and cannot be totally excluded, but there is no improvement in the speed and time - wasting treatment. Mistakes can be costly. In this case, they will be corrected before they can cause a legal problem and should be welcomed, but let us try to be more careful in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u16	Mr. President. I recommend a change of motion to a bill to legalize evasion of the Council of Mensia. Change is very simple. It just adds to the many good things the bill does, i.e. that Congress and Minister's salary accompany pay development. This time, I'm only talking about the salary of senators and Ministers, I've made many adjustments and offered suggestions on how to conduct a case on a committee when the Board of Elders was changed a year ago that this would apply to all those who fall under the advice of men. Now, I'm going to make a last attempt to make a change in the proposal that Congress and Minister's salary, only theirs, should follow salary development from 2013, 70% of the labour market's pay market. That's the time. If you are to be reasonable in not disrupting the collective agreements of the majority of employees, you will forgive, do not even cause the risk of disrupting the collective agreements of the majority of the employees, then the time will need to be determined. This is our last attempt to comply with the general salary development of the majority of the employees, but, as the advice on dressers back then, we were raised at the elected date of 2016 in Congress, Minister, and others, it was far beyond that. There is now a legal case. My dear and VR on the decision of the Council of Elders to be taken on Day 2016 was taken before, the court has begun. It began naturally that right before the weekend, the State requested that this case be dismissed. People can keep watching them. The decision will be made whether to dismiss the case or to continue with it. It will be this time in June, July, about the month. Other than that, there's a lot of good things about the bill. We just cross it. It violates the law of advice that, in our opinion, has been in violation of its decision - making laws. That's good. But, hey. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, my colleague, Pirati, has pointed out that this could mean it, however, i.e. If a advice board is submitted and the pay development of senators and Ministers and others under the advice will follow the median pay experience of public employees who are good, it could mean, however, that the decision eventually will be taken into account. Then the legislatator's temptation might raise his salary a little. Let us take special note of this. And when this is taken back in the fall - for this is done in a hurry, to lower the resources - some continued decision on how these matters should be handled, let us watch that the end of the shooting is in order, for then funds will be submitted. And let us not get the sense of it, so that members of the Parliament could use the temptation to raise their own wages. That would be a very bad development. Other than that, I am relatively content and again direct the people to observe the court case in which we charged removing the decision of the Council of Elders to raise the salary of Congress and Ministers on the Day of 2016. As I say, there will be some time at the end of a month, most likely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u17	A respectable president. On the basis of the criteria given in the bill's report on the arrangement that is subsequently proposed, it appears that the centenarians and others will be paid by law. This means that the senators have to vote on it when they're going to raise. No matter what support there may be, this means in action that members of the Parliament are making their pay. It makes the responsibility perfectly clear where it lies, which is nothing bad for itself. But it will, in fact, be very interesting and in part a setback, I would count, to the past time, to end up in very bad decisions about your own salary, salary and terms for members of Congress, e.g. with this notorious retirement bill adopted in 2003 or what it was. While we imagine good at the coals, getting rid of this evil dresser body, which has just recently been referred to in the media and elsewhere - the decisions that have recently been made have not been to help with the present conditions - it does not necessarily mean that the things that are taking over are better, just that there is not necessarily any change. The idea of the Council is still absolutely right, but I think we should take on and be together to hire a job by law. It is strictly legal that advice should follow general pay development. The proposal that is presented here is to follow the average public staff. There's nothing to say that a fool's advice can't just do it too. Why, then, do we especially need to vote on or on those conditions? Why is it not better that a dresser's advice be made to abide by the law, and when it does not, as it obviously was here in 2016, about elections, where there was definitely more than general pay development, why does the General Assembly not accept it? I don't understand. I just want to show you how it's done elsewhere. In Britain there is a special agency that was set up in the wake of many unfortunate incidents involving the work of members of Congress, where it was found that members of the Parliament were drawing in at least a number of costs that were not justified at all. It was set up an institution that observed what the senators were using their work expenses, etc., regardless of their cost. That institution also makes a decision regarding the raises in the Senate. The same organisation as has been monitoring whether or not decisions are being made on the basis of the purchase and election of members of Congress. It may not be appropriate to have this exactly in the same place, to have decision and observation authority in the same place, but it is closer to one responsibility. To make the decision, to know what it is, and to be able to keep a proper eye on that decision without any interpretation, whether a dresser's authority is or not, or something like it, that seems to be an argument between the counsellor and the dresser's advice. It would be most beneficial if there was no possibility of such a misunderstanding about decisions made about pay and monitoring the costs involved. Yes, it is fine to lay a advice, at least as it has been, but that does not mean that we will get the best solution thereafter. We need to be very alert so that we do not fall into the same temptation that we have done in recent decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u18	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the death of a law of dressers, No. 130/2016, with subsequent changes. The majority of the Economic and Business Committees have come up with it and was briefly discussed in the 1st. It's not a personal opinion, but I think it's a reason to state support for the case. As it is noted, on February 15 of the past year, a task force produced a report that included some suggestions. in a paper with the bill. I believe that the anxieties men have raised for the future, i.e. what happens when the advice of a man goes away is understandable but unnecessary. In the light of history, they are understandable. The previous decision by the Cathedral Council has repeatedly caused a wolf's voice in the country, which is precisely why the requirement for this arrangement is laid down in the community, and that is, in fact, what the work force suggests. The task force then suggests, though not providing a personal bill, into seven numbered teams how they feel it is best for the future to be in charge of the salary of these officials. Let us also see that while it was in a natural sense that it was merely the employees of whom the Board of Elders has ruled, many members of the community, most often elected agents, i.e. The elected local and regional representatives, actually used the Commission's decision to resist the decisions for the remunerations that have been used in the rural community. This has also produced a great pack of wolves within the countryside, which again means that there is actually a larger group underneath, but it may seem at first. I think it is very important that we make the decision that will be settled in the future. There I feel that if you're well fit in with a minister's group, you'll have to trust that a bill will appear in the fall and take care of these matters. In the strength of that trust, I suggest that the matter be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u19	Mr. President. I bring here an opinion of the bill for the diving process. I guess there are few senators who have experience with diving in this room, I'm not one of them. We're doing the best we can. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted Björn Freyr Björnsson from the Department of Transport and Division, Einar Á.E. Sæmundsenur and Lilja Jónasdóttir's daughter from the National Park on the Þingra fields and Kristín Helga Markúsdóttir, Ólafur Briem, and Magnús Dige Baldursson from the Group of Nations. The committee also received reviews from Dive.is, National Guard and National Park on the Þingurs and House of Corporates. The bill suggests that instead of current law no. 31/1996, about the dive. An enforcing submerge is limited to a permit for industry. On the other hand, the value range of the bill is more open and can be a source of enthusiasm. It was noted that the boundaries of the law had to be clearly defined and that they covered both deep depth and superficial depth, or snork, as it is called. The committee takes the importance of a new scuba law using aerosol mask, i.e. To this above-mentioned snork, and also a snorkeling, which is a deep dive without a mask and air source. So the committee suggests that these views will be met by a change in the definition of the dive and the addition of the definition of scuba diving equipment. The need to set the requirements for interested people to meet in order to keep the dive and to ensure that the instructors and other students who conducted teaching will make sure that the interested person fulfilled them. The committee agrees with these views and suggests that there will be an improvement in the conditions for the pursuit of enthusiasm. Commenting on the matter, reviews were critical that there was a law - enforcement check at the hands of a law firm. It was noted that perhaps others were more qualified to perform field testing than a seeing room. The committee agrees with these views too, but it is still important that the Agency be kept in close proximity, but it also suggests that there are some adjustments. The committee received comments from the DDP research committee on wording in 2 mg. Section 15. The bill for which the results of the police investigation are to be sent to the transport accidents research Committee for reviews and opinions. In view of the self - examination committee, it would be very difficult for her to give her opinion of something that she would not have examined herself. The committee agrees with these views and suggests that there will be no doubt that the research committee of transport accidents will test the occurrence of diving accidents. Such tests are independent of police research and are based on special requirements. There is an adjustment here in the process. Ordered warrant for 16. is widespread and encourages the Commission to provide clear guidelines for the monitoring of scuba equipment, the procedures of tourism companies that sell access to scuba diving and the environmental burden of diving sites. This means that there are different parties. The Committee considers the need for those who intend to dive outside the defined service areas, such as Silfra and Davidgrey at the Þingur, to report the proposed scuba diving, and to have appropriate permission where appropriate. It refers to areas owned, parks, and peaceful territory, and places in the wilderness, far away from there. Thus, it is said to remind us that at times people are diving in such places as the Sea of Langas, or Lake of Alcohol, and other such places. The relevant members of the Member States will be required in regulations such as the Environment Agency, Grouping Agency, Landsbourg and police in the district. The examples of similar reports are well - known, such as reports to the land cover travel in wide seas or mountains, and long walks or skiing in the wilderness. In view of the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Vilhjálmur Árnason was away from the hearing. Under the committee's opinion of literature, in addition to me, Bergþór Ólason, chairman of the Committee, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Linniika Sævarsdóttir Anna and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfótótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u20	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party with a motion-changing proposal for a decision-making strategy for 2018-2024. The suggestion itself is on the edge. 690 and the Committee's opinion, along with the change in the budget. 1124. This opinion comes from a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee. The committee has reviewed the matter, discussed it, and attended a visitor's meeting, and reviewed the 14 reviews received from various sources. I do not intend to comment here on the role of a strategy, but in the proposed motion, based language is defined as all the subjects that influence quality of life and the competitiveness of part of the country, such as residence, employment and innovation. The suggestion is given in four chapters or sections, and the first part deals with the future vision and subject, and it is a short limitation. One is about goals, priorities, and standards, and that part is trident. The third part deals with integrating with other policies and programmes, and in the fourth part, a plan of action is set out in which various projects of the programme are defined. The majority do not suggest significant changes in the schedule, but there are small adjustments in the three chapters, none of which focus on the effectiveness programme. The majority of them consider it a positive change that the available suggestions are for most activities in IV. Section 2, show how the work of the project will be measured. It then identifies a candidate for action and provides examples of partners that are considered by the majority to improve and enhance the clarity of the programme and help follow up with it. The same is true of the separation of each action in time. In addition, regular reporting to the General on the progress of the proposal is assured. The majority hope that change will lead to a better, more visible, result in success of the building project. The majority stress that the ECSA database of Iceland will be used systematically to support the same region and that special emphasis is put on supporting theisation plan, i.e. areas of long - term decrease in employment, unemployment, and monotonousness. The committee commented on the wording of chapter I, on the future vision and subject, and suggested a small change in wording thereafter from that indication. That change is primarily an improvement in wording, but the content and outlook do not change. I just want to read the sentence as it reads in the editer: ▪ In all parts of the country, there will be flourishing settlements and strong urban areas that will contribute to the improved standard of living for the country, with the most equal access to basic services and employment tools regardless of the economy and habitats. Other than that, in chapter I, minor adjustments are made. In accordance with guidelines and application programmes, a great deal shall be agreed with the preparation of the programme. It was noted on the committee's meetings that the discussion had been extensive, as expected. In general, how would you express your feelings about the speakers with increased consultations? The majority consider the change in arrangement of the strategy to be an example, though it is always possible to do better. Thus, the majority believe that it is important that national institutions in the country that can become active participants in the implementation of their programme are included in the development process. For example, would such consultation take place in the field of consultation and would be normal, rather than passing through the territory of counsel? At that time, the Committee noted that increasing the consultation and conversation between the Agency, Iceland's Farmer Association and others involved in the implementation of agricultural contracts, including In order to improve harmonisation between structural measures in livestock contracts and based programmes. An opportunity was also given to link the Agricultural Fund more closely to urbanisation. Then it was found in the Committee that all projects in the proposal have received a positive review in the consultation process, i.e. The actions of the Action Programme. The Council and other executives would be aware of each task they face and many potential partners. The intention is among the execution and partnerships to perform the tasks. They urged that the proposal be accepted as soon as possible so that individual projects would be started. Then only about partners: Within each procedure of the proposal, there are cases of partners in the project, and the Committee suggests in a few cases that partners are added to increase the likelihood that the opinions and expertise of certain parties will be useful in the implementation of the programme. Examples of these partners are Iceland's Institute of Micro-Environment, Controversy, Forest, Environment and Land healing. Then the commission discussed funding and that the funding of the individual strategy was not always clear enough. As shown in a paper with the Parliament's resolutions, the funding of three types of funding is complete: the embezzlement of settlements, subsidies of urbanity, and the financial resources of the relevant category, and then the complete funding of the local mercenaries. Then there are some actions that are not expected to be significant costs. The committee called for additional information on funding, and it is clear that the cost of the 54 operation is considerably higher than the financial resources of the urban population. By integrating based planning with other public plans, measures can be financed either by the financial rights of the relevant lawsuit group alone or by the co-financing of the Party and the settlements. The majority stress that the plan will be fully financed and that during the continuing development of a new project, there will be an effort to increase the transparency of projects in financing. This will follow because the General has agreed to the program, the cost assessment and plan will be completed before each operation. As a result of a joint plan, the link between Iceland's adaptation and adaptation measures has been discussed in connection with climate change and suggests a slight change to increase the focus on these relationships. The more important thing is that Iceland's commitment to the Paris Convention will be guided by the implementation of a groundwork programme. It is also important that the objective of the programme is not only adjusted for climate change but also essential counter measures to help combat climate change. Then, in particular, the majority stress that different climate-related schemes will be integrated in the work programme, such as the national woodforestation programmes, farmers' plans for carbon balance, public transport development and use of ecological energy. The majority of the committee contributes to a new objective of the programme in order to increase the emphasis on forestry and suggest that forestry be promoted as a sector with emphasis on national development, forestry, and the development of forest products. Finally, the majority of the items mentioned were presented with helpful tips that may be used during the implementation of the based programme, including Health, education and energy issues. According to the above, the more part would suggest that the proposal be accepted by means of the following adjustment made. Under the writings of Director Bergþór Ólason, President Jón Árnason, Foye Brynjólfsdóttir Brrynjörnótttirsson, Vilhjálmur Trausti Guðmundsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir Helgaótir, Jón Gunnssson 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. [[The president calls.]] Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u21	A respectable president. I hereby recommend my share of the environment and transport committees with a modification form in a policy-making strategy for 2018-2024, to be found on deck. 1134. A smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee considers it necessary for the woodforestation to be written into the forestry programme in a more decisive way than expected in the suggestion of a greater part. The minority, however, clearly states that it supports the majority of parts in other respects, except when it becomes part of the forestry programme. The minority feels that forestry goals need to be clearer and suggest that forestry will become a major product, thus laying the basis for the future's forest to be the foundation for the gift, the environmental and commercial sectors of this country. In addition, the smaller part considers that a special forestry strategy needs to be written into theisation programme in order to identify the measures needed to achieve the objectives, who is responsible for the project, and who are partners in it. This is essential so that preparation can be started with the parties as soon as possible. Targets will not be reached in terms of the memory of the part unless at least 12 million trees will be planted each year from 223 C.E. onward. To achieve this, it is necessary to build on the next five years a place to grow trees for planting, which takes several years to achieve that extent. Therefore, it is urgent that you immediately begin to set your goal in order to achieve it at the appointed time. The proposal of the part's increased emphasis on forestry in a regional strategy is well thought to be a greater part of the budgetary proposal for a judicial resolution of a financial programme, which, among other things, says on the 17 Environmental Issues, by permission of the President: To meet the objective of the matter, large - scale donations are expected. Here, the focus of the government on the environment and the improvement in that area is made clear. The majority stress the importance of forestry priorities. By the turn of the century, when national deforestation laws were adopted, the law set out to grow forests in 5% lowlands about 215,500 hectares before 2040. The target will not be reached until 2130, or after a hundred and twelve years, according to the current pace of this project. Today, 3.1 million plants are planted each year. In 2055, after 37 years, a far more predictable future than 112 years mentioned, if the rate of construction was to be 4 and every year for plant development were to exceed 12 million plants. Newforestation by self-sustained forest plants and the recovery of birch forests is a well-based strategy in terms of the reduction of the share. Forest campaigns in the last decades of the 20th century have already begun to contribute income and materials to industry and building, thus saving the currency for national preparation. All that is done in forestry brings back much back the next few years and decades. Mr. President. For centuries, the inhabitants of this country have lived on tracks that have been swinging after a year's journey. At present, prosperity in the country is based on a few hearings about the growth of tourism, which no one knows when it will be. The future forests are a resource that is not relatively sensitive to environmental fluctuations, and thus the forests can lay the ground for long future on a stable commercial route across the country. Forests start to create employment and profit as soon as their gauze begins. The forestry environment does not have to multiply here on both the carbon binding of forests, as well as on the forest's role in inhibiting further emissions in its neighborhood, not to mention their curfew values and climate change for the better of nearby land areas. Of course, it is not an acceptable nation whose conscience has decommissioned the forest of land at the land's mines when it is time to have an opportunity to restore the fragments of the forests that covered the land during land mines. The future forestry, in particular, strengthens rural areas, and provides the national taxpayer as the process goes on. Woodforest also increases farm value and increases farmers'credit ratings. Foresting allows for an increased potential for building new businesses in rural areas, where sectoral activities grow and flourish as raw materials begin to drift out of the forests. This forest is unnamed to add farm and farm conditions for farming and farm animals to shelter in forests and under safety belts. In addition to the four-fold new forest development programme in Iceland, national and national forestry programmes must be implemented in cooperation with countries and communities. From the above point of view, the smaller item suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment indicated in the Senate document: 1st That they will set up new goals in II. section on massive forestry. 2. That there will be a new operation in VI. the part on the forest development process in which operations are recommended so that 12 million trees can be planted each year starting in 1923 to achieve the aim of the proposal. The success of the project will be measured by the number of planted trees and the number of foresting projects over the period, the responsibility for the actions of the Environment and Resource Ministry, the developer will be the management, and examples of partners are landowners, rural areas and forestry parts. Then the operation will be funded by the Environment and Resource Ministry. Under my opinion, the one here writes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u22	Mr. President. We're here to deal with a policy-making strategy of 2018◯2024. As I've established before, a geographic policy is a basic policy in the state's work and so important that its preparation is careful and closely followed. Actually, I would have liked to see some more changes, e.g. in terms of increased support for innovation over the head, and perhaps clearer paths regarding the flight. Still, there are many good goals and privileges. I'm still a little worried that in this program, as if you'd like to burn with your previous strategy, there's more beautiful words than there's less to the project and the follow-up. I hope you find out I'm just wrong. In terms of the implementation, it is in my opinion that the national sector and the network of employment in the Member States is still more desirable in preparing and implementing a rural strategy. It is thus important to take into account the national and national application programmes and their other policies to form regional programmes and DMP programmes. I believe that increasing cooperation with the parts of the country would make such harmony easier. In this way, it would also be possible to examine whether it was not simply natural to place increased power and increased support to the national part of the projection. I also wanted to wonder whether it was possible for me to do so. it should be more structured with regard to the construction and services of the country, i.e. The big picture, while smaller projects were implemented in each part of the country. I think the largest structure is in fact ensuring access to infrastructure and services, such as transport, electricity, etc., and should have a built-in plan e.g. To a greater extent, look at these factors, and then the parts of the country and its inhabitants can work on smaller projects. Mr. President. In Iceland, one of the largest settlements ever made was a decision to build Iceland's University in Reykjavík. I also want to say that it was a big decision to set up the University of Akureyri, which in recent years has proved itself truly. The importance of supporting the construction of the University of Akureyri and, in fact, university work in the whole of the country and in all areas has rarely been greater. The University of Akureyri is for example in the position that applications have increased by 30%, but unfortunately we want to burn that we are setting up fancy projects across the country, usually with the intention of supporting the settlements, but then we don't put money in the ones who will not be able to grow as they can. I really hope that this will not continue with the University of Akureyri and that it will be enabled to continue growing, both when it comes to a number of students and a number of subjects. Mr. President. Finally, I wanted to introduce to you that in the last days, the answers to my request for distribution have been being received from the emergency. Sadly, though, the answers that have been received have yet to be answered, my feeling is that the proportion of funding that goes outside the capital area is incompetent and even abnormally low. These figures confirm the importance of using the eyeglasses always on the nose, along with the pair of glasses, and of all decisions being considered based. So I believe the phrase that in all of the government's policy and strategy, there will be an impact on the development of individual communities and habitats, and the evaluation is particularly important, and I hope that the highest. Ministers will follow it closely in all government administrations so that this will be done in actuality and that we will see real changes in the attitude toward the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u23	Mr. President. I have to agree with the last speaker. I wholeheartedly agree with what was presented in her talk. Of course, it is for us to make sure that a structured plan will not be just a beautiful word on paper. Like what? Sadly, a senator said that over the years it has been too often that he has become demeaning. There's something that I think we especially need to look at to be followed during this terms. There are a lot of things already going on in this huge plan. Most important, it holds hands with other programs, that they play together. I think that's what they're doing. In a national budget, we put emphasis on, including the rest of the budget. on forestry, because forestry was mentioned here, we have tips with it, etc. What I was wondering, because it's such a short time we have, this is an eternal task to define public jobs without a location. Have we not seen it for a long time? Somehow, they'll still decrease their numbers in the scattered areas. The last time I've seen it, I don't think we've had enough evidence. We need to keep a very close eye on this and follow through. It says in the proposal for the definition of performance transport without a location of 10% of all advertised jobs in councils and their institutions will be off-site in 2024◯ which also means that we should be briefed on the progress of the based programme. As members of Congress, we need to follow it in my opinion very well. It is also helpful to appreciate the benefits of putting down new activities that arise. Sad to say, too little has been done about it, and somehow they always argue that it is the best place in the capital area, even though we living in the scattered areas see many and a great opportunity for such institutions to be distributed. What I just want to come in is the student loan system, education, and other subjects that may have been limited in their discussions. To use the credit fund of Icelandic students to encourage scattered homes after education is completed. I think it's very important as soon as there's a way of studying, i.e. In the scattered parts thereof shall be more than they be, e.g. About college, especially in the East. And then we have to be extremely supportive of the University of Akureyri, Hólar, and other parts of the country. We can do so in many ways. Just like with the college and the ongoing education, increasing space for groups of students. This is one of the factors to be done so that there can be many cores that, although not in exactly the same location, can be made up of a single group of students. Or that there is more in one place and more in another, to consider moving between one another if you can speak somehow in that way. I'd like to mention that there are good plans here that matter, such as. Sports companies that have the longest way to go to ensure and support young people in sports. They need to meet that challenge. Costs are one of the factors that have provided them for cleaning, and even many sports events and games have been eliminated because they are so expensive. This is one of the things I think are important. What may be the core factor in this community plan is the Service Card which I think is one of the main issues, i.e. showing the access of the people of the country to a public service, which is some measure of the status and development of localities, so that we have a visual display of national access to the services of both public and private parties so that we can manage it better or more, rather, just defined that this is what we need to do. As I said earlier, much has started, telecommunication services, regional healings, and so forth, so that shopping and service can exist in the country, that is very important. And then, of course, the flight we've talked about as public transportation, electrical cleaning, etc. That can be counted for a long time. Some of this is being done well. We're about to finish, for example. ... intheexploitation project, and hopefully we'll be decommissioned soon. There are many things to take, but most of all, we need to make sure that we can follow through on this, that it becomes reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u24	A respectable president. We'll discuss a policy-making plan to the next six years. I want to celebrate her in particular. I agree with them. Councilmen who have spoken, Elíasdóttir the daughter of Elias, and Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. It's a pleasure, and it's a good thing that we can all agree to sign such a document because it's true whether we're talking about Reykjavík, Thors Harbor, Cape Hornfjordur, or Sufjördur. All of them are places that we would like to live. It matters, and all of us are involved in the way we plan and want to see this 103 yous. square miles of territory we live in here. But the above suggestion for a policy-making strategy says, by permission of the president: ▪ Its affairs will be integrated with other groups of subjects, as appropriate. This will be an impact on the development of individual communities and habitats and will be reviewed in all the policy and planning of the government. The main objective of the strategy must be to address the reductions in individual areas, monotonous employment life, technological changes and development and adaptations for individual sectores, adaptations due to climate change impacts, to facilitate transport and access to services, and to respond to harsh international competition for people and businesses. There will be a special emphasis on areas in which the feet of this context are fixed. It is positive to promote targeted measures in rural areas and to improve their effectiveness. Of course, the basic requirement is that funding is guaranteed for long - term survival. This is important. We can debate the emphasis and priority of projects, but their funding is basic. The current legal framework should ensure careful work practices and more coordination between public programmes. The Treaty specifically discusses community affairs, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ The land's productive land is flourishing. The people of the land are to have equal access to services, employment opportunities, and incomes throughout the country. It is a great project to cover national services, employment opportunities, and living incomes. A key element of this is the use of modern technology, or it is intended to produce a better standard of living for those living in the country. The fiber - opticisation provides an opportunity to introduce e.g. We do not necessarily have to find the bike in that relationship. Our cousins Danir offers such services, as well as Norwegians, and we just need to apply what has been well done in that area. Our cousins the Norwegians have taken action to attract young people to certain areas of life that have become less and more difficult to deal with. The Treaty mentioned that there will be benefits to using the student loan system to motivate people who want to settle abroad. There is also a plan that agencies are assigned to define and advertise jobs without location. It is also bad when we learn of it today, a few weeks ago or days ago, that there are reports in the Lands Bank that have a declared community responsibility policy. A bank claiming to be the bank of all the people of the country, owned by the state. This is very strange and inconsistencies with the Land Bank community policy, to reduce the number of employees in their branch offices across the country. They have advances in technology, but the whole banking operation is not intertwining; they would be very much concerned with carrying jobs and jobs that can be done without a location throughout the country. Technology, of course, throws as well across the country. I would also like to mention the Scottish route that underscores this and helps to make the flight public transportation. As soon as I welcome future regional policy plans, I'd like to encourage the government to take it into account with the coming budgets and budgets. If we don't, it's better at home than it is to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u25	A respectable president. It's fine, it's fine. It would be good to make some adjustments in the future, e.g. measured. There are many goals that are not set out for all aspects of our objective. It may be much more convenient, although it may not be stated specifically in the suggestion or in the form or in the form of, access to all the criteria is available in some way, presented in other data or something similar. If it's not too complicated, then it would be to include it in a report, the better. In general about innovation, it was shown in reviews that there is a particular loan problem and that it strengthens a new creation that is about to begin, not necessarily for a new creation that is going on. Then it would be convenient to create a new sponsorship, since those who are starting a new creation could gain strength, not just a loan. It also speaks of innovation in the food industry. It is a question of whether it needs to be confined to the food industry. We would like to highlight further and varied innovations in other areas, e.g. in technical and mental systems, which would encourage the environment around them as a matter of course. The senators talked about it earlier. Finally, with regard to flying projects, there is a problem with the lack of a owner's policy and the limitations of transporting funds between airports within the country. We need to examine all the air travel systems here as one system instead of using the size-separation efficiency of our whole air system. There is a great need for a presentation of plans for the future in these regional policies. I urge that more is being done. Let's do this a little better. This program is much better structured and much better than government policy in financial programs, much better and better equipped goals and standards. I'm just saying, more like this and the law of this bait, and we're fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u26	Mr. President. There are many things very interesting and good in the existing community plan, and we are discussing in the second place. I think it's important that plans like this be made and that they're safe. That may be what my criticism implies, but this is a very important step anyway. I'll even say it. Because, at the same time as we will discuss a groundwork plan, financial programmes that we have agreed on are being submitted, and particularly in the light of the criticism or the development of community-based reports. They have repeatedly pointed out that this is a fiscal treasure - there is a certain inexplicability regarding the financing, a natural key to financing. The responsibility and funding need to be totally clear, but certain factors are still being introduced that most of us here, I think, would like to take a firm note, but the financing has not been guaranteed at the same time. In part, this is also some wishes list showing that we have a measure of ambition in the country, which is important, but we must also be able to demonstrate how we are going to finance all of this. I'm going to tap on the other and those points at the time I have. I'd like to suggest that the proposal on this committee is a discussion of increased consultations with the National Farm Institute, Iceland's Farmer Association and others on the implementation of agricultural contracts. I'll agree with this. I think it's important that we take it harder than we did last time. I believe there is a fixed possibility, in fact, huge possibilities, that there is an application tool for the country through the agricultural agreements if you put it and you have the guts to put your priorities in your stock market agreements. I know of certain conversations and sometimes conflicts last year that people are not ready, e.g. to dare say where we're going to prioritize the sheep's flocks. Will we identify areas in the country that are more successful in expanding the flocks? There is a Westfjord. There are Northeast and other places suitable for the sheep trade. Then we can use it to further the settlements and areas, including them. in the context of the core plan? This is what I'd like to put out and agree that it needs to be. With regard to the agricultural fund, which is for many aspects of a remarkable fund, I would like to emphasize the concept and suggestions that have been prepared or spoken before, and I strongly speak for, to combine the agricultural industry fund, and to increase the value of seafood to one powerful source of food. I believe that way would increase the country's size, especially with innovation and research in mind. We could save a lot of money in their overbehaviouring, grossly corrosive look at a third of tens of millions. This could lead to an upbuilding project, a new development project in the country. I think we have to use every opportunity to unite ourselves, how we can do things better so that things will actually be done on the projects that are designed to build up in the country. I am convinced that one powerful source of food would be an enormous amount of strength, both to the coastal areas as well as to the agricultural areas of our Icelanders. I'd also like to point to something that's not mentioned in the community plan. Part of our work as a groundbreaking project was to build the settlements. We can see that the special market has succeeded, the export has done well, but proposals for the general population need to be better updated. It is a firm recommendation from rural communities, and especially from urbanised areas, that we are afraid to have a specific review of the general population of the country. These suggestions are also available. The most appealing thing to me is that they will increase the self - determination power of rural society in the country, the fragile settlement, especially those in need, regardless of what we would like to define, that the self - determination of rural society will be increased by a general review of the general population. This is a point I want, and I'd like to have had men take it out. I understand, Mr. President, that there is quite a free time, it's not quite ragged in five minutes, but I'm going to talk about a few more things, i.e. Remote health care. I think it's extremely important that we use technology, not only to promote innovation in the country, but also also to promote national service. That's what's so important and really fascinating about drawing up based maps, developing a policy-making plan until the next year, that we try to focus on how we can make sure that our service in the country will be the best, and that the standard of living will be the same. Part of it is using new technologies, not just promoting the telecommunications that have been extremely supportive for e.g. The southern West Coast, where an extension section was formed in the West. We can also see this happening in the Swamp Seas and in many areas where it is directly being accomplished, to promote and expand educational activities. That includes health care. We must promote more fully the support of our distant health care. This was being done in the government contract last year, but this has not been done. Mr. President. I must honestly say that, in my opinion, I am afraid of a certain degree now in the Ministry of Health for Service and of attending a ministry of private employment that the distant health care services do not develop as fast as possible because the Ministry is not ready to seek even. to private. It should not matter whether the State or the private government or service as long as it is good, if not better, through private hands and preferably less expensive than the government. Our focus is primarily on the ministry. I am convinced that if we take our telecommunications more closely and provide the people of the country with real health freedoms, where both public and private members can reach, I am convinced that this will lead to an increase in the quality of life in the entire country. Then, of course, many words can be said that we are implementing a structured program in the absence of the transport program. It's not even trying to show the cards properly. It is of utmost importance, as it is said here, that we make good use of the transport plan, not just in repairs, but in real development. And also that the management board has manpower to complete important barriers that are of great importance to the quality of life of its inhabitants. There are many examples, but perhaps the most intimate and most vivid of evidence is that the inhabitants of the country should not have to wait for years or even decades, such as. The inhabitants of the southern West have done so. Of course, it's time to take the road through Chets Forest as soon as possible. If there is anything missing, we simply go to the legislature board to cut down the existing knots and grant such mechanisms of implementation that have been in the system. There is much to discuss in this regard. There's one thing I'd like to point out that there's a lot of agreement here at the council, in my opinion, to try to promote and do better for the country. Building plans are a good and important step, but they are not exhaustive to bring about the best quality of life in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u27	The president takes soft hands on the bell and the time limit to this time, directing it to members of the council. that they are basically worth a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u28	A respectable president. Here we discuss a basic plan, and it is reasonable to think about many aspects of this discussion. It's a seven-year plan. I think she's ambitious. I've previously seen strategy that are also ambitious but have not followed as it should, unfortunately. But I think that preparation for this community plan is good, and many have come to it. This document shows that people can be confident that there are comparable basic services, health services, education opportunities, and everything modern - day families require in their society. I think it is important to have a good follow-up plan, to ensure that everything is successful, that aims are clear and clear who are responsible; that boxing and following closely with all the resources and all those who are expected to cooperate in implementing this structure. I am very pleased with what it shows to promote equality in farms and that living conditions can be comparable to those in the country and the opportunities for the people to build their own society. We know there's a lot of trouble today. I am deeply concerned about land areas where the population continues to decrease. It is evident in this synoptic decree that the West will stand out, that changes from 2010 to 2017 in urban development have been negative to 5.5%. The same can be said of the Northland West, where there is a reduction in these years by 4.5% and in the East there is a decrease of 0.6%. Other parts of the country are better off, but many things are just fine. A region such as Southnes is evidently making significant progress in employment and population development. It is no longer the unemployment problem that the region faced. Materially on this subject, I would like to say that there are, of course, these key factors that must remain so that families want to build their future and futures in the country. It's the basis for having access to a good core service, as mentioned earlier, that job opportunities are varied and transportation is good, that health and education are in order. That is why I like to think of increased emphasis on telecommunications. Increased emphasis is being made on making the flight public transportation. Next year, the so - called Scottish route is about to be adopted. The country is about to be completed in 2020, with 99% access to high - speed connections. Of course, there is a basis for building a wide range of activities around the country. The level of energy prices is a major factor in living in the capital area and in areas where there are cold areas and energy costs are the greatest. There we need to clean up and close our energy costs. As we have seen, there are communities that simply do not have normal road transport in their area. The southern part of the West and many rural areas, the urban population, and other locations; linking, connecting, and so on. It is all urban, and it is vital that these projects are closely followed. It's all regional issues that fit into a structured program. Therefore, it is important that the points listed here, 54 points to be carried out, follow financial factors. The budget for each year has been $3.3 billion secure, but it is not enough to ensure that other factors are funded as they should. This often overlaps with other lawsuits. I have high expectations for this groundwork to make possible an opportunity in the country and for the development of urban development to turn around with a positive sign.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u29	Mr. President. Thank you for this very important discussion. I may initially want to know that the Central Party has a specific core plan on its policy plan, highlighting it before the last General elections. That plan, called the whole country, involves thinking of the land as a whole or as a community. This involves making a total plan that will deal with all aspects of society and the vision we have for our country. We stress that different measures need to be adjusted so that one supports in the best way possible. Synchronization must take place from one place. It is also important that this is the case with a new country. This will help to prevent everyone from working in his own corner without perspective. Of course, as we all know, we need to invest in the whole country and turn our back on the offensive. I would like to discuss what is presented in the subsection of access to services. It discusses the national energy costs of homes to be equal. Of course, it is a very important project and an urgent interest concern for a large number of homes in the country that fan out their houses with electricity, which are about 30 percent of the world's population. 7% of the homes of the country used for electrical intercourse. However, I don't feel that in this council-student proposal how the government is going to level this energy cost. It's been done here, including in this hall, to my judgment, a mistake that has cost the country large sums of money when it comes to the heating cost of a house fueled by electricity. There I would like to mention a special approach to the European Union, which has had a major impact on the Icelandic electricity market and is actually marking the big lines of his organization. Unfortunately, the strong Icelandic characteristics of my opinion have not been maintained sufficiently when it comes to the introduction of EU initiatives through the EEA Convention, where the electricity issues are not excluded. I mention it when the government adopted the European Union's Directive to separate between sales and distribution of electricity in 2007. That famous decree had a wide impact here on the country. There was a switch between companies such as the Southern Heat Institute to energy production and electricity sales, and distribution. All of this meant great effort and cost. On the other hand, those who got the worst out of what I'd like to call the European Union's campaign of power, which the government didn't approve of, were just residents in the country, burning their home by electricity. In effect, overnight house - to - house heating electricity increased up to 100% because of this directive. It is imperative that governments map precisely what it takes to warm up homes in the country not living in a heat - repair system compared to those living in heat - management. It is vital that inhabitants of the country, who do not enjoy the quality of life that is unavoidable, sit at the same level as those who have heating. I'd like to encourage the government and the government to impress these matters. This is a very important matter of interest and community. I would like to emphasize at the end that the Central Party emphasizes that tourism development will be brief in cold areas. We also emphasized the importance of last elections not to repay a merit tax from an apartment building of projects in cold areas. We know that the structure of cold areas is much slower than that of the living population, for example. For heating and housing conditions, it's not the same. That's for sure. There we have certain ways that we can go to promote these areas and make the land a whole in many areas of the government. This is one of the things the Central Party has emphasized in community affairs. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir said earlier, how important it is that we promote our distant health care. It's a very important urban matter. Finally, I want to rejoice that soon the end of the fiber - optic development of the region is a very important matter of interest. Similarly, we need to improve and strengthen the effort to complete a three - phase electricity that unfortunately is not available to many inhabitants of the country. Mr. President. There are so many things to take, and I hope we all have good fortunes for the better farm conditions in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u30	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a decision-making strategy for 2018-2024. I'd like to run over this, take some points for. What a joy it is that these 52 highlights are made available to the Parliament's odor proposal! I just want to get to a few of them, and maybe add to the powder because I feel like I'm a little short. It is particularly enjoyable to know how successful Iceland's project has been with light - related projects, key projects in developed Iceland. We can see that at the end of the 2020 project, 99.9% of legal agencies and businesses with whole - wound farms or rural activities have at least 100 MB wireless connections. This has been proving to be good and fast in recent years and years. The work is doing well, and it probably has improved in recent years. I'm only going to mention the long - term health service. It's also very developing. I'd like to see that it evolved, for example. such as the Hospital in Akureyri and in the National Institutes of Health, allowing for the services of suitable areas and larger areas of territory through the long - term health services. That's a very important thing. Speaking of health care, I'd like to mention a point I feel very short in the plan to make clear, which is the availability of people from faraway capital, to Iceland's Land Hospital, our most powerful hospital, and then through the hospital. This is not much said, but it is key to our health care that there is a good access to the central hospital in Reykjavík. There, Reykjavík's airport plays a key role in getting people to the most powerful hospital. In addition, I present a general access to the government, education, health services, employment and public transportation in Iceland, which is the city airport. More may have been identified in these policies in the targeted strategy for the related issues. Thus, about 60 far away. a person living in the rural areas of the country's country is making use of the domestic flight as much as the 290 thousand in the country, which means that the population of the country flies five times more than the capital population, so this is the key in all of this. And then it's by strengthening the transport systems of electrical energy and increasing energy security, that's point B.b. in the schedule. There is a natural key to the future in securing and improving this system. Areas such as Eyjafjörður, Western Europe, Southnes have not been generally able to develop in rural development and strengthened themselves as a result of the lack of both energy security and energy concentrations into existing areas. In many areas during the past 10 to 15 years, complete resolution has been made. Later today, we will be better able to get into this with discussions about the construction of electrical energy systems. I'm gonna try to respect the time limit, obviously you have to go really fast on this. In many parts of this policy strategy, it is arranged to match the situation between international airports and to increase the number of airports or intermediate ports into the country. There are a few points taken. It is the growth and development of air development funds, the price of jet fuel, and such factors. It's a basic system and structure. There, Issua's tenant policy is immensely important, and we are likely to need to take that discussion later on when we have an opportunity and a better time. Just at the end, I want to come into the air of public transportation. It is coming on the Scottish route and building up the system that Scots built up in 2005 for their public transport systems and has proved to be extremely successful. Hopefully, we will be able to achieve that limit in the next few years to get this system in Iceland to promote the national and national transport systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u31	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Committee's bill to legalize the law on the remuneration of state funds, No. 88/1191, with subsequent changes, on visas for foreign agreements. It's from the Economic and Business Committee where I sat as a substitute the other day. The committee has discussed the matter and suggests that the bill will be passed on. Under the writings of Óli Ásgerður Kárason, Smári Mccarthy, Braudur Níelsson, Jón K.'s Gylfadóttir, Harðardóttir G. Hardydóttttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Alfölstein Sæmundsson. So controversial is that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u32	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee's list that changes the bill's proposal to legalize various legislations of anti-employment and tax evasion measures, tax control and tax research, increased information build-up, etc. The committee discussed the situation and obtained experts from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, tolls, and from the Group of Tourism and the National Association of Iceland to its own. First of all, the bill tells you about the change in 55. g. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003, which responds to ESA estimates from 7 April 2016... that the European Union legislation violates the EEA Convention. Second, this adjustment is suggested on page 7. Law on Official Pays, No. 45/1987, after the term "employee" occurs: or another person renting out workers. Third, there is a law on merit taxation, No. 50/1988, of the registration of foreign persons who sell services electronically to individuals in this country and fourth, of course, are proposed to make changes to Article 7. August), No. 88/2005, the calculation of the export fees of group vehicles temporarily exported to the country and enjoying tax benefits according to the article. The 1st paragraph. The bill is aimed at allowing the common taxation of the partner in the country and of the fixed work centres of a partner registered in Member States of EEA or EFTA or the Faeroe Islands. According to the Ministry's memo on the Committee, there was a misunderstanding that the directive was intended to allow a cross-border taxation of a partner. To justify this, the Ministry suggests that the wording of the A-ili. 1st Gr. The bill will be changed and the committee will make an adjustment. The Commission's review made it very critical that anti-refund measures are not taken further than those carried out in the bill. The committee's opinion gives special reference to a taxpayer, who I am not going to trace here in my speech rather than a suggestion of the committee's opinion. Other references support the lack of progress. As told by the German Union of Iceland, the U.S.A. that the relationship puts emphasis on achieving a complete approach to the subject in the pursuit of foreign companies, including those in the United States and other Member States. those who practice artificial construction, who do not have a competitive prelude to Icelandic companies or a threat to employment and their chosen employees. The Group of Travel Services suggests that there will be a meeting area of travel agencies, customs managers, government tax managers, tax investigators, employment agencies and police organisations to provide information and to cooperate on the monitoring and benefits of travel services in Iceland. The committee agrees that the bill has gone too soon to introduce anti-refund action. The Committee places great emphasis on the Ministry, i.e. The Ministry of Economics, follow the work that is started at the next step and put the bill in the coming fall, where it will be done beyond what is now being done. The Commission assumes that there will be a showdown for the head of state tax. They believe that the Commission is worthy to examine future ideas on the formation of a meeting site and in particular consider that a flow of information is paid for between the relevant public bodies, such as the labour agency, the workforce managers and the tax and customs authorities. According to the above, and to encourage the Commission to state that there will be no room for local anti- fiscal efforts, the Commission suggests that the bill will be accepted with the proposed changes made by the Committee's opinion. This is signed in advance by a daughter of Harðardóttir G.. She intends to make an announcement. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under the committee is the writer of Óli Björn Kárason, Brabbur Níelsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Þórstein Sæmundsson, and Air K. Gylfadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u33	Mr. President. I decided to be on this committee party on a short notice that I'm going to explain. It is not because I have no objection to what the bill says or against the change, far from it. On the other hand, this is a gross dose, and the headline in the case, anti-employment and tax evasion measures, intensified tax control and tax research, increased intelligence, etc., is a huge headline for such small steps in this direction. The committee agrees, as noted in the case of the day. The manager before, making sure that the execution of the Commission goes further and handles these matters and does so as soon as possible, and did not just argue that the tax and tax evasion initiatives have now been approved, for tax control and tax frauds have not yet been established. It needs to be done better. I'm highlighting it here, and that explains my warning, but of course I'll be supporting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u34	V.E.G. President. As noted earlier, I am one of the people involved. Of course, I support trying to get on with the tax fraud as much as possible. But it's also true that this bill is running a lot, and that's why I come up here to sharpen us all in the pursuit of financial and economic services to come right back on the autumn days forward with a bill where the scores are larger than here. I take very seriously the comments and tips given. The Economic and Business Committee, from the head of state tax, ASI and the Traveller Association. I want to remind you that this weekend, particularly in the capital area, has been given a very good step in intensifying the surveillance of a so-called airbub site. I am happy because it is a matter that I have cared for for for for five years and that was repeated. Now, I'm just hoping that the subsequent action announced in the commission I'm supposed to take won't take five years. That's why I'm saying that the council now needs to send them a clear message to those who are working on more billing on these issues that we need to make sure those pledges are going to work. We also need to be careful that when we go into the budget in the fall, those in charge are going to earn enough money to maintain a real check. There's been a lot of talk that Iceland's black economy is big. Now, I'm not going to take special terms for the figures that have been most in the discussion, but while we share in them with two or three, it is obvious that there is still much to do in collecting the expenses that have truly been submitted and at the same time to ensure that the people who are doing business in Iceland are equal in size, i.e. that we are not, by failing to observe, or by not allowing surveillance to do our job, in itself saluting those who sail beneath the surface, not giving up their income, and not paying off. These are the competitive foundations of an enterprise, and we are naturally forbidden to contribute to less competitiveness. We have to keep government laws in this country. We have an order to live by. We need to stand by the fact that men in the same industry are equally employed. Of course, I'll support the bill, and I'll be happy to do it. I just wanted to add to the fact that even if a piece is half past the sea, it's a long way off with the case coming to the place where it belongs to my judgment and others in this country. So I'm still saying, let's keep an eye on the autumn days when there's a more dramatic bill on the same subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u35	A respectable president. I present the General and Education Committee's opinion of a bill to correct the change in Icelandic Civil Rights Act and a change in children's law in terms of loss of citizenship. The nominee is quite thorough, and I'm only referring to it, but it's on a spell. 1155. I'm just going to kill on the main issue of this matter. The Commission has discussed the bill and had it meet with Bryndís Helgadóttir, the Fanney Kristjana Fenger, and the Berglind Ester of the Inga of Justice, Stella Áslaug's Björk from the Children's Secret Service, Sveinsdóttir Sif Valdimarsdóttir from the Children's Children's Institute of Childhood, Ástríður Jóhannesdóttir from Iceland's Human Rights Office, Hoffritz Helga fróndorð, and Vilborg Sveinsson from Íris Sindradóttir from Iceland and Ejörnímjörnóðóðnar. There were reports from Children's Health Services, the Family Committee for Mosfellstown, the National Rights Office for Human Rights, Personal Protection, the Red Cross in Iceland, the Children's Agent and Foreign Institute. The bill suggests a change in the law on Icelandic civil rights in the light of the preparation of two UN Constitution agreements, from 1954 of the Convention on Civility, on the other hand, to the legal status of nonpolitical individuals and to the 1961 Convention to reduce the number of stateless persons, but also to the recommendation of the United Nations Refugee Organization for reducing those who have no citizenship. In addition, minor changes are proposed primarily for the management of the case and for the changes in child law due to the technical development of abroad. In the treatment of the case, a viewpoint on the need for wording was made clear that a child automatically became subject to birth, especially in cases where a state does not permit double the citizenship. The committee noted that the wording "stabbles " is in harmony with current phrases. Then the change is to balance the right of all children regardless of their birthplace and whether parents have married. Therefore, the committee feels that it is not desirable to apply specifically for citizenship, as it would require determining whether the person should be automatically received a citizen's rights, by announcement or by application. Also on the rights of the committee that the bill aims to include to make it easier for those who don't have citizens to gain citizenship. As I say, I'm not going to review all the factors of this case. There is a fairly detailed explanation for those in the committee view I referred to earlier and on the subject. 1155. However, I would like to see that the bill suggests a change in the children's law that foreign - language ARTs will be considered valid here in the country if Iceland's National Registry accepts data there. The secretary must then agree with the details in the Regulation. The committee has the right to use assisted reproductive technology to treat a wife or wife who has the approval of a mate or a partner. A survey of Iceland's National Publications Indexs, including the U.S.A. to see if assisted reproductive technology in the relevant situation has been performed under the authority of the competent government or the courts. Based on the rights of the committee that the directive does not apply to a surrogate approach, localisation is prohibited in this country under the legislation on assisted reproduction techniques and the use of human sex cells and human embryos for stem cell testing, as per law No. 55/1996. After all, the commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change, before it becomes 18 - year - old in 2 mgr. Section 5. ... willstapout. Under the heading all committees write, i.e. The one standing here, Páll Magnússon, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolmbrönsson, Birgir the Yearling Ármannsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Árnadóttir Tónu Turnadótir, Willum Þórsson, The Þorsteinn Víglundsson Wísundsson, and Thordld Ævarsdóttir Övarsdotir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u36	A respectable president. I come up here alone to express my joy with this bill as well as the adjustment of plans. The General and Education Committee did it on the bill. With this in mind, we take a major step during the council, for being nonconformable with everything is very burdensome to anyone, whether a child is under 18 years of age or someone older. I'm not going to keep this further. Rather, I'm going to express my joy with the action of the council. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u37	V.E.G. President. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct the film change, No. 137/2000, with subsequent changes, from the General and Education Committee and refer to the Committee to the Article. 1157. I'm gonna go over some major stuff. The committee has covered the subject extensively and has received a review to its members, while reviews were received from the Union of Icelandic artists, Icelandic actors' Association of Movies, Movie Center of Iceland, and a joint report came from the filmmakers' partner, The Union of the Filmmakers, and the Film Players Association. The main objective of the bill is to respond to ESAs, the EFTA monitoring facility, to convey film laws in accordance with international commitments to national support and to avoid discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity. There are more detailed requirements for financial support to be given only by Icelandic films, Icelandic films, and Icelandic cultural or community appeals. Other changes turn to the role of the film council and session representatives in the council, to work on the film centres of Iceland and the film fund, the maximum time of the campaign manager, the authority to provide display strength, the legal role of a movie adviser, and the total amount of trust will not exceed the rules of rules. The committee feels that the author of the reviews and found with sources of information needs to respond to some comments from the source. I'm just going to hit some of the majors. The committee specifically spoke with those who are entitled to a movie council session according to 2 mg. 2.g. The bill. The Commission agrees that the Society of Icelandic actors has a right to appoint a member of the film council and proposes a change in its content. The joint review of filmmakers' society, EU filmmakers, and movie directors' Association make comments on breaking out legal contracts with movie councils. According to the Ministry, the bill was put in a consultation process and given the opportunity for all to send a review. The Commission points out that this is not removing the Court of Reviews of the Film Council, but it also emphasizes that this statement is not a substitute for a discussion of committees that is an important part of the Congress treatment and that the Committee points to the Ministry for effective consultations with future stakeholders when the matter is being implemented. The Commission then stresses that in the progress towards film development policy development, the overall re-examination of films and full consultation with stakeholders in this process will be carried out. Iceland's movie center believes that the bill leads to overlap between movie centres and movie funds. There are some adjustments to Article 3. The bill where number 1 3r. The law says that KMI will strengthen the production and distribution of Icelandic films, is taken out and replaced with new numbers that state that KMI will supervise the operations and activities of the Film Fund. The committee points out that the aim of these changes is to explain the working difference between the KMI and the Motion Fund. The change is taking care to ensure that all KMI sponsors go through a movie fund. In terms of funding and contributions, equality, objective, transparency and competitiveness should be maintained and, in addition to the legal reinforcements of the film fund, the need for special legal legislation. So the committee disagrees that a certain overlap will be made in the role of the KMI and the film fund with the adjustment proposed on the bill. In view of this, KMÍ is important because of the special nature of filming, it is important to have clear lines, and the film fund cannot be used unless it is to support filmmaking. The film fund is under the direction of the KMI. KMI and the Film Fund have different roles according to film law, and I refer here to the list of projects that match the role of the KMÍ and the film fund, which are clearly presented in a committee program. The role of the film fund is so further developed in the budget of the fund, No. 229/2003. Either way, both the KMI and the Film Fund are involved in promoting a film culture in Iceland, although in different ways as described here. According to the reviews of Iceland's Movie Centers and the Association, the word "press on to a specific cultural point " leads to something else in 2 mg. Section 6. Let the law be taken out. Should the organization suggest that the change will predictablely reduce the possibility of a film fund to strengthen e.g. Work in the co-production of national and international organisations, where Icelandic producers are in smaller sections. The committee agrees with these comments from a speaker and suggests that the words are added to 1. Section 6. The bill, followed by the words ◯ community appeal to the Bible's publications. KMI believes that the definition of the term "asthenian film" in the bill is unremarkable. The Commission points out that there are no changes to the definition, an amenik film ◯ in the bill. However, 2nd is suggested. Section 6. the bill that the regulations will be removed from the 3rd mg. 1st par. The law. In turn, the definition of the term "contact " appears in the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures and is designed to explain which films are robust. The Commission agrees with sources of information that the bill's presentation is not clear enough and suggests that the second act is 2.mg. Section 6. if not added to 3. mg, which discusses strength through films in Icelandic. The above common reference is made to refer to movie counselors who assess the robustness of applications to a person's community, such as 1 mgr. 7. The bill. The Commission points out that if possible, the aim will continue to be used by a movie counselor, while there may be a possibility in a Regulation to consult another person. The Commission points to the Ministry that such a warrant will be clearly defined in the Regulation. The Committee disagrees with the Agency's permission for any kind of sponsorship as long as funding falls into the role of a film fund to promote Icelandic filmmaking. The Commission considers it only allowed to give grant grants that are defined in the law itself or by law and in Article 13. The bill has this authority for the Minister. It will continue to be used by movie advisers for evaluation of the robust applications in the film fund, but it is suggested that there may be a possibility in a Regulation to consult other persons if necessary and to direct the Commission to define such authority in the Regulation. Both the KMI and the organization count the law of 3 mg. 7. the bill, of reimbursement, unclear and that it seems to provide reimbursement when the cost of a movie is lower than on the day of application. Indicates KMI that the source is being identified but that the export is blurred and suggests the change in wording to 3mgr. The committee accepts the CMI criticism and suggests a change in accordance with their proposal. According to KMI, the benefits of uniting the activities of the KMI with the movie collection are well considered. Movie Fund management and general support measures in films have been set apart from movie preservations with current films, No. 137/2000, and Iceland's movie collection has assigned the preservation role. This arrangement has given us a good start, and the committee does not believe that there is a solid basis for returning to a new organization. KMÍ comments on the printed film manufacturer's reviews to Iceland's movie collection also state that no reference is made to the movie funds and their exchanges. The Commission agrees with KMI's motion to change the wording of the latter proverb 10th paragraph. and proposes the adjustment to the details of the implementation in the Regulation. The Committee does not agree with KMI that the current film policy shape process, the general budget of funding, focuses on the policy role and responsibility of the Minister. A review suggests that the head of KMI should be ruled. The committee points out that in part the film Council plays such a role. Since the sentence of law on rights and duties of the state servants, it has been progressively accomplished to reduce the number of government administrations and the responsibility of the heads of the directors for increased ministers. Therefore, it is important that a director be responsible for the management of the agency with a minister. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with a proposal for the changes I have now tore up and are listed in a committee party. A more detailed article is given to them in a committee program that has a change in the motion, which means I refer to them for a spell. 1157. Under the order of the centuries. Council: President Páll Magnússon, Chairman of Willum Steinunn Þóra Þórsson, daughter of Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Guðmundur Andri Jón, Jóndor Valdimarsson, Sunnímsson of the Árnadóttir, Tiz Björn Einarsson and Thordur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u38	A respectable president. This is a bill that responds to indications from the EFTA, ESA, on the need to bring film laws in line with international commitments to allow candidates from other EEA countries to apply for support in Iceland's Film Fund as it is maintained that EFTA/EEA countries are permitted specifically to support languages in a small language area such as the Icelandic language area. I'm in this situation, and I don't have much to add as much as I can. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson said earlier. However, I would like to stress just one thing that was presented in the process of consulting the Ministry with the relevant stakeholders. It says, by permission of the President: Therefore, the Commission directs that strong consultations will be made with future stakeholders when legal matters are implemented. The Commission also stresses that in the progress towards film development, the overall review of film shapes is carried out, No. 137/2000, and full collaboration with stakeholders should be made with that overall review. All I want to do is make this right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u39	Mr. President. I'd like to be especially glad that the committee reached a good solid solidarity of changing the bill presented here, and I'm not going to trace it. I'd especially like to mention that one of the adjustments in the motions means that an Icelandic actor's Féggi has the right to appoint a member of the film council. That's a very important change. When films become available, they usually have the same name that many actors differ, but they are the face and interpret, so to speak, the subject on the screen we watch. I think it's very important that they, this large class involved in the films, even get more about the way these things are done. That's why I only wanted to come up here to be especially happy that the company of Icelandic actors has joined the movie councils.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u40	A respectable president. We're not discussing a small matter here. We'll discuss a suggestion to take one of the many steps that must be taken to eliminate the benefits of the sex in society, the amount of pay that has been committed for far too long in spite of decades, at any rate, to eliminate. The proposal suggests that financial and economic ministers will lead to consultation with the labour market and the European Union for special initiatives, national fairs, to the improved pay of the women's classes, which work for the government. We, on the basis of the opinion of the greater part, agree with the views presented there, and we discussed with the Committee that the pay of the sex will not be eliminated unless it is with great mental and coordinated actions such as this and the presence of the whole community. It's a community project that needs to be attacked. The Committee reviewed a work evaluation system established by Reykjavíkurburg and the European Union for development. Since the city of Reykjavík has larger public employers, their experience in this field is noteworthy. The aim of this work evaluation is to ensure that the salary is determined by as objective and objective measures as possible. This, therefore, takes on not just gender views in terms of pay but, rather, a variety of unexplained wages between classes of the city. This methodology struck us, which is present at the majority of opinions, as something that might be likely to be achieved even in a broader context than the original shipping proposal assumes that methodology does not only look at the gender variable, but may possibly involve differences between classes, which are often linked to classes where women are in a higher proportion than men, i.e. in low-paying classes, but we could get this around low-paying classes regardless of the gender variable. It would follow, but there might be other things to look at. We believe that a conversation between the labour market parties, the government, both the state and the community, on this basis could possibly result in permanent changes in government pay. Thus, we could achieve not just the results of an initial Senate resolution but a little more, perhaps even deeper, results. Most of the time, it calls attention to the fact that in the state there has been a lot of work in that direction, e.g. The introduction of a level-paying position, which the council concluded by the council covenants recognizes well, and works in accordance with the labour market parties' agreements on the equations between the public system and the private sector that began at the equivalent of the pension rights over a year ago. We believe that the diagnostic work recommended in the proposal may well be followed by the current and future policies. We suggest that you consider the adjustment as follows: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers from talking with the labour market partners and from the local representatives on ways to ensure equality with the pay of different government groups. They will be consulted in the analysis of remunerations of different professions, including to draw out gender pay amounts, and in particular will be considered to be the experience of a community of professional assessments and to see if this methodology can benefit from government assessments. In this respect, in addition to what it says here, Páll Magnússon, Birgir Ármannsson's son, Steinnu Árnadóttir and Willum Þóra Þór Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u41	A respectable president. I recommend my share of the General and Education Committee with a change in proposal. We had a meeting with a representative from the National Association of Professionals and the Common Union, a staff representative, a member of the Icelandic nurses, a representative from Reykjavíkurburg and the Women's Association, a partner of women's professional careers, and from the BSRB. Then we got reviews from the All-American Union, the Union of Colleges, the BSRB and Icelandic Nurses Association, the Women's Association for Parents, the National Social Association for Parents, the Isafjörg, Iceland's Women's Rights Association, Mosfellstown, Reykjavíkurburg and Business Association. The proposal suggests that financial and economic ministers will lead to consultation with the labour market and the European Union for special initiatives, national fairs, to the improved pay of the women's classes, which work for the government. The proposal involves a special agreement and, on the other hand, an analysis of the salary of large groups of women. In general, a majority of visitors and clients felt the need to improve the quality of large groups of women and that in the proposal there is an ideal way to reduce the pay of the sex. The comments of Reykjavíkurburg, one of the largest employers of the class, were specifically discussed with the city's work evaluation system based on a pay policy as well as what has been experienced. However, the report also noted that although there had been significant progress in reducing the city's sexual pay, analysis would have shown that the remuneration rate in rural areas was considerably lower than in the state and in the general labour market. It is part of the importance of accepting the proposal by the Council. There was a view that an existing proposal would not be compatible with work on the induction of such a pay position, since there would be more factors than education and responsibilities, as laid down in the motion. The smaller part permissible to equal pay value is including aims to ensure that the employer pays the same wage for equally valuable jobs. It seems that women's professions need to be considered and corrected. It is reasonable to consider certain factors that are well measurable in this evaluation and therefore are commanded to be looked upon for education and responsibility. The committee noted that one feature of the Icelandic labour market is how much he is sexually involved, and it is a fact that large groups of women have their main public service. The committee found that in general, a comparison has shown that the benefit of women's classes is inferior to that of traditional male classes. There were various opinions as to how to improve in this area. In the handling of the case for the Commission, the view that to achieve the objectives of the proposal would be better to ensure the coordinated actions of the whole community and make an agreement on efforts to correct the interests of women rather than to make a special agreement for such correction. There was also the view that this was possible through correct methodology, as such. in Reykjavík, where there has been a agreement with most trade unions in an earlier employment evaluation system. Then there was the view that the wording of the proposal was too narrow, i.e. that it seemed more concerned with educated women than with women's classes in general, but the goal of the proposal is to improve the quality of any class that is in poor standing than that of others in relation to education and responsibilities. In view of the objective of the proposal, and the importance of reaching out, the lesser part feels that it should take into account the current viewpoints and thus suggest a change in the proposal. It is important to take steps to counteract the high standards of men and women by caste. The minority feels that it is right to change the suggestion so that it is unambiguously involved with all the large groups of women working in the public field. The minority also feels that it would be proper to stress more that a careful analysis will be the basis for an agreement on efforts to correct the terms of these classes. Similarly, all major unions within the labor movement will be endeavored to achieve such efforts in collective agreements. According to the above, the smaller item suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following modification: The suggestions are so expressed: The General concluded to hide the financial and economic secretary's involvement with the labour market and the European Union on special initiatives, nationalities, on the improved pay of women's classes. They will be consulted in the analysis of the salary of large groups of women, compared to other classes with comparable education and government responsibilities. Based on this analysis, there will be an agreement on efforts to correct the terms of these classes. All major unions within the labor movement will be expected to achieve such efforts in collective agreements and, at the same time, that specific increases on the basis of this will not be the basis for other professions' pay requirements. Under these publications, besides mine, sharp. The members of the assembly, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson and Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir. A respectable president. An organized lack of contribution, education, and rights of women is national property. This suggestion is a bold and decisive attempt to try in a new way to address the root causes of the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u42	A respectable president. First of all, let me be especially glad that this important proposal has arrived for a second discussion at the council. If there's a history of equality in this country that teaches us something, it's not that change will happen on its own. The key factors in equality struggle over the years and the decades have been achieved by concerted efforts and severe combat, mainly of women in politics and since labour market events. In this way we have taken important steps, such as enforcing an obstetrical and with the equal right of both parents to take such vacations, to balance the sex status of a workforce. Not to be overlooked are major improvements in day - to - day care measures, which have been of enormous importance to the equal bioavailability of the sexes into the labour market. We've agreed to a law on sexuality in the management of an enterprise to alter the extreme imbalance in the labour market at the time of top management and composition. More than anything else, this year's Council adopted a law of equal pay, which will be in my mind marked by a turning point in the battle for equality in the labour market. It is quite clear, however, that women usually pay less than men, when we look at the pay paid repeatedly in the labour market. It is a permanence, repeated, measured pay differences in the labour market. It is good to remember that this difference in pay is not a personal enterprise in the country. This is not a question of free payment. Correspondence in remuneration is forbidden by the law, both by the gender's equal status and by the same pay sheet last year. And the cost falls on the community. Let us not forget that in general women live in less than a third of their retirement rights, whereas men are precisely caused by systematic discrimination in the labour market. When we talk about the 151⁄20% pay of the sex, one of the largest changes in the sexual market is the fact that large, well-educated female classes are systematically underestimated in the labour market salary. It stands out in every report that has been written on these matters. This synonym is intended to cover this problem because it is quite clear that as important as the laws on equally pay-authority are not ignored for remuneration. They are primarily aimed at solving amounts of pay within the individual enterprises. I'm glad that it's done. I support the changes that the less part of the committee suggests to sharpen the situation and try to make greater peace of it. I have to say, too, that the changes in the motions of the greater part really disappoint me. If we say that there is an action to be carried out on the council arrangement, i.e. Congress proposals that involve the government's taking real action, discussions about how to handle the problem, include the adjustment of the more part of it to do nothing. It does not add to what is already done at work. A systematic, detailed analysis of the sex-time pay is already being performed, including ... fromTheHardroom. It does not have to be specifically stated in the synopsis that such an analysis needs to be undertaken, it is made. When you look at Reykjavík's job meal, that is just the second word for the same salary as we already have legalized it. It's already being wrapped around that factor. Thus, two main aspects of the new proposal do not include a new addition to what is already done in the labour market and therefore in itself serves no purpose of consenting to it. It is also noteworthy that during the controversies of national agreements to improve the status of the women class, there have been a ◯ national group, and the church classes have taken away from the synopsis. This may show how a systematic attempt is made to water the suggestion so that there is nothing left exactly. It is good to bear in mind that the most successful workplace in the field, the city of Reykjavík, where it has been systematically completed for 25 years, supports the proposal as originally laid out, and as a result the adjustment proposals, I expect, as a lesser part of the committee proposes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I am disappointed if such classes as the left green, which clearly entitle me to promote higher wages in the country, do not intend to support this fine case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u43	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u44	Mr. President. This is an enormous need for a controversy proposal. You see, there are certain groups of women in which the majority of those within the group are women, just like the wind. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was right in this, being systematically underestimated over the years. That does not mean that there is no underappreciated status of such a fine contract approved last year by the entire class. The Conspiracy proposal deals with special initiatives that must be taken into consideration, making national agreements for improving the interests of women's classes. You see, sometimes things have to be done by hand. It is not enough to have some conversation or conversation about considering the case on committees. Rather, it must be declared at the High General Assembly that everyone agrees to take some action because a decades - old system of systematic discrimination needs to be corrected. We have watched the struggle between midwives in the past few months and even years, their struggle to correct the systematic injustices they are experiencing. That is why I would have thought that the General Assembly would bring everything on this council resolution, which is so incredibly important, to assign financial and economic ministers to conduct negotiations with the labour market parties and the European Union for a special effort, in which we agree to make national agreements for the improved pay of the women's classes. I don't think it'll be any better. In spite of the changes made by a greater part of the General and Education Committee, I believe that among those there are some members of the Parliament, they agree on the need to take this initiative. For example, we saw the importance of the city in Reykjavík, the decision to eliminate the city's sexual pay. What happened? Reykjavíkurburg has been very effective in this regard. The situation is much better than the government. It was because the decision to eliminate wages was made. He's not gone completely, but he's considerably smaller than the state. This was done by making a decision, with effort. So I have to say, it grieves me a little bit to see how the more part will handle this situation. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. You feel somehow that by watering out this effort, the adjustment should be made in the middle, something to do. Making conversation - nothing is said about a national condition, however, that I still believe is a specific cause. Senators agree that need to be addressed. I'm sure and I think there must be some misunderstanding. I rejoice at the change the lesser part made in the council arrangement, at any given moment. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson recommended, and hail this council's decree.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u45	A respectable president. The proposal for a judicial hearing is a pleasant addition to the discussion that has, in turn, been a major loss in the country. So, the concierge of a national accord - which I think is one of the most beautiful words I can think of - of improving the interests of the women class, hopefully will be approved today, on this most likely the second most recent day of the council before the council. Last year, world attention was aroused when Iceland, first of nations, introduced a so - called equal wage standard into the law of the country. What a joy it is, then, that the Council maintains the vampire in that respect and fulfills its role by holding these matters first in the assembly! As indicated by the proposal's report and the why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson spoke of earlier in studies conducted by Iceland's Haggis, which has worked for women, on average, over 15 to20% less income, reminds me. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson said just now. You can't ignore it anymore. If people believe in facts, blacks in whites, like those observed in professional opinion of this subject over the years, they cannot be denied the fact that in spite of a large leap into the category of paintings in recent decades, the fact is that even today in Iceland, 2018, women are seriously disposed of in terms of pay. In many respects, like the Senate proposal, a palace in women's classes is a palace. Compared to men's large groups, it is a very serious matter and a huge error we are talking about. Like what? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir spoke of this before is a very recent example of midwives. It has been asked if we would have seen such a conflict if the class was named the Fathers of Light. Finally, I take to heart the views presented in the panel of my section that it is desirable that all the community will rise here and that an agreement will be made in paraphrasing and sliding into the professional life. An essential step leading up to that work is careful diagnostic work, but as a matter of fact, it is. Víglundsson This work has been accomplished for many years, so it is only a matter of taking action and taking it seriously. I'd also like to say that I love how many men working at a council are leading and controlling this fight. I think it's great that men are with women that way. Let us continue to lead the fight in the country. It's in everyone's best interest that we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u46	Mr. President. Yes, it is an important suggestion that we discuss national status in order to improve the interests of women's classes. In fact, this is an attempt to address the root of the problem. We know it's a 151⁄20% sexual difference in pay. We know he's there. He's been around way too long. We have a variety of tools in Icelandic society. We've got sexuality on board. Fortunately, we have the same pay contract that last year had to be brought in by a missing government, but fortunately the council approved the same pay contract. But more is needed, and more is needed. I say, this is an interesting attempt to address exactly the root of the problem, to do things, not just talk about them, but do something to improve the interests of women, where we see less pay and that's sexual. These matters require special attention, which is the subject of this synonym. There's a lot to consider, and thank you very much. The General Board for reviewing the proposal. But I have to state that when I saw the majority opinion of the committee, I was very disappointed. I know that opinions are divided among the majority, and especially in the left green, there are many ambitious individuals with regard to social equality. It says that this is a suggestion to counter the challenge that we face, and it does not mean that we should draw all teeth out of the suggestion as such. If I am going to go over to see something positive, I can mention that it is being settled from a committee. That's good. That's when the government's leadership is tested. I've said before that I've missed a government led by the left movement a ◯ green supply has shown no greater determination and ambition to solve the problem and to try to meet the normal standards of women's classes. It is not done temporarily to correct the salary now, nor is it necessary, if I look to the nursery, the first degree, the primary education, a teaching program, a nursing attendance, and where they go after graduation, to promote a better salary environment than it is now. There's been a lot of education in recent years, in 10, 15 or 20 years, not a question. This situation needs to be corrected, and this does not always mean pushing it into the future. That's why it was so interesting and exciting to see how this would be resolved. I say all the teeth fall out of the motion. Yet, the fact remains that we have a surveillance role at the council. How should we exercise that surveillance? We have to keep the government in line. We must hope that Prime Minister, president of the left green green, will use his surveillance role for financial and economic ministers to follow the proposal and its successor. I'm most afraid that men will cancel the motion and just say, "It's been approved. But then nothing will be done with it. Why do I say that? Yeah, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. because of how midwives have been and how their association has been with them in the last weeks and in the other women's classes. If I try to take something positive out of a dud. So much of the General and Education Committee is that we have a chance at the council to direct our surveillance to the way the government uses this clear message, because the message is clear. The message is to correct the benefit of women's classes. I would have wanted to go through a special campaign with a nationality, as my share would have been suggested. But well, I'm not gonna let any more of that stuff go away, so don't let them avoid doing that job. We face an opportunity to sharpen the government, sharpen the left - green, and their government leaders to follow through. I know that power can be there. It is more important than ever that we improve this environment to get people to do this, so we get the attendance at the teachers' school, in our nurses, and into places where major women's classes work, that we make the demand for them by fixing the salary. This requires taking the lead, and I have high hopes that the prime minister will take the lead when the case has been approved here at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u47	Mr. President. We'll discuss the excellent arts that have been presented here. We discussed the proposal on the General Education Committee, and we had quite a few visitors, along with reviews. I'd like to think about what went through my mind earlier when I listened to talks above. It is good to know that the equal prize has come into existence. However, it is this way with the equally paid position that it only balances pay within certain institutions and within certain companies. It doesn't go between institutions and companies. He may not be the one who increases his salary or corrects the wages of women's classes. That is why it is very important that we agree to take the steps that must be taken. It is true that the workforce is sexually divided, and this is probably where the problem is based. That is the problem we face, and we will have every option to try to deal with it. But the question is, What should be done first and at what end? Our ideas need to seek all ways, to get men to attend these traditional women's jobs, and vice versa. It has also been claimed that women cannot be corrected for long periods of time because of the number of classes in which women are so numerous. On the contrary, it can be said that this is not true of midwives. Well, there's not a very big class, and the last news is that it's a mess. The minor opinion I signed makes me feel more decisive than the majority opinion that left the committee. It has been said that the majority view is diluted. This may be the case, so when it comes to thinking, it becomes a bit watered up, so that all have their own sentences in it. The groves are used wording, such as a tip, as suggested by the ◯, for the tip of the table, and so on. I think it's very smart that we accept the adjustment proposed by the memory part, that there is a clear basis for action and that this is done in cooperation with the labor movement, etc. It was also noted that we received a report from Reykjavíkurburg and from visitors who said it was good to have a job estimate. Well, I'm good at this, but I'd like to reiterate that there's no difference between institutions and companies. True, it is based on the same amount of pay, but that is not enough. It's just not enough. Hence, it is important that this suggestion be made and that we highlight the minority opinion that we must continue, that we must map the problem, and then take the steps needed to correct the ideal female classes, even though many are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u48	A respectable president. What a joy it is that we are calling for a national agreement about the equal wages of women and men! However, that sexual differences in pay are still in the discussion in 2018 must be surprising. Of course, we have to look at this as the beginning, the beginning is here. We're talking about it. We're going to follow through on that. Somewhere, it's the starting point. I say half the sea is the work. I also say, "Women are men." I reiterate that it is surprising, more dignified President, that here we will stand in 2018 and fight for the equal pay of women and men, even for the same work. But I trust it to the highest. The prime minister steps forward and fulfills what she has fought hard for, equalizes, and eliminates the wages of the sexes. Here's your chance for the left green. Here is the opportunity for prime minister to follow the ideal view of equality. I would like to reiterate that we should reap the same reward, that we should earn the same reward for the same work. Women are also men.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u49	Mr. President. It's just a matter of time. There were statistics on the subject in the General and Education Committee, and there were various viewpoints. I think most people realized that the suggestion as originally suggested was that it needed to make changes. Factors such as that it was specifically recommended that a minister of finance be used for a special collective agreement to achieve the goals involved in this and other pursuits not about goals or policy but of wording and implementation. This results in the fact that both greater and smaller things provide proposals for a change in the theme text itself. You can argue how different it is. That's a lot of difference. I must say, however, that the proposal of the greater part of the Committee, the government party of the Committee, is more accessible in that it refers to what can really be made by Generalis resolution, i.e. to assign a minister to a discussion that, of course, needs to be done, that the objective of this discussion will be discussed with both the labour market partners and the rural communities. In this case, you must bear in mind that the workforce is not one thing. It is largely divided, the public labour market and the private market. But both of these markets are broken into hundreds of pieces and collective agreements in the country. There are hundreds of people who have an independent contract. In this regard, only a person must be careful not to assign any specific minister to solve a matter that this would require. However, it can be expected that a minister will use talks with intent to achieve the purpose of the decision of the Senate. There are two relevant points that must be followed by a step. On the one hand, it is the essential initiative taken by secretary of finance in doing business on the aforementioned grounds. In fact, much of the committee's list points to the fact that this must be considered in the discussions that have already ended up equality between the private market and the public market. It must then be below the division of different classes, which in some cases are mainly composed of women and in other cases by men. There must be some consideration in this relationship. It may be said that with the approval of this proposal, sex - based views are being further considered in their discussion. However, it is also recommended that both markets, public markets, and private markets be analysed from the sex pool of the professions. Of course, such data exist in some respects. This is not to say that it is all the invention of proposalists or of those who have done the work on a universal and educational committee, but it is useful to consider what has been agreed together to be identified and possibly the information acquired where there are gaps. In any case, I wanted to come up here to express support that the matter will be settled by the risk that the greater part of the General and Education Committee suggests that we must be able to unite in the objectives that all of this proposals are going to take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u50	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party with a change in bill to law on law and residence. The Commission has discussed the matter and received to Skúli Gjönsteinsson from the Department of Transport and Department of Transport, the Berglind of Sigurbjörg Rut and Þorbjörnsdóttir from the Ministry of Justice, Haraldsdóttir and Halldóra Hoffritz of the National Socialist Association, Bjarnadóttir of the National Social Affairs of Iceland, Birgitta Alma and Arthursdóttir Hjálmarsson of the State, The Ástríður of Jóhannesdóttir and Indriði from Iceland's National Congress, the Guðný S. the World. News came from Society on parental equal rights, the River Valley region, Iceland's Habitat, Isafjörður, Percontainment, Reykjavíkurborg, State tax manager, the Union of Icelandic society, the Santanian Company, the Sigurlaug of Knudsen Stefánsdóttir, the State Department of Insurance and the Foreign Institute. The bill includes an overall review of legal laws, No. 21/190, and social security laws, No. 73/1952. Its motive is primarily the resolution of the General Assembly of September 7, 2016, and the changing community practices. The objective of the bill is also. to ensure that legislation on the legal home and residence is in harmony with the needs and social practices of today and is clear and easily understood. It is considered necessary to synchronize the country's registration, to make it central, to help achieve the rightness of it, and to be mostly electronic. In addition, the purpose of the bill is to promote a better practice on registration and to provide clear rules on permissions for the recovery of registrations. The nominee is quite thorough, and I'm not going to review it all here. Rather, I'm going to discuss the most recent in the bill facing a couple's legal home and registered living together. The bill has new reports that a husband and wife are allowed to have each other's home. In the treatment of the case, it was noted that such a warrant could lead to a list of rich persons in rural areas who have a low impact ratio of response without actually living there. There was a suggestion to limit such authority under certain circumstances. The committee agrees that this danger is true, but it claims that the authority of a husband and wife to own their home is largely due to a husband and wife's not always in position or to choose to have the same legal home, such as. for a job. The committee claims that such a warrant cannot include tax advantages for married couples. For a detailed discussion of the requirements that must be met, see the following article. This is also about residence abroad, how the confirmation of a place to live, the registration of residences within the country, a secret home, a children's home that can, according to this, have a legal home in both parents if that is true, if parents do not live together. So it's a fairly dramatic change in the law, and I'm simply referring to the fact that it's found on the roof. 1160. The committee made five changes to the law found in the last opinion of the committee. It should be noted that the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes specified there, on page 24. 7. Hv. The members of Ingi In Jónsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson and Thordl Sunna Ævarsdóttir were absent at the hearing, but they signed according to a 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir Kolbrún Colbrow Árnadóttir, however, feels that the Ministry should submit proposals for the registration of a post office as soon as possible at the next council. With the above - mentioned publications, Páll Magnússon, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbröndóttir, with the above warnings, Guðmundur Andri Árnadóttir, Björn Valdimarsson, Steinunn Tínar Ájörnnadótbrasson, Willum Þórsson, and Thorhld Ævarsdóttir Avjörnardótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u51	A respectable president. I recommend to the Commission's list of changes to the bill to legalize the laws of loyalty and pollution, environmental impacts assessments and the law on the decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources, special lawsuits due to action and inactivity. Environmental and transport committees are considered. The bill itself lies on the roof. 344 and the commission to make a change in the budget. 1161. It has generally been under the term "mess " and" inactivity, " and it is a form of a special lawsuit on such grounds. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought a number of visitors to the fore and reviewed the comments received. The bill suggests that those who have legal interests and environmental organisations, as defined in the Environmental and Resource Acts Act, be allowed to sue activities and activities as well as the public's participation rights under the legislation on environmental impact. It is also suggested that there be a change in the legal rights of the law on the path of loyalty and pollution prevention to reconcile it with the authority of other laws to the Committee on Environment and Resources. The committee presented a view of Article 3. The bill on legalization of charges to sue activities and inactions went far beyond the rational opinion of the EFTA (ESA) from 2016, but in the opinion only it would be said that the prosecution would not be guaranteed when a government would not take a decision that would be required to make. There would be nowhere to introduce criminal activities and inactivity in the form suggested in the bill. It is important to ensure public participation in the process of environmental assessment. The Worker Convention's Directive on access to a fair trial suggests that three cases of decision-making are charged with action and inaction. This is not enough to warrant only the decision - making process. Notes were performed on the terms of the 6th Number b-joins 3.g. the bill that includes a group of units, i.e. It is recommended that the occurrences are comparable to those attributed to 1,6.5. the number and so could be reported to the Environment and Resource Commission. It was noted that ESA's logical opinion would not allow for legalization of such a law. Then they offer expressions of interpretation analysis of the content of the charge, but viewpoints on clarity should take special note of the legislation to ensure the absence of validation. The committee agrees with the above views and suggests that the sixth number b-joins Article 3. The bill will be removed. There was considerable concern over the treatment period for the Environmental and Resource Commission, but it has been beyond the legal period of treatment for many years. Some cases have not yet ended since 2015 and aim to extend the treatment period in the year. Clearly, the charges and delays of their release can result in significant damage to the recruiter. The committee insists that there will be a targeted step toward shortening the treatment period for the Committee, including the Management Board. with increasing status values, but it is important to secure capital support. Then the Committee suggests that there will be increased clearances for quick treatment of the committee, i.e. Things that have significant financial interests for the person, whether the accused or the accuser, should be quick to approach. Gives the committee a change of 6 mg. Section 4. The law to do that. In fact, very many of the guests discussed this matter, which is not a new word in the law, but perhaps what has been prevented from efficiency. The Commission gives high importance to offer an overall review of the environmental impact law as soon as possible. There is considerable experience on the law in the 18 years since their sentence has passed and has been found to be a significant extent difficult to deal with, as well as that it has been identified to some extent beyond what is expected in the EU directives. Then the law is different from the laws we compare with and about many more complex countries. The Commission considers it important that in the work of the reviews be made safe from consultation with stakeholders and will be consulted by the most skilled academics in the area of administrative and environmental and resource rights. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be accepted by the change, which is the two changes I've made. Under countless printed page. Councilmen Bergþór Ólason, chairman of the Committee's Director Jón Gunnarsson, Lingtik Anna Sævarsdóttir, who took the lead today in the prehistoric projector, Elíasdóttir Friðbjört the Björk of Elis, Brynjólfsdóttir Satri Guðmundsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Hjaltason Gauti ungi Einark Berryfjörk, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u52	Mr. President. The bill of this can be a strain for calling the EEA induction. It was controversial at first, including Because it was believed that it was going beyond the EFTA, ESA, clinic. But now the bill has made changes. Environment and Transport Committee, it's a pleasure. The bill is about the public and the spokesman's potential to sue so - called activity or inactivity - it may include announcements or advertisements, a lack of advertisements and other items - at the level of government to be clear. This will happen when you are preparing and allowing all kinds of projects. So it's called estimating projects, and it's clear that these provisions have been missing in Icelandic law, and that's where they've come from. It can be said that the main ingredient of the bill, or foundation itself, is an act of justice. It may also help to remind you how important it is to log into the increased environmental public rights exactly this right, especially if you can make comments and change to the whole process that is being carried out; the process from the design of specific projects to your own projects and to end in real life. That is exactly what the law should lead to, for example, more than any member of the European Union. That's exactly what this is all about, including, and it's a good thing. At the same time, it is imperative that we add both the money and the manpower, the force, we can just call it, as it were, to the Department of Justice. As shown in the case of what? The above example shows that there is a lack of efficiency and mainly the ability of the committee to complete its affairs. This is done with contributions from the bill, and so is good. The criticism of waiting on the bill and instead reviewing laws on the assessment of environmental impacts of action or estimates is understandable but unnecessary because the government intends to do both at once, receive this bill and prepare a review of its great law on environmental impact assessments. That preparation is already begun. I'm celebrating the bill's payment and because that review has begun, i.e. Review of total environmental assessments and programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u53	Mr. President. In a few words, I'm going to sue something that has happened to my colleagues on an environment and transport committee and to care for this fine thing, a bill to correct a change in commitment and pollution laws, activities and inactivity. A few reviews were made if the majority of people did not well, in various harsh words, were critical that this was the wrong legal approach, i.e. that the bill was going considerably beyond the need for introduction and content based on the rational opinion of the EFTA Agency. Previous speakers'comments on the subject have been made that hopefully some of the changes were made to overcome the criticism presented, even though I imagined that some may have wanted to go further. This is the agreement established by the Committee, and I would like to review only what is stated in the Commission's opinion at the end, that the Environment and Transport Committee strongly stresses the submission of an overall review of environmental impact laws as soon as possible. In April 2016, an environmental and resource minister appointed a team to review the law, and since then a considerable amount of water has flowed to the sea, both in the political affairs of trade, and also in certain projects of this law. It is of utmost importance that we fulfill our promise to go to work as soon as possible and with the stakeholders in question and to consider this whole affair. If there's something I'm afraid of, it's that these legislation, if they pass through, will cause a man to breathe more easily for a while and put some other project above the priority list than to go to this overall accounting. I just wanted to make a decision that I think it's very important, the committee is very clear with its opinion, that we have an overall review, that we can settle these matters, and then we have the advantage of not to go beyond the material, and that we have to get stakers to eat to work it as much in harmony and harmony as possible, and thus ensure the right of the public to have access to the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. Advisory committee with a new proposal. I'd like to before I go further, so I sure don't forget, to thank especially for the good cooperation that existed. Business committee on the case. The structure of the electrical transport system is an enormously important issue, and I felt that all members of the committee were approaching it with an open mind and keen desire to get together as best of a suggestion on this important matter. All of us agreed to remain here on a real - life conference discussion that would come up, not just words on paper, so we make adjustments, just to strengthen our vision. The committee had many visitors, many reviews came on the subject, and we covered it very closely, as it should be. The proposal, as stated and available on an appropriate Senate document, is given in 15 numbers where the basis for the development of electricity transport systems in this country is laid. The committee suggests adding one number so that they will be 16. I'll find out later. Just a moment. When a proposal for a hearing of government policy onlining electrical lines was proposed for treatment at the General Assembly, an agreement was made to ensure the introduction of the Generalis to the development of a system plan. From that work this proposal of the day is clear, since it was not found to be consistent with the EU directive for the General Assembly to agree with a system plan as such. This is the General's tool to establish nuclear policy. Clearly, the development and development of electricity transport involves a vast system of infrastructure with a long life span involving the interests of people and businesses all over the country. In handling the case of the committee, the following points were addressed: The proposal suggests that the transport system should be more confident, that it should link key areas and ensure the delivery of electricity across the country. The Committee considered areas where emphasis would be needed. It was noted that according to a current rule of action, it was not possible to ensure the transfer of electricity to Eyjafjörður. In addition, Westerns have been identified as the area in which the electricity security has been remembered. The Commission stresses the priority of areas where the need is greater, such as Eyjafjörður, Western, and Southnes. Here's what I came in earlier, that we want water to be directed toward certain areas where the need is most important for policy to work properly. The transport of electrical energy between land areas was determined to be dependent on the limitations and was suggested to aim for a minimum share of the processing capacity of the inducers linked to the transport system. The Commission suggests that this should be further considered at the proposed review. The 10th stipulation of the A team establishes that the selection of a line path should be avoided unless clearly necessary, peaceful areas and areas of special protection under the terms of nature protection. The Commission believes that there will be a distinction between different areas which are already protected by the law. This is a non-violent area under the laws on nature protection or by special laws. There are also areas that have been registered to a natural mine without being emancipated and in addition to areas that have special protection under the laws on nature protection. The committee proposes a change to the 10th count. These tips came from various environmental organizations, and we considered them to be highly justified and taken into account. The 7th number includes the latter. The concentration and development of the transport system should aim to increase national energy output security with special emphasis on the areas with reduced energy security. It was noted on the matter that the amount of drop-off security varies from one side to another, most in the capital area, while at least in the national region, linked to the main rural transport system. However, the proposal does not define a specific target of confidence according to this number and therefore suggests a modification proposal in order to clarify the criteria. On one hand, all delivery sites will be provided in 2030 with a link that guarantees a breach in unit unity will not result in restrictions on delivery, while in the year 2040, all delivery sites in regional objects will be secured with a link that guarantees the same thing. The committee points out that unity does not refer to a strait stop or tea. Here is another adjustment we make, which aims to make this policy more purposeful so that it can be started right away. According to the proposal, the planned research and analysis, as previously proposed, shall be submitted to the Council no later than February 1, 2019. These include studies including to evaluate the practicality of aquifers, which have been subject to any doubt as to how best to do, and many have said that when assessing whether lines should be placed in the ground or in the air lines, there is not enough research. The committee inquired about it and wanted to have this time limit clear to make these studies the best, not the best, of some unrealistic date. The committee feels that it is too much time for research as much as a delay so that it will be on October 1, 2019. The committee also directed to the minister that in research or analysis there will be a way to assess biotime costs as well as stock costs. I want to put this point to rest, it is extremely important to consider whether to land or not to consider that the cost of life is measured, not just stock costs. At the same time, a proposal for a date in the C team is made for when the synonym will be reviewed. It seems realistic to aim for it to begin at the Fall Summit of 2019, but the proposal assumes it will be in the spring Summit. In other words, we want to wait for the results of these underground tests. A proposal suggests that some individuals can define further. For example, there is the concept of a key field, which in this context points to the committee on page 24. 52 for the Minister's report on electrical energy issues, 386th case, which contains a map that provides guidance on how to understand it. Otherwise, the committee points to a minister in the proposed revision in an effort to make expressions as accurate and as clear as possible. The Commission considers it important to consider better the safety of the electrical transport system at the time of a natural disaster and suggests that the addition of the new number to the A team in which the proposal will be adopted with the following change, that at the 3rd number of 15 in the A- team, which will be 16 according to our proposal, the addition of a new sentence, as follows: Ejafjörður area, Western and Southnes being put first. Then we suggest a change to the 7th party, including three new terms in relation to what I came in before, that delivery sites in the main transport system should be established by 2030 through a link that ensures that the block of single module does not limit the limit, etc. That's a lot of technical issues I'm not going to tire of, but I'm going to encourage them to read in the committee's opinion. In our proposal, 1c, the 10th figure is said to be: we select a line-line path for electrical lines, we need to observe that the reservations of peace-enforced areas under the laws of nature protection, areas that are protected by special protection and the legality of a staff of naturemins according to the 37rd. law on nature protection. It should also be avoided, unless clearly necessary, to specialised areas. law on nature protection. Here are the tips from the environmental organizations that I went back to. Then we suggest that we add new numbers, as follows: It is important to ensure electrical distribution and electrical security with regard to potential natural disasters. Finally, we make two adjustments in the timing of these studies and the review, as I agreed. A respectable president. As I came to the beginning, there was great peace in the matter. A professional committee, as well as my Director, Director Sigurður Rafney Magny Magnúsdóttir, Sæland Góland, Páll Trausti Jónsson, Elíasdóttir Friedbjörg Elisdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Sigurri St. Friðbertirsson, and Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u55	Mr. President. I don't mean to be long, but I'd like to celebrate, just like a boy. A pilot, that we have reached common ground in this case. This is a particularly important matter for the entire country, and it is important that it be well thought of. In this context, I would also like to thank you for your cooperation with other members of the committee, and I don't think that even if I say so in particular. The writer of the matter in this context. I might have liked to be even longer on certain factors, but I believe that we are responding to the biggest comments, and I hope this will be a good foundation for building on. Thus, to form a set priority rate and time - set target for drop-down security, which I think is a great improvement. As mentioned in this article, it is suggested that the case be reviewed at the Fall Summit of 2019 and that the time be used to make a special examination of the ground cord. The Commission also suggests that time will be used to consider what was stated in the reviews, if you examine the transport of electricity between land areas, and that transport capacity between areas could be aimed at a desired minimum ratio. I think it is very important in the context that the Committee continues its good work and that the Ministry and Ministers, Energy Institute, Landsnet and other stakeholders cooperate and work well together until then to ensure that the government's best policy on building the electricity system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u56	Mr. President. The proportion of the high-level electrical transport system that connects the main production areas is out of date and the transport capacity is too low. This is undisputed, I count, among all those who use machines. The time has come for it to be moved to modern times and actually beyond, for this system of transport is now at least 30 to 40 years old. There are billions of dollars at stake, both because of the type itself, what kind of electrical lines these are, and a line line line, where the lines are placed, and most not least because of the delivery capacity. I would like to note that this is the first time that the government's overall policy in the building of electricity transport systems is put forward, and this is another example of how government cooperation leads to basic policy development, which is the basis for further efficient work. I can give you more examples, just the energy policy, the whole energy policy for the country, and the tourism policy. Both are ahead. The structure of the transport system will be designed to allow a mixture of airlines and landlines to be discussed and line lines created in agreement with the environment and the real need for electricity transport to certain areas. That reminds me of the distribution system, i.e. The system has a lower level of tension, already based on a earth-separation decision. I'd also like to remind you that participants in the discussion and further policy agendas in these areas must examine the scope, repair and effectiveness of high-level ground cables. You see, it is nothing like what happens when much smaller electrical cables are placed in the low - volume distribution system. Then I am discussing the areas of sanctification, the many types of soil work, the explosions, and the beatings of rocks, if they are, but not the loose layers of earth, a life - bearing road along the planned geological system, and the countless such factors that are very important to include in the discussion when using machines about those items. It has been accomplished a great and thank - you work, acting in the preparation of this synonym and in the past. A professional committee, so I don't mention those who have worked with the contract themselves in the first place. I view the synoptic proposal as a significant improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u57	Mr. President. I want to come up and thank you for your cooperation with the Committee on this important and big matter, what it really is. The transport system of electricity is clearly one of the biggest issues in the council this year. This is a fundamental issue for developing countries and nations, but over the years and decades, at least During the past 10◯15 years, certain areas have had very bad conditions in these areas. This is a historical document, as it has been shown, and we hope to see beyond the next few years building a good policy strategy which will be used in a system plan and elsewhere to build up the system. More than a week ago, a new link was being dedicated to Theist smoke and Back, a new line, a Theist archipelago line, an example of how fast and how well this has developed for us in the past few years. They're about to build up the system and environmental factors and take in objects such as visual pollution and other services in the area. There's something you can work with. Then you hope that in the autumn, you will begin to build "Cats Line 3" from "Creatization" and "Dressional Form" and that in the following year you will begin working at Holasarndian Line from the Cruces. " I hope we're about to take a big step in that area. I just wanted to come up and mention this. Good work has been done on the job board on the subject, as well as on a number of exciting experiences. I think everyone is very excited about the project. We have many members of the Committee on Long-term energy Policy for Iceland, so we're working this thing where there's a very strong connection between issues. I'm glad we're finishing this today and putting up with the council that will be the first time that such a policy document is approved from here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u58	Mr. President. I recommend two committee opinions, but I do so in one speech, and I want to start by explaining it a little. This is because, on the other hand, this bill, which is a bill for equal treatment, regardless of race and ethnic background and, on the other hand, a bill for equal management of a labour market, is in many ways closely related and closely related to them and was worked together in a global and educational committee. However, they took into account two different groups, so two separate committees were to be taken into consideration. Those to whom the law will reach will be adopted are two distinct groups. It's easier for an outsider to understand the situation this way, but it's perfectly normal to have a conversation at the General Assembly. First, I'm going to explain the Committee's assessment of equal treatments regardless of race and ethnic background, but that bill suggests that a new global law on equal treatment is adopted regardless of race or ethnic background. The law does not apply to different treatments of individuals on the basis of state and statelessness, living on land, or family and private life. On the other hand, the law aims to counteract discrimination and to establish and maintain the equal treatment of individuals regardless of race or ethnic background. There may be no need to state this, but perhaps it would be nice to say that the committee received very many visitors and discussed the matter at a few meetings, but I'm not going to stretch out the time by counting it all up. All of this can be read in the committee's opinion. It is made clear in this legal hearing that violations of the law are indictable to the Committee of Equal Opportunities. At the same time, it's 5. The bill that an economist operates by the law and is referred to in the law on equal positions and the rights of men and women to the law that the law should apply according to what we are able to do. The Committee discussed the importance of a government agency's authority on day - to - day employment as regards serious violations of the law and not of such conduct. Here is an adjustment proposal to the bill to reiterate that understanding further. Six. The bill contains a warrant for those who feel that they are in violation under the law to seek the guidance of the Commission of Equal Opportunities. The Commission is particularly concerned that the NTSB is taking advantage of the warrant that she has already under the law on equal positions and the equal right of women and men to seek advice from specialist members after the implementation of the bill, because it is actually being extended by the law of law. It is very important that those handling this matter seek special knowledge. In the title of the bill, many people are struck by the term "race. " The committee specifically discussed this, and we come to realize that this term, in various ways, is out - of - date and out of date. Yet, it does have a legal meaning, such as. A international agreement for the removal of all racial discrimination. The committee agrees with the view that earlier ideas on race that a clear concept of biological appeal is no longer applicable, although this word is used to help fight prejudices that people face for various reasons. This bill covers only equal treatment regardless of race and ethnic background and was widely discussed in the Committee on the expansion of the concept. It is therefore proposed that a secretary should submit within one year to the General bill for a change in the law on equal treatment of individuals, as well as to beliefs, principles of living, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender characteristics, or gender in all areas of the community, except in a labour market. Finally: The bill was scheduled for the hearing on July 1, 2018, but because of where we have arrived in the calendar, the Committee suggests that the execution of the Agency will be postponed until September 1. There are several proposed changes to this bill, repeatedly to make a date, to take into account the implementation of a ban on discrimination in schools and children's institutions, the validation regulations changed, and the preliminary rules I have already made. The Commission on bill fixes equal management of labour markets. This bill suggests that a new global law on equal management of workforces is used and that the law is equal to the treatment of individuals in the labour market regardless of race, nationality, religion, principles of life, disability, impaired working ability, age, sexual orientation, gender characteristics, or gender, with the goal of working against discrimination and developing and maintaining equal treatment of individuals in a labour market, irrespective of those factors. The Commission reviewed Article 3. The bill can be found in the commentaries of various laws that are relevant to the law. It is, in fact, there. An explanation for the concept of disability. The committee was told that it was being used in an obsolete definition of disability, including the latter. in the context of the new release laws from the General Assembly on services to disabled people with long - term needs, where the definition is different and suggests that the committee will be changed according to the newly approved laws from here on earth. Then it was also pointed out that in paragraph 10. the bill, which is the headline of professional drivers for disabled individuals or individuals with impaired ability, is, in fact, a faulty translation of things that have been often called ◯reassable accommodation in the past and that the translation was applied more closely to the 3rd paragraph. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment The committee suggests that to further link the article with the United Nations Convention, there will be a headline of 10. turned to ◯Informable adjustment‡. The same is suggested by the recording of this bill, like the first, that it be prepared for September 1, 2018. So it is suggested in Article 3. changes the definition of disability, repeatedly becoming like in the second bill that daylight can be imposed. This is not a change; it is merely perfunctory in the Law text to the heading of Article 10. will be ◯Mable adjustment‡. Then there's a slight change in 1 1 1. and then change the date of entry. Hv. Senators Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir and Valdimarsson Steindordarsson were absent from the case but still signed this committee's opinion until the release. Under the count of both the General Information and Education Committee, why. Councilmen Steinunn Þóra, Director Páll Magnússon, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún Yearnad, Guðmundur Steindór Valdimarsson, Jóndídursson, Tothol Björn Einarsson, Willum Þórsson, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir. I suggest that the bills be agreed with the changes I've been aware of.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u59	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill for equal treatment regardless of race and nationality, as well as a bill for equal treatment of a labour market decided to be met and well. First thing I want to do is thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledot, a great deal of good work to bring together different viewpoints in this complex, good, and needs matter. I would also like to begin by saying that I am on both committee stains, though I may have been found to go further, especially when it comes to a bill to correct equal treatments regardless of race or ethnic background. I would have liked to see that we would expand this bill to cover more so-called differences, and I would have liked to see us do it right away. However, the land we reached is the provisional law, which is acceptable on my part. I will, of course, support the case as it increases the human rights of individuals in Iceland and brings us closer to the view that most of the nations we choose to compare with are under ban on discrimination and general discrimination laws, i.e. Banishing discrimination, and some form of resources for people who are discriminated against solely for belonging to a group without being able to do anything about it, such as for being queer or having disability or whatever it is. These groups have not received appropriate protection so far, and as a result, of course, I follow the law of the two bills. However, I must declare my frustration that a case that has been developed in the Ministry for the past 15 years has not been beyond the actual evidence at this point, especially since this bill was submitted quite exactly the same in the previous year. The same view showed that the bill could be extended to cover more differences. Like what? Þóra For Steinunn, the Sunni Árnadóttir of the Aged suggests that, with the permission of the President, a year from the validation of these laws of these lays on the World Council of Elements where the law is required to change not only the equal treatment of individuals irrespective of race and ethnic background but also, regardless of faith, principles, disability, sexual orientation, gender characteristics, or gender expression in all areas of the community outside the work market...-space, this is something that I think could have been achieved in the long term. In fact, it is a disgrace that it has not come into the law, and it may show how far in priority the human rights of these groups are and have been. We have done very well when it comes to the equality of the sexes and are very early in this regard, and, of course, we should rejoice. On the contrary, regarding the rights of disabled people and the rights of queer people, we are falling behind in all our comparators when it comes to protecting their rights. I'm really sorry, Mr. President, that we have no more interest in the human rights of these groups than we do. The matter goes around for 15 years without even getting paid, and now, when it happens, long before a considerable number of community groups are exposed to discrimination, it is not possible to get involved immediately, from the beginning. At the end, I want to remind you of a few things that I think we need to fix. There's a reason why I think it's important that we immediately add more groups into general discrimination laws. We watch, for example. on legal laws that still contain widespread discrimination, direct legal discrimination, against people with mental disorders and mental - health problems. There are various rights to handle the matter. It has the authority to use force without any perplexing views involved. There is no emergency, no such thing simply a warrant for the use of power on a very weak foundation. That's a direct discrimination against that group. I remind you that the law on abortion has not yet been changed, so it is still so in the law that a legal person can force an illegal woman to have an abortion. That terrible time error is still in our laws. I can also talk about how long it took us to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, quite extraordinaryly long, more years, because the rights of these groups are always ignored and not having priority. That's too bad. I also mention that there is still a restraining order against the psychic moment that shows that we do not have much respect for the freedom of expression. Finally, I'd like to make this a very good thing to do and I'd like to celebrate, please, let us do so in a way that will move us to do better in those matters and to pay more attention to the lawgiver to all the citizens of this country, not just some. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u60	Mr. President. I wanted to have a few words about these fine topics, such as those that are normally discussed here. First and foremost, I rejoice that we look ahead to this step. There have been significant contemporaneous efforts, some of which have been determined to overcome these issues, on the other hand, on equal treatment regardless of race and ethnic background, and on the other hand, equal treatment in the labour market. I would like to look at the latter in a few words. As stated in the Committee Department, the law takes equal care of individuals in the labour market regardless of race, ethnic background, religion, alive, disability, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender characteristics, gender language, and aims to counteract discrimination and establish and maintain equal treatment of individuals in the labour market regardless of these factors. So I look at and only talk about the issues of queer people, we Icelanders have had a certain error in our position there because we are very well - versed in social rights and are generally very far off on such matters. That's right, and that's good. But we've already been waiting for the time to introduce total legislation on equal employment status. This is clearly a very big and important step in that direction because under this umbrella - an appropriate word - is also the rights of queer people. But there is more. Lately, when we have been dealing with legislation to match the rights of these groups, the work market we address has been equal to the overall legislation on trans- and Intersex individuals. There we are sitting heavily behind, and it really does not justify our not having been long ago put into proper place, a natural and reasonable standard fit for our Icelandic, good society. The recent discussion of these issues has suggested that the government has talked about our doing this in one pack. We're going to do the basics for equal treatment with the right trans-and- Intersex population. It's been lying in the air somehow, even said so it's good to let the business of the Trans- and Intersex people hang on this big bill to make sure it goes through. But by presenting these matters to the spring but not the business of the Trans- and Intersex people--as my information is about to contribute it to the autumn Council--it is being understood here. Now, I'm not declaring any lack of trust in the government, but I want to make sure that once again the importance is not to be settled that we will relax these big cases if they are under law here. That we trust that the Icelandic public through the social rights and social status we have in gay affairs will be satisfied. That they may find themselves some other problem and that the list of legal rights to the trans- and Intersex individuals will be dropped because the projects are now enough. That's why I'm up to some point troubled by the fact that the wearout is right now. I have reason to believe that we'll all join forces and finish this case, put pressure on if necessary, and that the cause and rights of the trans- and Intersex people will be put in first place when Congress meets in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u61	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for the resolution of the policy-inhabilitation programme for the protection of nature and cultural memory of 2018-52029. The Environment and Transport Committee discussed the matter and came to meet together with Jón Geir Pétursson and Dagný Arnarsdóttir from the Ministry of Environment and Resource, the Government Bragason the European Union of Iceland's Union's Department for the Management of Social Affairs, Sigurðardóttir Huld Guðjón Valur and Sveinsson Hjaltalín from the Minjah Institute of Iceland, Hilmar G. Sverrisdóttir from Iceland's Natural Gunnar, Einar Pálsson from Vega, Auður by the National Protection, SigríðurBrynleifsdóttir and Betjörn Konða Björn from Góðsson Anna and Giversvóðsson. Then came the commission from Blue Forest, Tourism, National Farmers' Associations, National Protection, Guidelines for Guideliness, the Minja National Institute of Iceland, Reykjavíkurburg, the Union of Transportation Services, the Association of Nature Services, the Forest, the Environment, the Water Cold Nation and the Vegas. The national programme covers 12 years of age and is the first after a new building for the protection of nature and cultural memory, No. 20/2016, go into effect. The national programme includes the regular implementation of a three - year project program to determine which projects will be funded. The Committee considers it a significant step towards the development of the European Commission, including the European Commission. is able to plan a longer period of projects than previously possible. The aim is to face an urgent and urgent need for clear government policy on the issues of tourism, and most sources of information were positive to the fact that this important issue is being followed. Some comments were made, and it is appropriate to mention specifically, and the committee stresses the fact that policy development and implementation are being kept in mind. These include the need to explain the term more accurately to the places of travel and any stress that would be the main causes of nature and culture as a result of tourism and curfew. In this context, comments were also made about urban tourist areas and the lack of financial resources. Many of them are very pickled by tourists, although locals are generally not well - known as tourist attractions and are not advertised at all, but they use a lot of sources that provide recreation for tourists, such as northern lights, four - wheeled trips, horse trips, etc. Obviously, such activities come under intense pressure on the inside. There it was noted that it was important to consider linking to other government projects in the implementation of national programmes, e.g. that the national programme and transport programme should be harmonised in terms of the overall picture and cost of management. In addition, other public programmes, such as the protection policies for nature and culture, should be carefully considered. The committee emphasizes that this will be guided. Then it came to the view that cultural products are a secondary product in the strategy and that the oversight of administrative institutions may at times be vague in the conclusion. The Commission points out that the plan is intended to be a core for building structures for both nature and cultural memory protection and emphasis on the importance of cultural memory in the light of law No. 80/2012, on cultural level, on implementation and review of the programme. The importance of reflecting more clearly on how to build a planned tourist network using the majority of tourists, such as number of locations, how they would be selected, how minimal structure would be implemented, etc. The Commission agrees that it is important to identify what tourists in the country are seeking to see, and the challenges to the planning and development of tourism networks. In order to reduce stress at individual tourist attractions, the project will then have to support the government's policy on the distribution of tourists. The Environment and Transport Committee suggests that the proposal will remain unchanged. Under the heading of Director Bergþór Ólason, Chairman of Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Dr. Elíasdóttir Frildurfjörðurfjörðurfjörðurfjörðurofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofoft; Sævarsdóttir Sigigri Guðmundsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Hjaltason Líneik Ann Saevarsdótótir, Rósa Vilhjálmur Brynjolfólmótótir, and Árnason Áárnasson. Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u62	Mr. President. The strategy for developing infrastructure for protecting nature and culture - they can hardly be longer, the titles of Congress resolution proposals - is usually just called an internal program. A strategy is good news for tourism and environment. This is an efficient development strategy for activities that are distributed across the country by funding. There is reason to celebrate this funding, since it is more than 2 billion in three years. However, it can be said that better if necessary. It focuses our attention on the speciality of earnings to improve any action associated with the pressures of tourists. There have been discussions about coming or exorbitant expenses and other items, which are, of course, low amounts of money. And as a proportion of weekly trips within the country that can cost well over 200,000 dollars. this is not an obstacle, i.e. taking up some kind of coming or exodus of this kind. I'd like to remind you of the nature of the land for this occasion. There are many pressures and other things that can even be called messes, where people treat what they carry or do not clean up. To do so much better, it takes considerable money, money, and so on. It points our attention back to eruption, although there is something else in the maps, i.e. that earnings can be obtained in a way that is not limited to some special fees. I also remind you of our cultural monuments. That's especially when I'm talking about archaeology in the earth and in the sea. They may be thought of very well, and especially now with travel - related pressures in many places that may be known or unknown. One thing that needs to be added is an acceptable registration, especially collecting recorded artifacts into one bank. It's been an assignment for some time. When you remind yourself of nature and cultural memory, you're actually talking about the stability of our country and society and the related stress management that is just another word for the spread of tourists around the country. But there is also an upper limit in that as a community like Iceland can replace tourists for a good service. No doubt a revised and improved schedule is something that we will see in it. In other words, I'd like to use this opportunity and send a special thanks to a group of EICs and the Ministry of Environment and Resources. Similarly, it is a joy to witness the peace that was achieved at the moment. Environment and transport committee on this important strategy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u63	Mr. President. I recommend the National Committee on Environment and Transportation to legalize various laws due to international clearance of passengers' working conditions. The committee has discussed the situation and has been contacted by members of the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, the Association of Employment and the European Associations. There were also reviews from the Allied Union of Iceland, the Association of Professional Life, the Group of Societys on Sea Sports, and Iceland's Marine Society. With the bill, the International Jobs Agency is adopted by the European Commission on the working conditions of passengers in the United States to be able to maintain their international commitments to the validation of the agreed agreement. In the progress of the case, the viewpoint was that with the bill going beyond the need for international transport release, i.e. A clear distinction between passengers and fishermen would need to be made. In particular, three articles of the bill were referred to, but in this regard the committee noted that in chapter 5 of the topic with the bill, special attention is given to the above comments and that it is not thought that the proposed regulations are burdensome for sailors. In view of these observations, however, the Commission feels that it is proper to justify what is stated in chapter 6 of the report with the bill that is primarily responsible for securing the rights laid down in the approval of the International Labour Agency on the work conditions of passengers, but the bill certainly affects fishermen to the extent that changes are made to seaports, No. 35/1985, but the range of laws applies to all seamen working in Icelandic ships. The committee points out in the context that at the 96th Council of the International Work Programme in Geneva in 2007, employment was agreed on as a fish hunt and was Iceland among members of the council, but the approval has not been fully established by Iceland. This will include guidelines to be taken into account. to ensure that fishing workers have increased safety and health security at sea at work and that sick or injured fishermen on fishing have land - to - land care, have sufficient rest for health and safety, are protected by effective employment contracts, and enjoy the same social security as other employees. In view of its contents, and how similar it is to the international transport of passengers, it is reasonable that some of the changes proposed by the bill also apply to fishermen and not to passengers alone. It also came to the committee's view that the term "passer " does not include shipmates operating on whale sights or subcontinents that travel short distances from land or on sightboats used for seawater, rivers, and bogs on land. Furthermore, the so-called ILO release does not take ships less than 500 bridgetons and are not on international cruises, but if the bill remains unchanged, the bill will take to all boats used only for short journeys and are under the weight limit of the agreed. The committee agrees with that view and suggests that a new paragraph will be added to Article 12. The bill to respond to these views. Although the committee claims no safety demands on my boats, I believe it is extremely important that the committee agree on these sentences. Specific comments were also made on the terms of the 9th paragraph. about 2.5 days of holiday rights. It was noted that there are discrepancies between the accepted English version and the Icelandic translation, as well as the fact that the directive is actually unnecessary, where the existing law on holiday provides the rights laid down in the approved form. The Commission does not agree with a view to unnecessary regulations, including the need for minimum rights, the ban on subsidies of the subsidies of minimalorlfs and the authority of the Minister for Regulation, especially if there is a change in holiday law. However, the committee considers it proper to make a change of 1 mg. the law to meet these views. In view of the above discussion, why? The Environment and Transport Committee for the approval of the bill by the specified changes. Under the heading this article, President Bergþór Ólason, President Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Brjánsson S. Brjánnsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friðrisson, Jón Gunnarsson, Linikka Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u64	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal to legalize a change in passenger transport laws and transports by the country, No. 28/2017, on the authority of a passenger transport. The bill suggests adjustments in wording between 9 and 10. legal in order to eliminate any doubt that those who are planning to have passengers transport by automobiles that have fewer than nine passengers or special vehicles are obliged to have a CA permit, as well as a general access. In this case travel services are authorised to be passed on to patients. Before the committee, a number of people and reviews were sent in, and I would like to refer the relevant committee to information on this subject. The committee points out that driving without charge, which takes place in connection with services, is still permitted, as is the case with the regulations of 2017 and is not required for travel permits in those cases. An example is an invitation from a hotel to drive their guests to an airport, to a transportation center, to a car repair shop, or to a car offer to drive their customers back to work while the car is being repaired. The client has a choice to accept the invitation, and this does not affect the price of the service he is buying, e.g. A hotel landing or repairing a car. Notes were made on the 5 mg anyway. 1st par. Regulation (EB) No 37/2010: 1071/2009, which deals with common rules relating to conditions that must be met in order to be employed as a road transport vehicle and is the basis for the conditions required by transmitors in law No. 28/2017, would not be used to eliminate all transport within the country of the regulations of the Regulation and thus the regulations of the Regulation No. 28/2017 on leave, surveillance and penalties. It's 5 mg. 1st par. The Regulation is authorized to give the application to certain transporters from the measures set out in the nature of the defenses and short distances, however, this notation is expected in 2 mg. 1st par. track No. 28/2017. That's 3 mg. 1st par. Regulation No. 474/2017 assumed that certain transports are restricted because of the nature of the products transported. Regarding this, on the basis of short distances, the Commission agrees with the opinions of the Department of Transport and Regional Government. There may be considerable distances in this country, as well as general discharges on the basis of short distances, in order to eliminate the application of the Regulation here. Such a waiver would have required adjustment to the uptake of the model in the EEA Convention, but no such adjustment was made. It is not known that any Member State of the EEA has excluded all the domestic transport force of the Regulation. In connection with the political treatment of the bill, which became the law of No. 28/2017 had a informal consultation with the EFTA monitoring agency, which confirmed the Ministry's understanding that there was no basis for preventing the internal transport of the Regulation. The committee received comments on regulations 10th. for transport permits, both current and proposed changes in the bill, it was not consistent with the 2006/1233/EC service directive, which included the scope of the procedure. the requirement for the applicant's approval to have a work station in this country. The Commission points out that citizens established in accordance with one EU Member State's rules have the authority to render temporary service in this country, the government considers that services are temporary. The rules for passenger transport by car are not consistent in the European Economic Area and the Committee considers it normal for people with extensive national activities to develop in highlands and difficult roads, which are actively involved in competition with Icelandic companies to meet certain basic conditions, regardless of whether they have confirmed in Iceland or in another state in the European Economic Area. There are ways to ensure the safety of consumers and provide equal competitiveness in the market without excluding foreign parties from abroad to the market. So the committee suggests that 10th pars are added. The Act of Transportation Act allows the distribution of travel services to those established in the European Economic Area despite the conditions of Figure 1. 5. ... as other requirements of the law are met. Taking into account the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: We're on 2. a new joint will be added, as follows: 2nd. 10th par. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: Transport is permitted version of the travel service authorisation provided by this Member State established in the European Economic Area, despite the conditions of Figure 4 of 1.mg. 5. g., provided there are other conditions of this law met. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason, President Jón Gunnarsson, Vilmiram Árnason, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Gulänsson Brjánsson Brjánnánsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Línika Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u65	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a synopsis on the lack of taxation in pensions. This arrangement has been established by a bill submitted on January 24, 2018, of a change in income taxation law, 90/003, of taxation of pension. That bill says, by permission of the President: The bill suggests that remuneration of pensions due to costs that are not paid or otherwise added to pensioners who cannot support themselves without it [...] will be avoided under the tax laws on income taxes, No. 90/2003. In contrast with the disability of life, such compensation is not to improve the loss of pay because of lack of employment, but to meet the special expenses of a pensioner. Clearly, that goal is not achieved if much of the compensation is taken into account. In addition, her definition of taxable income has a chain effect because it reduces other compensations for low-paying pensioners, such as housing, special housing support, and child support. On the other hand, many pensioners who have high costs for disability or disease will experience significant changes if this fails. Seven points came up for the Economic and Business Committee on this matter. ASI handled the matter well, the older citizen's National Association supports the issue and points to the viewpoint of the Quantum Alliance, and supports it as well. The Bank of Human Rights has been sent in three missions and gives full support to the case. A business came also from the government tax manager and the insurance agency. So let's turn to the synonym, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers from providing a legal bill, no later than November 1, 2018, a release from tax-free pensions under social aid law, No. 99/2007. At the billing, we'll have the work to do, including... consult with Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister with the aim of ensuring that inadequacy of pension does not interfere with social security. In a report, there is even a difference between the two of us.: ▪ The definition of the conclusions suggests that financial and economic secretarys provide a bill to legalize the exchange of income taxation laws that ensure taxation of pensions, an abnormal taxation of individuals due to payments intended to cover their costs due to disability, motorization, or disease. At the same time, a minister is assigned to cooperate with a social and equal minister in order to ensure that the lack of tax will not lead to a decrease in social security payments to those entitled to pensions. Work will be evaluated for the need to make changes in social security laws, No. 100/2007, to secure the position of pensioners in this respect. A Economic and Business Committee has discussed 108th Parliamentary matters, a bill to legalize the change in income taxation laws, 90/003, taxation in pension, which is similar. Trackers of the bill are members of the Philly People. The Economic and Business Committee has described the support of the bill and has considered it unreasonable and unreasonable to consider that pension remuneration is taxed, as if it were payable without subsidies due to an exorbitant cost. A financial and business committee should be consulted for the management of the situation, as well as for the chairman of the Committee Óli Björn Kárason, for his work in implementing the Senate resolution proposal. I encourage this matter to be approved at the council. I believe that if we do well, this will be a Christmas gift to this group that would be well kept quiet because we're talking about the people who've remembered their hands and cost a lot of money because of illness or disability. In this context, I was in that belief, knowing that the matter would be accepted and that it would be reasonable to counter them for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u66	Mr. President. I am one of the partners of this case, and as a matter of fact, there are all the classes who sit at the council with the people. There was a lot of discussion in the Economic and Business Committee, and all of us inside felt that this was a justice issue. Some of the side effects, though, would have been by agreeing with the bill, so a search was made for a way to move the case forward and to live in a way that makes it possible to eliminate the injustice. Each person sees that tax taxes are intended to cover costs of disability, disability, or disease, and even reduce the benefits because there is strength that is an unjust trap and needs to be solved. I firmly support the matter, and I am very happy that the members of Stockholm's council held it up and opened the eyes of the others to the trap that had to be fixed. I hope this matter of Congress is cleared up, and it will be approved later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u67	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal to conspire on the lack of taxation in pension. Hv. The transferer Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson handled the matter well and attributed it to the fact that I don't have to do it. I think there's a reason to agree with what. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir, giving thanks to members of Philly's House for bringing this up and for his cooperation with the movers and business committees, found a way to get involved in the process that they will without fail run out for the benefit of this group. Hv. A senator knows, like me, that there has been a long discussion that includes a certain injustice to convince people to get support from the community in order to share in it, i.e. in cases of disability requiring tool support. That's why it's very important that we finish it. I don't know if I've come to the same Christmas party as that. A senator, of course, would do well to know that this would be accomplished by the highest degree. A minister would be assigned to present a bill for November 1st. At least. to be all conditions in order to be able to complete this matter as soon as financial laws are handled, made up of financial resources, and without any problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u68	Mr. President. This is an excellent proposal presented as a response to a particular problem on another very fine bill. Of course, the Pirats support this case, because it's a justice thing, like a rush. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir put it. It is only natural to stop punishing people for their need for equipment and other means of living a decent life. It should have gone through as a bill, of course. The bill was not flawless, but there was in itself no reason to change it with so - called changes, as we do in most other matters. I'm afraid this is a classic example of the government not considering allowing good things to go through if others are promoting it, but it is and that this has been a slow process that could have run out right now. However, it has to be said that rather than not doing so, it is better for us to be finishing our case in this way. I would like to commend the people for reaching those landings and have done very well in upholding this obvious justice issue during the council and making us, as it were. paritaprevir It was expressed by Oddný Harðardóttir, an example of how important this is. Otherwise, I wouldn't have figured it out. So in short, of course, this synopsis is to be approved now. Then a minister should bring it in at the specified time and preferably sooner if possible so that it can be completed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u69	A respectable president. Today, I experience a happy occasion at the Allied Parliament. The people sit in their first legion, and even though we can say that this is not a huge case that now comes through the council of good friends and good people, this is indeed a milestone, not just for the people's group, but for the entire assembly, because the woman who stands here has often said: "Let us join together, no matter where we stand. " That is exactly what we are witnessing today. This is exactly what good things happen, and they will be possible, but they will definitely happen if we stand together, all in one place, working on them faithfully and in love. That is all that is needed, a good will for the work, and, in this case, the will was truly a thing, and it had come to everyone's knowledge that there was a real justice here. There are many more matters of righteousness that we will share together, I believe, that we may not yet have accurate knowledge of, as it were. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy pointed out earlier. I thank him for his beautiful, warm words, as well as for others here who have spoken. So the practice makes perfect, so long learned who lives, and it applies to us here that is taking our first step as lawgiver, taking part in our legalistics, that we learn step by step. I say again, good things happen slowly. And for our people, although Christmas isn't exactly around the corner, we can expect it on November 1st. At the latest, this bill has been measured, the law will be passed before Christmas, and the group of people mentioned will truly receive Christmas, not just from the mob, but from the whole General Assembly of Iceland. I'm just saying, "Thank you." It's a beautiful day, and it does a lot of good for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u70	A respectable president. I agree with others that it is a pleasure to see this matter come true. Even if we have had to change this slightly so that it would be successful, we have a concierge that involves that a minister is commissioned to present a bill for a specific date, a great victory in itself. Like others, I congratulate the members of Stockholm's people. The Senate resolution is on behalf of the Central Party why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, the highest. Mr President right now, so he can't talk about this fine thing. So I come up to reiterate our Middle Class will to continue working on improving the ideal and simple system, if I may use it here, the highest. President, because we could use some. There are very few people in this country who understand how our welfare systems really work. I think most of us can agree that we're kind of a bunch of nonsense. As the system is today, we make it very difficult for people to get on and on. This is a good step toward working back the rights that we would like for elderly, desperate, and others who need our community service to have and have. Again, this example shows that we can have certain results if humans simply stick together and see the importance of the matter. It may be the biggest victory in this case that I have opened the council's eyes to the importance of this matter and how important it is that we continue on the road to repealing them irresponsibly, I allow myself to use that word, the injustice which involves so much of our system, whether it's impaired or if people are paying taxes from revenues they've already paid taxes by etc. We'll have to win it in the right direction, and I'd like to congratulate a 1st importer on getting it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u71	Mr. President. I'm going to start by wishing the 1st member of this council-sounding proposal to congratulate you, okay? paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson. I think this is an example of how hard - talking and hard - work is producing significant results. It's not a problem yet, I realize that, on the other hand, it's quite clear that a very clear message is contained in a paper that comes with the Congress resolution. It's a message from the council, a message from a financial and business committee that agrees with the opinion that we must eliminate the injustice involved in saving money, but we must also make sure that it will or will not suffer the tax benefits of such efforts in other ways, e.g. In terms of damage to the social security system. I'd also like to thank the Party of Stockholm for taking the stand to deliver the case in this way, ensuring its progress. The council's message to the government, and especially the highest. The financial and economic secretary is clear: we will expect and will follow it closely after the reflection of the bill or the bill of this material. I think that so much support, harmony, is in the hall that we can hope for it without being optimistic that it will be completed before the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u72	A respectable president. All I want to do is come up in a moment just to wish the party party of the Gangs and, in particular, their 1st concierge, w. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, congratulations on how this case has been won. The point is, as we have seen, not at the ultimate point, but to the point that much can be done if it does not work out in the way that men first set out. I reiterate that I sincerely congratulate you. That was a nice move.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u73	Madam President. I agree with other members of Congress when I wish. 1st manifester of this proposal, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, congratulations on the phase that is hopefully being reached here. What a fine example is the transnational stand taken over the proposal! It is a very good matter. This is an obvious legal case in which we commit financial and economic ministers to ensure taxation in pensions where people obviously get compensation to make up for the cost of their status. We have a number of examples of such taxation in income tax laws, but this is a big issue of rights for that group, and it is of great importance, as it is of the extremely poor people in general. Therefore, it is a pleasure to see the extent and degree of agreement that has developed during the council, and it follows the clear desire of a Parliamentary minister of finance to give the bill of this material rapidly and safely to a council in the fall and no later than 1st of November. It is a joy to reach such a milestone, but of course, we rejoice even more when we have approved our bill in the winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u74	Madam President. I agree with those who have come up and celebrate this council plan. It is a good, happy matter for you to share in working with. These include those who carry a detailed item from a table today and are being strengthened by their lack of income. It'll make their interests better, so I'll celebrate that point. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u75	A respectable president. It's a big day in the history of Stockholm when it's within reach that our first language will pass through here and become a law, this matter of taxation in pension. With the permission of the President, I'm going to read the council members of the council resolution, they are the members of the group's group; The Ingi Ind Kristinsson, Projective Director, Sæland Gaand, Þorsteinn Hjaltason Ólafur Sæmundsson, and then one member of the council here at the council; Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Hallólda Mogensen, Harðardóttir G., Þorsteinn Kárason Kásson, Þíldæmömundsson, and Víglundsson. It's a big day, like I said. It is a matter of reasonableness and justice that affects a few thousand people, in fact. It's not a lot of money, it's not, it's not, but it's a matter of justice, and one of the more justices that we from The Gang of the People think we're coming into this council. Men will see more of these at the next council, and we are very grateful for the fact that all classes and members of the council have moved behind us. I especially want to thank the head of the Economic and Business Committee, what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, for his contribution, as the people soon saw it on the Economic and Business Committee that this was a great deal of justice. There were, however, some who saw discrepancies in the system, i.e. In the tax system and in the insurance agency, that there should be a better look at things, and that is why it is now in the form of a plagiarism where the entire General Assembly is behind the proposal that I expect to receive, when it is presented by all classes. Its content is in short terms that financial and economic ministers are assigned to submit a bill to correct this by November 1. I'm expecting this to be legal by the next Christmas, then to be the Christmas gift of the Gangs to our voters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u76	Madam President. It is indeed a very pleasant moment that we experience here today. I am very happy and very grateful. The people's business is not least the fighting in behalf of those who have nothing and are forgotten in this society. This case has been the fight of Iceland's Environment. We took it upon our arms with that result, let me say that the Council has joined us in this. I am very grateful to all those who have helped, and I am very grateful to all who have helped in this matter. I want to, like other speakers on our part, to thank especially the head of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, I thank the members of the Economic and Business Committee and thank you very much. Councilmen who are partners for the council's hearing proposal. Thus, the will of the Council is clear, and in this case, in this case, I would particularly like to thank those who have addressed the matter and underline it in their speeches. Economic and economic Ministers, the fact that this case is presented as a bill at the latest of November 1 so that there will be plenty of time for it to be measured and put into committees and finally, I will allow it to be said, as a law from the High Council. Thank you so much. What a joyful time that is!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u77	President. I just wanted to come up and thank you for the fine landing. I'm glad we're not here punishing the users of performance-based substances and that we're taking steps in order to reduce the risk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u78	A respectable president. I'm in favor of this bill's objective, but there's still a lot of peculiarities in it. It is a sign, such as many of the prime products that are being discussed today, that they may not be fully occupied. The most peculiar, though, is 3rd par. ... ina bill from the highest. A health minister is a legal entity that requires instruction on a specific subject. It must be quite new that the minister of one lawsuit ship for what other minister should do his job and at the same time that the minister of one group of litigators decides by law that instruction should be given on a matter without an explanation of how this instruction should be carried out, how it will be financed, who should be given it, or anything else. Anyway, I'll say yes to the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u79	A respectable president. I'd like to allow me to welcome the steps that are taken with this suggestion in the pursuit of harmonization rather than criminalism. I hope this is one step of many. There is a report from a transnational group that suggested that we take the lead in doing harm rather than the damaging penalties we have practiced against consumers of any sort that have not been on the platform with the authorities up to this point. I'd like to celebrate the kind of solidarity I believe I see toward the loss of the council and thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u80	A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir came in here, taking steps to reduce the harmful outcome, which is very positive. There is also no problem with punishing users, and rather stressing that those who sell, manufacture, and import such substances are responsible for at least that part of the problem. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u81	President. I'll be right up, once again. It's great that we're finally going to see a burger. I'm very happy that this is going to be the Committee for the future. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Prime Minister, I hope that this committee will be established as soon as possible and that she will receive the tools and funds needed to carry out the assignment well. This is an important project for the future. Thank you for your solidarity. I'm excited about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u82	A respectable president. I stand at the majority of an aluminium with a paradox that is one of the off-limits in which you feel your name is not quite appropriate because we are continuing to refer the proposal to further progress in a field that I think will be very effective in identifying the pros and shortcomings of citizens and how this ideologies can penetrate the future in this country. I am very happy with my work on a welfare committee, and I look forward to seeing what happens at the job that will take place after this payment. [[Foreground on: Prefect?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u83	Mr. President. I am following the proposed changes to the government committee. Of course, I vote by it, hoping that the future committee will take the matter into consideration. However, I must state to prevent misunderstandings, that by that which I vote, I do not accept the idea very well. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] However, I do not deny that the matter will be examined even if I confess that in advance, I have a great deal of prejudice toward this idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u84	A respectable president. Looks like everything here needs a little explanation for the room. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is a deduction proposal that I join with Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, a member of the welfare committee. We agree with the main objectives of the bill, but we agree with a client such as an agent of children who say that as much changes in child law should be considered professional and interests. We would like to be the more cautious party in this regard and direct the bill to the Ministry for further discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u85	A respectable president. I agree with what. the candidate of this proposal. All of us want to strengthen the right of children to know their origin and so forth. I believe, however, that this change, as already indicated at the Senate document on this topic - the text actually doesn't work out, so I feel it is inevitable that at least To what? Name again between 2 and 3. Um... i.e. if it cannot be agreed to dismiss the case - preferably an extensive one without searching for anyone's point of view. I take, for example, that the Ministry of Justice has not given any comment on the matter, it has not been requested. I suggest that the dramatic change presented here should be done in a more thorough and better consideration of those who have become familiar.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u86	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating that we're voting on this great legal matter and that it's finally getting this General hairdo. This has been discussed in the council many times, and we have received a number of parties at a meeting of the Committee. However, it has been pointed out that there is one word that needs to be changed in this article so that we do not alter the rights of those with the rights. I've made a three-year motion for the rest of the bill. ... andshewillcomeback tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u87	Mr. President. In fact, here's why. The Economic and Business Committee is being proposed to set up a slaving board. The bill will appear in the fall of a new budget for the highest executives, which will follow the results of a government committee in January. It suggested that an arrangement in this country be implemented for what is going on in the Northern countries where the highest government pay is linked to pay on public markets. I hope this can create an added agreement in the labour market on the pay of highest officials. At the same time, I'd like to say, because of the changes made in the bill, that I will vote against it, as well as in a government report - where all persons, except one, agreed that it would not be wise to start reducing pay in a retrospective way, that the pay of those under the Board of Staff is unchanged this year - for which their average pay development of groups will be in terms of pay development in a general labour market in 20132018. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. Councilmen to keep in mind the facts presented in this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u88	Mr. President. The adjustment proposal made by the Pirantics has nothing to do with repeated pay reduction. A retrospective law, a law that impairs people's rights once more - a principle in a Western legal way back to the Roman Republic that we do not do that. That's not what's being suggested. On the other hand, what is being suggested is that the salaries'wages be reduced temporarily, as the prime minister notes. This will be corrected sometime at the beginning of 2019 C.E., after six months at least until our pay is corrected. We've had this raise since the Council of Elders, a year and a half. This is corrected only by stewards and members of Parliaments, in line with the possible pay development that should have taken place, and it is good for a prime minister to admit that we did more than our pay development. Many other aspects of this matter are very good. We're going to go to yellow because there's something we've mentioned. This bill came late into the council, comes directly from a committee, a small discussion, almost nothing worked on the committee, so we will sit by in this regard. Our talks have pointed out opinions that might be dangerous, and people can only look at the talks because I'm done with my time. [[The president calls.]] But there are many good things to do about this. I hope that people will accept the adjustment, so we get right away, but we don't have to wait until the next year for the payful development of the highest executives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u89	A respectable president. This case, like any other matter that we vote for here tonight, bears all signs of virtualness. I believe it is safe to conclude that most people, even all members of Congress, agree to make changes in their advice and even put it down. However, the fact that governments, or in this case more part of the Economic and Business Committee, will make this proposal at the end of the council suggest that an arrangement be suspended before what is taking place, is very strange. These are not good tactics, a respectable president. Let us just say that what would take place would be worse than the arrangement we now have, in the opinion of at least some members of the council. Why, then, should people now agree to replace the existing arrangement without knowing what will take place? This is a very strange practice, and as a result it is not possible to vote with this proposal despite, as I mentioned earlier, that in general, I think, a position among members of Congress that these changes need to be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u90	A respectable president. The decision of a conquistador has affected a large group of elected representatives other than members of Congress and Ministers, mainly local representatives. It would be unwise to make that decision now, i.e. to accept the change to the bill, in view of the fact, and also in view of the fact that already a job has already taken place, called the prime minister's opinion, the bill will be submitted in the autumn, with a collective review of these issues. So, I'm going to vote for the votes against the new proposal but with the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u91	Mr. President. So I'll read up and explain exactly what we're going to vote on, with President's permission: The addition of a new provision to temporary use is as follows: The Council shall include, for July 1, 2018, (7) - that is, due to the removal of a collective board at that time, at this time, in the summer of June 4, 2013 - that is, a new decision consisting of a decrease in the pay rate of the general body members, and a minister (only to mention that they have the last possibility - ◯ That their pay is related to a general pay outlet development from 11 June 2013 - that is because of a majority of employees, 70% of the workers in the general labour market, they had to agree to try to make peace in this community in terms of pay development. - The decision shall be fulfilled no later than July 1st, 2018. This doesn't apply to the President of Iceland and the judges. In the rest, it's just that we're talking about those people who got this rise on the Day 2016. If we agree with this, we will immediately correct our pay on the basis of pay that we were always going to aim for, not backward, we will keep the money we received from the graduation date of 2016 - of course, not because I filed with them to sue a board and the decision will be made at the end of this month. [[The president calls.]] People can watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u92	V.E.G. President. This proposal is pretentious. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u93	A respectable president. We're about to vote for a community plan. There I proposed a new proposal, setting out a clearer objective and forestry programme. Change is about forestry. I don't think it's an acceptable nation whose conscience has decommissioned the forest that was here during the land mines to shrup when the opportunity to recover fragments of the forest that was here at that time is just like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u94	Mr. President. As I've so often entered, genreism is a basic policy in the state. I remind you of the importance of a secretary's strict adherence to the guidelines that in all public policies and plans, there will be an impact on the development of individual communities and habitats. However, as we discussed in the Senate hall earlier today, the fact is that a number of projects in the program are not financed. So, in the United States, we have a little bit of concern that there will be less of a project than would be desirable. However, we feel that the matter is important and will support it in our vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u95	A respectable president. I come up first and foremost to thank the Committee for a good job in providing a structured program, as well as all other members of the body that I listened to who participated in the previous commission. And again today. It is clear that in the hall, there is a keen interest in a structured program. This foundation plan is I think it's safe to say the most complicated thing we've ever done. It has gone through more consultations than most others have, is better financed and better built. It also has standards and tools to ensure that it will be followed up with both information given to the council and a discussion in the realm of the government and in the community. I wanted to come up first and to thank you for this, even though we haven't begun to vote, I heard the tone in the council today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u96	A respectable president. There are two changes in the case. One is from the greater part, and that adjustment will be my support. The other is from smaller parts, and that change will not be supported by the fact that the material is actually included in the change in the development of the majority of the segments that drew on their work significantly more emphasis on forestry from what lay ahead when the proposal was proposed. Achieving the target and the greater part shows that forestry has the unique role of being a key component of climate action as well as being a key factor in commercial development in the long-term scattered areas of the world. I'm sorry, but I don't feel that the change in the smaller portion, a suggestion for a new deforestation procedure, is actually not quite a factor in the plan, so it's actually a bit complicated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u97	Mr. President. Here I suggest the simple change that instead of the baby born here on the land of the state, you have to wait three years to get a citizenship, it just needs to wait on one. This makes me feel like the international commitments we're making with these laws, which do not require newborn babies to wait for three years after receiving citizens' rights. It states only that the laws of the land predict that children can receive citizenship at birth. I've come to agree with the view that it can be natural to wait just to give a stateless or planned stateless child a state address in Iceland because it could prevent the child's own citizenship, but I think that one year is too great to find out about it, and three years full for as important rights as having a citizenship. That is why we make this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u98	A respectable president. We vote for an action form to address the factors that explain the best pay of the sex in the Icelandic labour market, i.e. how sexually it is and how systematic women's classes are less paid for a job market when it comes to education and responsibility. For us, there are two adjustments. On the one hand, the adjustment is an adjustment in the smaller portion, which is a minor change from the original synonym. I'll back her up. The adjustment proposal for the greater part in this case, and I'm sorry that the Committee has not met the whole case, adds that I don't know anything about what is already done at the labour market, assuming that they will be able to perform a sex-remuneration analysis performed regularly by Iceland's Office, and looking to the experience of rural status, which is another word for the equally paid contract that has already been legal at the labour market. So I don't think that much good will be the result of this adjustment, and as a result, it will be accepted in that form. I strongly encourage a body of Congress to agree to take gender amounts in the labour market with the approval of the less part.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u99	A respectable president. In this country, the contribution made by women, women's rights, the work of women, and the education of women is indelibly underestimated. This suggestion is a bold and radical attempt to address the root causes of the problem. I'm thinking change is up to the point. The majority of the committees have agreed to destroy the case. It does not even mention women's classes. I encourage the Parliamentary World to submit to this change proposal but support the adjustment of the proposals of the less part of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u100	A respectable president. Sometimes I think that people sit in a living room and don't quite understand what we disagree with, that here's the whole U.S. Senate saying we're going to take steps to improve the quality of women's classes. The only difference is that the representatives of the smaller section want Bjarni Benediktsson to lead work towards the national level while in the greater part we're living on a practitional tool, the job assessment, which is not the same as the pay certificate, but a much more powerful tool that goes into the pay of large units, such as Reykjavíkurburg. As a result, the pay differences between the sexes have almost disappeared from the city, and we want them to be treated by the State. I want the majority of the proposal to have a course of resistance because there's much more meat on those bones.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u101	A respectable president. I must express my frustration, I would say the lack of courage in the council to face the real problem here. I reiterate my earlier words that I consider the change in the size of the small part to add what is already done at the labour market in that sector, but no matter how weak it is, I support, of course, all efforts to eliminate the sexual pay in a labour market and to vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u102	A respectable president. I took my story to committee party why. Today the level of solidarity within the committee on this subject was covered by a professional committee. I have to repeat my compliments to my colleagues on a professional committee. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to give my best commendation. Minister of the jury for putting in such an ambitious plan, and the Ministry worked well with us to promote our proposals for change. I'm gonna let me believe that we're in that place where we can use this opportunity to put Iceland's real policy in everything, it's easy to deal with energy issues in the next few days. V.E.G. There was a minister for the Senate resolution of the energy exchange proposal during the last term, and now she has arranged a team on energy policy policies. I think we can make peace with our community on the future energy issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u103	Mr. President. In this and another vote on related matters, we vote for what has often been called the discriminatory law. If the two primes are approved, the rights of people belonging to peripheral groups in Icelandic society will be greatly increased and the people will receive a very large legal compensation. I want to thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for a good conversation and cooperation in the processing of the issues. I don't like to thank you very much. Social Affairs Minister for enforcing a provisional principle that will be agreed upon by the directive, that the standard for equal treatment regardless of race or nationality will be extended. A minister then arrives a year from the execution of these laws with a bill extending to an even larger group, thus improving the rights and rights protection. [[The president calls.]] This is a very important thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u104	Mr. President. This bill provides a fine example of how well - intentioned becoming a community engineer in the belief that we can solve all the world's problems, all the problems we face. Unfortunately, we're on the wrong track. What I fear will happen with this bill and what will come to pass is that we find out the constitutionrs of rights that are sacred, but in 65rd. it says that all will be equal to the law and enjoy human rights without regard to sex, religion, belief, ethnic background, race, color, economic, tribal, and otherwise status. When we believe that there is a reason to enter into law what is guaranteed in the constitution, we will dilute the constitution and its meaning. [[The president calls.]] This bill does not add to what is stated in the constitution and other laws. That's why I can't support the highest bill. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u105	Mr. President. I was going to come up to discuss this vote, but I really have to answer the ignorant bullshit that came from whence. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u107	Here you go. [[Up front.]] This will not find out anything, for we have established various laws on various rights, e.g. the right of property to many members of the community. A senator is very interested in this, and he does it only to strengthen legal rights. What comes out of that law, however, is, of course, much more right now for people to seek their rights in a more inexpensive way from a judicial committee, something that is missing in which not everyone can afford to consult their legal rights. Here we come to administrative measures to counter-discrimination in Iceland, which has been missing. In this regard, we are submers of the nations, and this is a legal step. There is no weakness of the rights in it hidden, only strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u108	A respectable president. All right, everybody. Senators must agree on the objective of this bill, but as a matter of course. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason pointed out very well earlier, the rights the bill is intended to ensure in the past in the existing law and in the constitution. The lack of vision, the lack of new issues, may indicate that she is trying to decorate herself with the feathers of previous generations, to recycling matters, to accept what other members of Congress have already brought into law, to the legal rights that other members have already brought to law and to the constitution. It is not that if a certain group is not specifically mentioned in the law, that they should have the same justice, he is not justified. All individuals should have equal rights by the Constitution of Iceland. In fact, the fact that in particular all groups need to be mentioned in order to enjoy the rightness of doing so is harmful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u109	A respectable president. I have to agree with those here discussed in this vote on how it has been shown to those who have called for an explanation of what rights are not protected according to current rights which are being added according to the legal requirements. Without any clear answer to this, it is difficult to agree that there is a lack of this law, i.e. that there is a special need for her. This, of course, puts in a special position that considers the right to be there, but that this is simply not a good law that we have in our hands when it comes to taking a stand on all the rights that are then listed. Rather, they simply ask: " Why do these laws now come into play in view of the right things to be right? [[The president calls.]] As a result, I feel that I have not received a valid answer during a congregational discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u110	A respectable president. As soon as we settle this case, I want to thank you very much. The General Information and Education Committee for good work on the case and, in the course of the case, in the course of the case, Árnadóttir Þóra Yearsy, saying that the comments that have been made have been answered, I suppose, in the progress of the case on the committee, which is all I see. Depending on the discussion, a lot of debate might be made, but under the committee's opinion, representatives of all political parties who are members of the committee seem to be on the issue. Part of the solution is to set up a provisional law that includes the expansion of these laws and the inclusion of more groups and those committed by the Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which will be submitted to the General Assembly within a year from the taking of these laws. I want to state that I will contribute my share to make sure that it does. I'd like to congratulate you on the fact that this bill is getting through and in particular that it's in such a great deal of agreement from the Committee that the representatives of all political parties are on the record. [[The president calls.]] This shows how well this work is done on the committee and especially on the prominent Árnadóttir Þóra. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u111	President. I'm celebrating this future prime event. Indeed, it is important to ensure that the right groups of people are always right. Despite us, many fine constitutions are groups that are not specifically specified there. These are discussed in particular in this bill, including groups with regard to gender, gender characteristics, and sexual expression. The reason why I come up here while celebrating this is to declare a certain disappointment that at the same time there should not be legislation on the issues of transversian and intersex, since for a considerable time these packages have been spoken of as being together. I'll figure it out. A health minister has these issues and has talked about the appearance of a bill in the fall, which is good. Nevertheless, I express concern because while working on this collective case, the importance of all of this has been spoken extensively. I'm going to take this opportunity to say that I sincerely hope that a large and large task list is at its height. Healthcare Ministers do not allow transnational and international affairs to collapse on top of the priority list, now that this bill has become legal, as it turns out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u112	Mr. President. It might even be so that I use the right way to vote on this case. I want to thank you. A top-of-the-art Board for work on the case and the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Affairs for bringing the case before the council. This has been in preparation for a long time on the European Commission and I know it's a former senior. Socially and then the minister of housing, Eygló Harðardóttir, worked very hard in the progress of the situation at the time. I personally set it up on two occasions, but unfortunately it was not possible to complete it at the time. I am very happy that the matter has come for the end of the council, and I also welcome the discussion here that it is important to take a further step. I hear the talk and words from the top. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities that we need not fear that this will not be done and will even deal with them further steps in this important matter as early as autumn.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-75.u113	Mr. President. This is a bit of an odd thing that's about to happen here at the hearing of these cases, where I was in the meaning that this case was taken from the highest level. Government, but there seems to be some misunderstanding that there is a unity within the government on the issue. Then I feel like a little strange language that no law can be passed in the constitution. Then I think we'd have to clean up and clean up in the law library if it was the law and the interpretation of the constitution. We have a law on equal positions between men and women, and it was being agreed upon as if working had to be as good as men and women. According to this, the Constitution says that everyone should be equal to the law. Shouldn't we just go home, Mr. President?
