ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u1	Borist has a letter on the reinstatement. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson calls for a question again on a threshing floor. 3110, case No. 279, for external expenses for public projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u2	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 91, for advice and for temporary or limited work, from Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u3	V.E.G. President. I come up here again once more to look into President's eyes for a query that I proposed to the Ministry of Social Affairs in March. For a number of reasons, due to a delay in reply, I had to submit the same sort of query again at the beginning of a council that has to deal with the highest resources of the apartment loans. If I remember correctly, at least. Otherwise the president corrected me, has not even been asked to postpone an answer to this inquiry since September. I don't know what it's all about. I don't know if there's any other way to get a character protection that's more useful to them than what came to us that Peron Protection didn't make the impression that their names and companies are being made public that have been allowed to buy the full resources of the apartment loans. Ten years for 57 billion bucks. I don't know what goes on with the Department of Social Affairs, asking the President that the government, which is guided by the granting of Generalis, will live by his word and answer this inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u4	The president will follow up on the answer to the inquiry, as well as on whether the request has been made to answer later and to inform them. A senator on the result of that effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u5	A respectable president. I hope to the highest. The president is following this closely, since the story of this case has an extraordinary story, such as that of the Lord. paritaprevir Sæmundsson traced in an article published in Science yesterday. This case must improve all the levels of delays, not just for length, but at the highest level of performance. Ministers, especially, have been able to delay the matter and keep it quiet and try to make it disappear. In view of the way all of this has been held, it seems that the more important these answers are to be found. Now I'm the highest. A president uses the answers not only to ask opinions but also to get an answer from the Ministry that they ask for even more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking the President for saying he's going to try to use himself to try to get some answers from the Ministry on the consequences of this inquiry. Certainly, it is unlikely that a minister will get away with this, in fact, since March of this year, that members of the council need to renew their inquiry because the minister has been reluctant to answer it. If the Ministers get away with this, we need to see if we need to change some laws and rules regarding their duties to answer the General Assembly, answer the legal agreement. Besides, I don't understand why the Minister is dragging his feet into this. Of course, it would be very clean and better for Ministers to present themselves, unless this is something that is bad for the Council to know. I can't believe it has information that's uncomfortable for the generals to know. I can't believe there's anything else left behind, so I'm the highest. Minister to all good works of it. The secretary must take firm measures on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u7	Mr. President. I want to agree with them. Councilmen who have spoken. It's completely unpleasant to me. Congress officials will have to wait so long for answers to questions that are relevant for the Senate work in one way or another. This isn't the only time this has happened, though there are quite a few months under here. I got one, for example. that summer, more specifically on July 18, after asking for five months, the answer to questions at the highest level. Financial and economic secretary for the processing of Panama documents. It would also be good for us to examine which language is especially the highest. Ministers are drawing the answer. Is it a delicate matter? We have the same right to receive clear and clear answers to sensitive issues as well as others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u8	A respectable president. I don't know the subject of the inquiry that's being discussed, but I'm sure you'll agree with the senator that there's a need for communication between the council and the government. On the other hand, I would like to use this opportunity to raise the issue that we have different ways of calling out responses from the control system. There are certain rules about how to apply yourself for e.g. Reports. At the council, there is a vote for whether a request should be made. For queries, you will be given a certain amount of time. Then two factors I would like to mention in particular because when it comes to asking questions, it is of course decided that there is some scope in the inquiry that is practical to react within the delay. Otherwise, we must be talking about a request that is beginning to resemble a report request. [[The president calls.]] There I think we have a lot of work left to do at the council, talking about the line between us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u9	Mr. President. I come up here to say what has been said about the incompetentness of the response to inquiries, especially when discussing matters that are important to us all, the entire public in the country, so important. We're talking about how our system works and if there's any crime at all. I'd also like to draw only attention to one thing, i.e. that it seems rather vague whether or not this sort of inquiry will survive a solemn hearing. There does not seem to be total harmony there. Sometimes the answers are coming in summer. At times, the inquiry must be repeated and even suggested that there is a need for a new report when a new assembly meets. This is not only to the rather recent senator but also to the older and more experienced members of the council seem to receive very misleading information in this regard. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the Agency's information and surveillance role is one of the most important roles in the council, and we have to fix this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u10	The president has already considered this, but the matter is not relatively complicated. If a petition is made to one specific legislature, the answer to that inquiry, whether by mouth by a minister, may continue as long as meetings continue or written as long as that council remains. After the council is completed and a new council takes over, the written answer will not be given as a Senate document, for there is no Senate case to answer. The request or request needs to be updated. The same applies to reporting requests, which in themselves can be distributed even if a new legislature started, but this report will not be a matter of Congress in the traditional sense. If it is to be discussed at the General Assembly, it will be discussed as a verbal report by a minister, although printed. It's that big.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what others have said here and maybe make a little better. On February 21, last, I had an inquiry to the minister of justice in oral language. Since it may have been a little extensive, the minister urged me to send the inquiry to a written answer that I followed, exactly like, materially just like, the same text as that. The answer to that question was not yet received during the last assembly and has not yet been received. This is a question that has actually been locked up since February, when it all comes down to it. Since we had oral answers during the queries class, I thought the answers would only be cut and taped what could not be answered - yet the answers have not been received. So it's a bit of a big problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u12	V.E.G. President. In celebration of the statement, the highest. A minister of finance would like to know that the matter of this inquiry was made so clear to the council that it was sent just before the Senate, saying that the council was a self - induced example of whether the answer should be distributed or not. Of course, because it is not the council to censor the minister's answers or whether they should appear in general or not, the council sends them back to the minister. What I want to draw forward is that the answer to the inquiry is available. We're ready for the Ministry. All you have to do is send it back to Generals and publish it. Therefore, I still understand that this answer, which has remained before the beginning of September or earlier, has not been sent in the days since it had been completed. That's why I'm asking the highest. For the President to handle the matter firmly, because it's intolerable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u13	V.E.G. President. You see, I'd like to intertwin this point. paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson came in earlier. The answer lies ahead and has been in existence for a long time. Then to make a long story very short: That wasn't a complicated question. The answer has come. This has nothing to do with whether the question should have been a report request, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u14	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the President very much for the lesson. The teenager loves it when the trial ball teaches a seminary and how things work out at the council. There is, however, one thing to be amazed at, and this is the subject of reports. For a report request, e.g. A decision to win this decision will not stop work or will continue to stop the operation of the State's Accounting. I know we're getting reports asked for at the last legislature. I know that the senator who took the initiative in that request received a very misleading message on whether to go back and ask for that report or not, although the work on that State Review report was well along. So it seems that messages coming from the President's office are very misleading in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u15	The question now is unknown to the president, but the other is true that it may not always be clear how angry reports of reports are when a new legislature has begun. In one case at least if not two from the previous council, ministers have informed that although the report could not be distributed during that assembly, that work would be completed, and the report will be completed and the statement will be made. In the case of reports won by Kingdom Accounting, they may have a different origin from being a member of Congress. They can go as a request through the Presidency Committee for Public Review, and, of course, there is no difference between legislatures. In general, I have no precedent for not completing the reports she has received.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to pray for respect. The council has been busy lately, and this inquiry for the County Court's decision on social matters was made - an answer was received last week. It took about nine months to get here, but it didn't. I'm sorry I told you it hadn't arrived. However, nine months is a very thought - provoking time for an inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u17	There is one pregnancy. But the president refers to what he had previously said about what was the beginning of this discussion. He will examine the results of this inquiry and explain the results of that survey at the beginning of a meeting in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u18	To answer, Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Transport and Regional Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u19	Mr. President. Tuesday 13th was a bad day. Not only did the government groups find the wide sheets of disability and the elderly but they fell back on our blessed dollar. But what does it mean when the dollar falls? That means it'll be less worth, less money. In the dress for Christmas, it seems to be the object of the crown, but 15% of the gang drop, as it has now, means that all imported goods increase in price by 15%. About 1/3 of our direct expenditures are due to imported products, and 15% of the population uses a number of excrements, which, in turn, increases the insured loans of the households. The secretary of finance has repeatedly answered such speculations so that it is only good for a dollar to be spent, a dollar is such a clever economy. All right, ganging can be good for large - scale and foreign tourists, but it's not good for the public because it reduces the money of normal families and brings them to bus and fishing companies. Walking can also be good for those who have a lot of money and owe little. Getting an increase in interest, which is just money prices, and an increase in the value of possessions can, in fact, be said to be a lottery fraud for property figures in the country. That's why I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, especially in view of that: How will he only raise wages and compensations for the disability and the elderly by over 3 percent, as expected by his budget, at the same time as expected inflation from the crash has already eaten his 3 percentage points with the best appetite?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u20	A respectable president. This was an incoherently out there and south, and many of the claims of a fly that doesn't hold his mind. First of all, the budget bill was to raise the pay and price bill by 3.4%. After treating the case on the budget, this figure goes up to 3.6%, including because the inflation forecasts are getting worse. We're raising disability improvements more, increasing 3.6%, but not by 3.4. It's some kind of gross mischievement in the middle of nowhere. Senator. Second, where have the countries that have enjoyed money as much as Iceland has seen in recent years? Year after year, a source of power on top of the proletariat's growth. In recent years, both money gains and wages have grown each year, year after year, so much so that the senator will have trouble finding a different country. And that has happened while we've had the Icelandic crown, which has saved our country's work, increased the competitiveness of the exports, laid the groundwork for the tourism industry, and we are today with a stronger economy than we've ever seen before. Never before has the economy stood as strong as today. The Senator seems to be on top of all of this, stuck in some ancient gang case, that this is where he's been killed. The gang hasn't been cut, there's a free gang, the gang log is free, depends on demand and supply. It is true that Iceland had become the most expensive European country. Here the price was higher than in Switzerland, Norway, and the United States. There was nothing more to be expected than to give up. This increases the competitiveness of exports that then become stronger in order to create more valuable jobs and maintain the high level of employment - much higher than in the senator's dream country, the euro. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u21	Mr. President. Let's just talk about disability. It is completely incomprehensible that the government groups make a political decision to take in cuts from what had been proclaimed. This minister, who is only two months old, received a financial bill of over 4 billion dollars. the next year, an increase in disability, which would have been enough for only one third of the cost of a dollar to be cut off. With one pen mark last night, these 4 billion become 2.9 billion. It says it's black in the Minister's hands. The second is a complete outback and a mystery to the Minister of Yes, Prime Ministry. Mr. President. It is foolish to suggest such a fall in the middle of a discussion of budgets and take some time to complete a system change, but it is not easy to let it go back into force. [[The president calls.]] Is that often done, last time the senator's salary was raised?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u22	A respectable president. It's fine that the senator is beginning to realize. He's backing up to less than expected. That is because we have an earmarked amount, not just in 2019 but in all the periods of the financial programme, to strengthen the improving system. It is a project that has been carried out ever since Pétur Blöndal brought them work into 2016. She was in charge last year, and she's still on her way. We have come a long way to complete the correctness of the system changes that will follow. The funding of these changes is fully assured next year, starting at the likely time of the change. In this way, tax pay increases from social security to those living with disability or disability of about 5 billion. There are 5 billion who are going to improve the quality of life and the rightness of these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u23	V.E.G. President. Poor people should not wait for justice, was a word for the present. About a year ago, the prime minister spoke here in the hall. I agree with these words, and that's why it is completely incomprehensible not to delay microsurgents because a social minister's committee has failed to succeed, if I understand the words of the economic and financial secretary, and was followed in the media. I'd like to allow myself to think out loud if it's not completely wrong yet. I'd also like to wonder if it really is, so that a micro-marrow can't get one better move until the system changes have passed through. The impossible task management of social security ministers is not to be taken into account in the case of micro-terrestrials. We're discussing a global re-examination of the social security system. Is it fair to agree? Is it reasonable that a group of people who have the worst in the country will again wait? So I want to ask the highest. Budget and economic secretary how he gets it to fail to reduce financial contributions to micro-energy pensioners by over a billion of the budgets of this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u24	A respectable president. There are two things I would like to stay in this lawsuit. First of all, it is claimed to be. A senator said that one of the most delicate groups in the community has been left entirely, not allowed to enjoy the long economic growth that we now enjoy. Then I'd like to point it out. A senator's job is to give public figures a whole different picture. If we go back to 2010, we'll see that today's 40 billion prices in social security for this case group were on the price of today's price. Next year, 70 billion donations will be made, by reason. Senator, 30 billion annual increases. What does this mean by increasing rights for each reformer? This means that the improvement has increased for each reformer by 1.1 million per year. Then why is that why? A member of the council here and insists that this group has been left entirely behind? The numbers show everything else. We're going to go on next year. We're gonna put money away to increase our rights. Then we can discuss the matter, which is a completely different subject, whether we need to do better, whether or not we are switching between what is right. And we should also consider that Iceland and I seem to have an independent problem that the number of people entering the disability - saving system is increasing faster than the country's biological growth, and it seems to be happening faster than any neighboring country. Loss of control over this trend will greatly diminish our ability to support those in the greatest need, and that is a very serious matter. [[The president calls.]] I think we should start focusing the discussion a little bit more on them instead of being here with statements that simply do not hold a view.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for this speech. I'd like to stop and think about one question, since we have now seen a delay in the construction of a new land hospital. Could we delay them for a few more months and use the funds that were to go in there to improve the interests of the group that has only stolen insurance benefits? I'm just talking about that group. Another is that I'm told that a dollar to a dollar is not a complete review of the system changes. Is it possible to have that operation this year?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u26	A respectable president. I would like to answer this simply by saying that I supported Eygló Harðardóttir, the then social minister, strongly in the process of organ reforming. I also supported Þorsteinn Víglundsson as social minister in order to do the same. And now I support Ásmundur Einar Daðason to achieve changes to the system that increases rights make the system more reasonable. We've reserved funds to accomplish this system change. It can be right next year. So we're, in spite of what's going on in the handling of the budget bill on a budget board, putting 5 billion on top of the prices and increasing the rights rights rights rights rights rights right now next year. This is the main thing. I think the main thing is that this job must be completed. We need to produce the changes that are meant to achieve the effect. A senator calls for, i.e. that we can be more comfortable with those who have remembered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u27	President. I have a business like my colleagues before me. Last night, changes in budgets were more presented. Among them is the proposed change to reduce the increase in contribution to microenergy pensioner, from 4 billion to 2.9 billion. This is a reduction in budgeting up to 1.1 billion dollars. Hv. The chairman of the budget board told VOLV that this is a means of managing the recovery of the economy. This morning, the highest said. However, the financial and economic secretary's interview involved the explanation of the complete misunderstanding and the reduction in donations due to structural changes that are not yet ready. So there is some confusion about the reason why the contributions to microenergy pensioners are being reduced by over 1 billion. Government Commander. Ministers had already given Iceland's Institute of Economic Affairs free of charge that these funds go to improve the economic status of their members. Well, then it's got the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, both at meetings with the ARM and in the European Parliament, also made a statement to the Microcracy that this amount, 4 billion, could reduce a cent to a dollar's degree. Hence, this year's microengineering alliance had good reason to believe that these 4 billion could be determined to reduce the degradation of micro-energy donors. President. For example, when it comes to growth in power and gratation, microenergy pensioners have been slided. For example, while the minister seems to answer earlier not to agree that many poor people live in poverty, many poor people do not make ends meet, where compensation is hardly attainable to minimum wage, rent markets have gone up, and living in this country is generally very expensive. Their pay isn't enough. A centenarian against a centennial decline attaches disability to a poverty trap and inhibits including those who have the ability to win and to improve their interests. Does a minister not consider it important to increase the economic freedom of this group? President. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance, in fact, a very simple question, yes or no-questioning: Is the country's people an important resource investing in? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u28	A respectable president. The answer to that question is yes - and hardly need to be discussed here. Wrong as hell. A senator says that the poor have been left behind. If we look at the development of the perks of improvement, we simply have another picture. I was doing this in response to another request that we have improved social security by 30 billion to the real value of looking at the budget bill next year. With these latest changes, we can say that there are 29 billion. This is a real promotion every year from now on, compared to 2010. For each reformer, the pay has increased by 1.1 million per person. That is why it is wrong. The senator contends that that that group was left behind. We've improved by 75%. We need to be able to discuss this, because the situation and development are a foundation upon which today's discussion needs to be based. Time should not be foolish, as though evolution were wrong. We need to start talking about the most important things, and it's how we can make the necessary changes made to the Department of Development, to the Department of Social Affairs, and I think a lot of senators here agree on the need to do on the system. There are certain poverty traps in the system. There are reforms that humans agree to do and what is to be done: We are ready for the money. In case of a moment. A senator could turn the discussion a little more towards what is really worth buying and choosing this group, what we can do to reach out to those in the weakest position, instead of turning out of the past, I think we are taking a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u29	President. I thought we were discussing just how we could reach out to improve their interests. What the Department of Destiny asks of us and what poor people ask of us is that we decommission them from the poverty trap I hear at the highest. Secretary of finance agrees that poverty is a trap. V.E.G. It seems that a minister would also agree to invest in the people of the country. Why not now? Has the highest. Ministers calculate what poverty costs us in Iceland? Or does a minister disagree that there is a head of poverty in Iceland? I'm sure the poor who are going to be at the council posts tomorrow are very against the minister, the poor. How much does poverty cost us? How much longer will it cost to keep the poor until these changes are ready? How to calculate the highest. Minister's request that it be savings to maintain the impairment? He must think it's worth a fortune, or why else are we doing this? I want to see the excel document where the calculations have been carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u30	A respectable president. I don't know what world we're in. A senator lives when it is claimed that here he does not understand the position of those who have the least to play in order to subjugate life in the country. As we look back a few years and look at both the improvement system of microenergy - saving workers and old - age pensioners, the picture is that benefits have increased by over 70 billion annually. Next year, we put 150 billion into these two major systems. Not very many years ago, that figure was 80 billion, and that money was used from a common fund to help others draw out lives. Yeah, a lot of people have little to play. There are many in old age pensioners who have not been able to use their years to build pensions, and in the company of microenergy pensioners there are many who will not be able to go to the job market and where they cannot make their income in any other way. [[The president calls.]] These are the people we want to support. That's why we're working on the changes in our system, and that work has been financed in our strategy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u31	A respectable president. I come up in a speech chair with a bad taste in my mouth. I didn't even get 24 hours to celebrate a bill that put the risk of making taxes stronger, the incredible injustice that had been around here for years. There is more to riches and wealth than what despots receive from the State. Is it because they are so financially ill that they have first place in the administration of this government over real sick and injured people? A group of council members meeting this morning for review of social security I'm in. I was next inclined not to attend, but I have never failed to attend where I should be and there's talk of doing something, helping. But I don't believe it anymore. I don't believe it because once you've made a promise, you don't beat the sick or injured by cutting them down about $1.1 billion. This has been promised, and this should always be just the first step. But it's been two years. V.E.G. Secretary of finance reports an increase of 30 billion in this system, a 75% increase. And what has it done? For more than a portion of the microchip 205,000 bucks. down payment - 205,000. However, the standards of the Ministry of Health for what is least required are 223,000, apart from housing costs. It's a disaster for all of us. And then to say that it's okay - I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is he going to retract this? Will he make sure this doesn't turn into law?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u32	A respectable president. I think there is a very high need for a objective discussion on the status of the country of disability, the development of the micro-energy pension system, the development of individual reform groups, the fact that I've been tracking down here today that there has been an enormous growth in microorganism in the country, including the U.S. disorders of the musculoskeletal system. In fact, there was an excellent report in the week on the issue, that it appears that there is an increased access to physical therapy that helps us keep many away from developing disability with better prophylaxis. But we have also seen a great deal of growth in spiritual sickness and other factors that we have not had enough success in coping with. That part needs to be for discussion. We need to be able to talk about the changes in our system. What I feel is really getting out of bed after a word or two. This is what a senator is: how does he feel? A senator realizes that if we are right now to protect everything that has been taken away to finance an increase of rights for disability, if we are going to take care of it now, we are going to take care of it now. A senator seems to walk out without changing the system? There won't be anything left in the system change, nothing, which means that if the system changes without funding occur, some will get more and others will get less. Is that what it is? A senator is talking about, that we decide to make every room in the state? I'm often the only one talking about the fact that there's very little money here. And unlike many members of Parliament, there is not always a treasure to meet the expectations of everyone in the country. If we apply the entire budget to increase our rights to the present system, where is the situation? A senator getting the money to change his system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u33	A respectable president. I'm just gonna answer the highest. Minister by enforcing a word that the Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities said before so long. There he says, by permission of the president, and it clearly states: I repeat, like a dog. A senator came in, that we're in the next 4 billion, new, into this system. I've said that, both in public and in the interest of an interest organization, both the Microcreature Community and Developmental Help, that the implementation of the budget would be accomplished in cooperation with this organization. We already have 4 billion, we can use them to reduce the degree of impairment. A senator entered, He's saying it right. He's going to use 4 billion - no, not in a system change. [[Take it up for:]] Word is right, he's going to talk to an interest organization and use it for years at this time. There's no system changes inside. This is just one third of the system changes, then we'll talk about - should we talk about the damages? Shall we talk about what's going on, how much is impairment, how much does the state get in them? [[The president calls.]] Why don't we get them talking up here too?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u34	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is totally confused. Of course, the minister is referring to a new system that will be reduced and financed. Of course, that is what he is talking about. Of course, the minister has been doing his work in such a way that at the end of the year, he has reached a final outcome. We have been willing to do so since 2016, but unfortunately, our work has not yet come to an end. When we're setting up budgets for the next year, we're watching when it's realistic to estimate that the system modification of 4 billion is going into effect. We're just looking at the situation realistically and saying, "The suggestions aren't quite there. It is quite unrealistic to believe that it will take effect on January 1, but we can have hope that it will be after the first quarter of our lives and at that time 4 billion each year into our futures. That's why we're proud. We are proud to have prepared the government's budget for the next year in this way to finance these changes because it is relevant to the average amount of 1.1 million a year into disability improvements today. [[The president calls.]] It's not about whether we still have a job to do. It's about keeping what has been said and what has been said. A senator misunderstands the purpose of 4 billion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u35	A respectable president. In itself, this matter is very simple. Economic factors for the budget and financial agenda of this government are smiling. There is no need for a special surprise, and this was repeated in both financial and environmental discussions. these budgets, that economic factors were at best highly optimistic. Now, however optimistic, a reevaluates the economy, and the government has to respond because it had an increase of about 4 billion and a decrease in income of 2 billion. That was a 6 billion - dollar hole that had to be cut off from conversation. What was done? It was cut down in the welfare system, of course, as always, and then to close the hole was finally cut down on public projects. This is the classic recipe for the state funds, the cutting down of the welfare system, and the cutting down of public projects, already in the interest of government funds. Not a single attempt to manipulate the general government in general despite repeated warnings that the assumptions were too optimistic, that the promises that were being made into the welfare system could not be beyond the scope of these optimistic assumptions. It is good to bear in mind that the basis remains very optimistic. The economist expects 3.6% of inflation in the next year, considering that there will be a considerably stronger pace than there is today. It's been sick since this fortune - teller was published. Unchanged in the next year's inflation is expected to occur in 6◯8%. This is reality. At the top of that, the government's going to raise the benefits of senior citizens and microenergy pensioners by 3.6%. That's the fact, that's the fallout that that that group is facing. It does not mean that the system was revised in 2016 and greatly improved. The fact is, from 2016 on to the next year's schedule, the prospects for an increase of 20% in remuneration are set, while older citizens and micro-energy pensioners are increased by 8%. This is the traditional government recipe for the systematic failure of older citizens and micro-element donors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u36	A respectable president. I'll have to take a little aid with me in a pontta. I'm gonna figure out what. One of the tremendous failures he feels has occurred. It speaks of 6 billion, 6 billion in the budget must be transferred between discussions. Let us see in the context of 900 billion budgets. We'll get the number 0.006. We can't make 0.01%. [[I'm sorry. Minister: 1%]] It's a failure of course. Senator. It's like any other joke. I don't know where it is. A senator is in reality. We're offering a budget bill based on the spring forecasting plan for the next year, and we need in the fall to make changes and measures up to 6 billion of 900. He steps up here and says that the terms of the state's budget are broken off. We've got 30 billion dollars left over. We're increasing the framed expenses by over 4%. Where's the premise? And to use 2017 as a focus on the development of reforms to seniors - I'm here to tell you that if you look back about four, five years, the buys of older citizens has grown beyond any other group in the country. He has grown beyond the wealth of all other groups in the country. That's a fact. That does not mean bringing up some mistaken fault and arguing about something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u37	A respectable president. V.E.G. Of course, a minister of finance still has his head on the sand for the fact that this crisis is just beginning. We are on our way into a very fast cooling economy, and the basis for the government's financial plan that promised a great deal of expense and the increase in the welfare system will not be successful. Let's just take that discussion as the wind rises. However, it does not mean in this discussion to take the massive amount of rock done in the affairs of older citizens and in the microenergy pensioners here in 2016 after a very severe decline following the collapse of 2009 and 2010 and to strike down a knight at this time. This is simply the fact. These groups are being significantly reduced from the 2016 increase over the next two, three years, following this trend. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget says it's just some scrawl, 0.6% of the budget, which is absolutely correct. It is even more surprising that the government could find no way to shut it down than to attack the welfare system. [[Taken out on: right. Hear, hear.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u38	A respectable president. The number is 0.06%. [[I'm sorry. Minister: 0.6%]] That's the premise. That's the move. However, it is claimed here that it is conditioned and cut into the welfare or health systems. That's not true. Each group of subjects is being added next year, to each case. It is true that the increase is not quite the same, i.e. We are not yet over a 5% increase as it was, but we are over 4% in the framed expenses. I miss the language that was heard from what happened. On the spring, a senator said that we were going too steep in the expansion. [[Up front.]] As to the reasons, I have to say, we can't agree to take the economic presidents Welcoming as a foundation for the budget. We're using economic vices and national forecasts from the Habitat. I think it's a matter of business, and I think we should be able to discuss whether it's too optimistic or not. That's the forecast we're using. We also expect, like cot. A senator, who is getting cold in the economy, who slows down economic growth, and so. During the next few years, financial policy expected to reduce the share of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u39	A respectable president. Here, in unsubstantiated inquiry, I want to direct the president that he can get to the government that the four billion promised will be able to continue to praise the 4 billion. It's very easy to have it then, so once the system changes have finally arrived...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u40	The president wishes not to resume the subject discussion of what was under unprepared question period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u41	... then they can go into effect on January 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u42	A respectable president. I hereby recommend for a bill to correct the change in income tax law. This bill contains suggestions that include changes in pensions due to certain costs and compensations due to automobile management under social assistance laws that are not considered taxable, and thus do not cut public insurance pensions. By General's resolution of Penitentiary, No. 28/148, at the 148th legislature Council of 2017/2018, 649. 1268, the decision was to submit a law bill that would release taxable pensions and remuneration for the car's business as per social law. The bill should include the projection of the bill. consult with Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister with the aim of ensuring that pensions are not considered taxable and thus do not interfere with public insurance pensions. I'm not going out for a discussion on how to say that the council might have decided to provide a bill of the matter and to take a stand on it, but good and good, we are here to celebrate the first approval of this council-sense proposal that the bill should appear, and now it is established. After a discussion called postponing, it is clear that these improvements are not considered to be a form of social assistance, and therefore there is no need to specifically recommend that the avoidance of taxation from the taxation of the above pensions should not impair the taxation of public insurance. According to 1st mg. Count 9. a law on social assistance is permitted to pay a person who is paid back from old age, disability, or rehabilitation, for a pension due to the cost of living if it is found that a pensioner cannot support himself without it. As to whether he can support himself without replacement, he should take into account property and income. These payments are provided to cover expenses beyond the usual implementation of relevant individuals and are not to be reimbursed or added in any other way. These include care costs, medical and pharmaceutical expenses, the purchase of hearing aids, the rent costs of extra housing, etc. In accordance with domestic remuneration and pension allocation regulations, a pensioner with total income per month up to 235,648 k. using pensions. In that case, the funds and stocks of the individual must not exceed 4 billion. K. At the same time, there is a peak in the exchange for pensioners according to marriage status and household and care. In 2017, the above reimbursement of pension was 156 billion. K. which were paid to 1,318 individuals. Two of the largest expense teams behind that money are due to the drug cost of disability and living on a farm, a total of 114 million. K. The average pensioner payment was 118,000 bucks. every year, nearly 10,000 bucks. per month. In 1st. 10th par. legal on social assistance states that it is permitted to pay sensibilities to sensibilities, micro-energy donors, and caregivers to buy a car that reformers need to be motivated by motor impairment if there is no improvement in the ability to survive without compensation. According to 2 mg. 10th par. The same law applies to operating vehicles in the case of motorized pensioners. This exchange does not depend on the income or property of a pensioner. In 2017, supplied improvements to motion - related pensioners totaled 1,108 million. K. but monthly improvements per individual were 14,387 k., less than 173,000 k. every year. According to insurance records, 6,418 individuals received a pension due to automobiles in 2017. So in 2017, improvements to motor disasters are provided in over 1.1 billion, monthly per person of 14,387 k. which makes less than 173,000 jars. At a year, and because of automobiles, there were 6,418 people who were paid the equivalent. I'd like to say that I think the importer of an original Congress proposal has successfully set down here a very sick group, a badly-attracted group. In other words, they are so strict that it is beyond question that we are here always talking about people in a very weak position. Hence, it is very easy to have compassion in a view that we should stop making mistakes because of the payment of such reforms. All I'd like to do in this regard is that there's a certain problem in the whole system when we have different restrictions according to different subsystems. We'd have to get to a place where we'd have a whole system of things that would look good around people, and we could assume that we were reaching out for different groups and those who were in a particularly weak position of basic rights if possible. As we've been talking here today, there is an overall review of the system. If this were possible, you'd want to visualize a system where there were few exceptions from the decrease. In the system as built up today, it has to be acknowledged that the decline of these specific rights seems to be a bit severe. That's why this case has to do with the council, and I'm on it as it is stated here. We have evaluated the effect of the bill on the provision of income, prices, and financial resources. Those who have been paid compensation in these categories will see provisions increase at the same time in income taxes and in response and in income from state to country, and their partners will reduce them to the equivalent amount. If we apply the prices of the presidents like those that were the basis of the budget bill, we can expect to pay on the basis of a 1 mg. Count 9. law on social assistance will be around 170 billion. K. and payment for automobiles about 1,200 million. K. Depending on the number of people. Thus, the combined stock of income tax and an answer will decrease the conversations of these two figures, i.e. will decrease by 1,370 million next year, this schedule will follow. That means the answer will fall by nearly 200 million and the government's income tax will be 300 million. It is harder to assess the impact of the change in the government income tax because of the use of personal discounts that are completely funded by the state's funds. Then children's payments and interest rates are slightly higher if the bill is the law. There is hardly a number that needs to be mentioned much in this context, but there are only 5 million each year. That's why the two conversations are two, i.e. how the answer falls to the countryside and to the income tax, about 500 million. I'd like to state that when I've been here talking about cutting the benefits, I've, of course, in this context of this case being talking about their taxation, i.e. that they do not come fully and devoid of taxes to the pensioners. This is where I've traced the key points. I reiterate what I've said before, I believe that the one who encourages the contributions of this bill at the beginning reached a group that stands at palaces and clearly meets the other law of counting in a particularly weak position where he is in need of a pension. That is a fair argument, for such improvements will be free of taxes. I want the bill to go to the Economic and Business Committee and then to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u43	It was reasonable to assume that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u44	Mr. President. I'm so glad this bill is on. I thank the Minister especially for his speech and many fine words that fell there, and I am so glad that this heartless justice has gained a powerful helper, as the minister of finance really is. It comes out, and it may be appropriate to mention that the bill is a very nice job. In June last June, a minister of finance was assigned to evangelize, and there is a reason to thank a minister for his well-work in this regard. I'd like to mention one point in which the chapter points out that this has been carried out under the Ministry of Health, the head of state tax and the Union of Icelandic rural society. And it was just a review from the head of state tax, which may have led to the idea that the original bill was proposed by the members of Stockholm's people, the same material - that came in hard on humans, and the conclusion had to be entrusted to a minister to submit the bill of this material by the Senate resolution on June 12 of the past. That's why I want to ask the highest. A minister may not be sure to take into account all the tips made by the governor of the bill so that a comment from there will not be an obstacle or a delay in the release of the case at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u45	A respectable president. I think we have to leave it to the council to digest a view. We have won the bill primarily according to the formula, which was very simple. This is a class of rights, this addition, and it is called after her lack of tax, and therefore, as you see in the bill text, it is a relatively simple bill. As to the views that come from the governor or others, I think it will be the full scope of the committee in order to review these views.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u46	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer, and I expect the benefit from the discussion. The Economic and Business Committee for the bill. I'd like to let me mention a few points, but I will postpone it until my next session.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u47	Mr. President. There are conditions in Icelandic society that include groups of people who live under adverse circumstances. This is the case with these improvements or pensions that are determined by 9 g. the law on social assistance, that it has indeed shown that some improvements and perhaps largely due to reimbursement at expense costs, have been deemed taxable. As we have noted earlier, it is good to say that on this matter, a very broad convergence between all members of the Council at spring or summer was achieved, and we have arrived there to have this administrative bill with a secretary of finance behind the case, which is, of course, very pleasant and kind. This is that, in reality, I do, let me say, that men are convinced that there is a justice issue here and that it deserves to be paid as such. It may well be said that the views the minister has presented are worthwhile and that he has an overall view of matters are worthwhile. It can be as natural as it would be if in the global reevaluation of the rights system that surrounds those who have a interest in making sure that it becomes a special view. Of course, while this has not been done, it is vital that the bill be given a clear route through the back of the bill. General. I won't have much more to say about this than to reiterate how happy I am that the bill has come out. You will find very helpful information in this article. So it is easy for any who come to discuss this to grasp the matter, in fact, that is a very simple, simple matter of justice, Mr. President. I reiterate my hopes that this will succeed, as stated in Article 2. The bill, that this law is valid. 1st January 2019
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u48	Mr. President. We're here discussing a bill to legalize the change in income tax laws involved in the improvements in pensions, which will be free of income tax. I believe, at the beginning of my speech, it is proper to mention that the matter follows a well-to-do with the members of Stockholm's council at the last council. In fact, it is passing away the great issue of justice that some members of the Parliament, including others, and probably most of the time. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson, has talked about here in a pittance needed to be fixed. This is actually a change in the direction to disarm one of the poverty traps that are in our tax and improvement system. It is very important to do so, i.e. that accepting strength, e.g. to buy earpieces, not to reduce the income of the people they make. That's extremely important. The members of Parliament who handled this matter in the original language deserve much gratitude for it. It is also in the long - term direction, the assistance that humans need in order to live as normal a life as possible despite the limitations they may have, is removed from parentheses when it comes to paying taxable income. We've discussed this before, many members of the council here, e.g. has to do with aid tools in general. When thinking about how we share relief tools with people, they are taken out of parentheses, i.e. that it had nothing to do with their improvements. I feel that this is very important because the objective of all the laws involved in the situation of people with various limitations must always be to ensure that their situation is as little different from that of other people, since there are now enough problems that people may now face when they do not have full functioning or good health. Really, there is to be much more than enough. Their association is more likely to meet them than to weigh them down. In fact, this is a change that involves two articles of law No. 99/2007, social assistance. I feel that then this will trigger some speculation or debate in general as to whether we need to go further or whether it would be wise to go further in this regard. This is also true of other such concentrations, the human benefits, in order to form human health grants obtained from their unions, or the glass - eye strength, or a combination of the tools that humans receive from their unions. I realize that it doesn't apply here, that's not what we're asking. Still, this may be an opening for that discussion. But I'm about to take one step at a time and that this step right now is enough for now. I can't wait to deal with the bill in what? The Economic and Business Committee. I have at least a few minutes. did not understand the discussion differently, either here at the Senate Hall or among non-continental senators, but so that members of the council continue to conclude the matter so that it can be legal for a year's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u49	A respectable president. I've come up here to celebrate the fact that this bill has been released. A year ago, the first bill I proposed at a Senate assembly was about to stop taxing pensions. Which, in turn, became a synopsis that was approved for spring accord and has now become this bill. I'm glad to hear it. I was so hoping that there was a good virus in the bill that would spread in all directions. Of course, within 24 hours of that bill, you were greatly disappointed that there should be an increase of over a billion dollars in micropigs. But for the poor who have been in this situation - and I know it for myself - to believe in some compensation, to believe that they are being strengthened to buy drugs, to get help, or to get the gas strength so called, or the strength to drive a car that is very expensive, and for those who are disabled and who need large cars, this is a great expense. The saddest thing about this is that it wasn't impaired, and the tax against a dollar was completely at 0, as shown at the end of the bill, and it tells us how complicated it was. It says, under the permission of a president: Then children's compensations and interest rates will be slightly higher if the bill is legal, or about 5 billion. K.◯ This cannot be accurately calculated. And this tells us that after every cent of these sponsors were taken, it was still on the person's tax returns, as if he had received everything, but never did. This led to a reduction in child - welfare and growth. These traps, I can't believe it was a mistake when they went in. But I think it's even more serious if they don't go out when we realize they're not going to hurt me. That's why I'm really happy with it now. We must also understand in this context what this means. For ordinary people who can't get that kind of strength, they don't realize what's going on. It's like the highest. Secretary of finance earlier spoke of this as having an effect, i.e. on income tax and an answer mainly to the relevant product. But also the other, the failings that this would have resulted in in in the past. A person is not just getting the income tax or 15 of you. K. The concentration of a car, which is less than 41⁄2.5 of you. K., he's getting all 15 of you. The crowns in your pocket. Plus what was once impaired if he had a interest or a child's compensation. In human language, this simply means, let's say that someone has received a drug concentration. There are, of course, differences in what people receive and how much drug levels are available. An individual who gets 10 points. K. medicine strength, he was taxed before. Under this team of government insurance agencies, all the taxes, all the income, all the taxable income stocks. When this is published, it returns the person who was previously given nothing, 10,000 K. Then this same person, who in many cases also has a car strength, receives 14,387 k. One more time. It is that a person gets back, the worst in society, up to 25 of you. K. In the process, we will see how amazing it was for the individuals who may have received 205 you. received only 180 fars, even less. I would have wanted this to work a year back in time and people to get it as their only payment, preferably on December 1, before Christmas. However, this will be done on January 1. That's why this shows that I think we should take the bill and study it and use it for the other job. Because there's still a lot of traps. One thing we should work on next is, for example. your special savings. Why do we collect it for? Yes, in order to live in old age. Keep an accumulated fund that we can use for alimony when we retire. But we are always urging disability to work. That's why when people are over 60 years of age and can start taking out their special property savings, he gets cut. He's taxable, and he's cut off in return. That's why I'm saying for my part that I can't accept that the 4 billion who were supposed to be less than a third of a dollar to one. There's more than two thirds missing. If we want to continue in the course established in the bill and to follow that policy, the government - if it shows and has the will to defuse a crown against a dollar's impairment, it should be done right away. Not something like that should be used as a line of punishment to get something out of a job estimate. Rather, we should view this as a positive entry into changing the system. As soon as we take out the declines, which are exactly the same ones as cutting off the special property savings and cutting down everything possible and putting people in poverty, we must be a little strange if we take a member of the council all his time and put it into the special interest, he never goes into the State's DG, i.e. Insurance Agency. He will never get into trouble if he takes out his savings and not if he sells property. We say to those on the lowest salary and pay: If you get sick or retire - not with special savings - or other items, such as vacation homes and other property, it is impaired. If we look at this from a realistic point of view, this should be the other way around. Those on the lowest salary and compensation should not be affected. The others on the top are to take them on. I'll experience it, for example. In terms of the fiscal tax, 201⁄22%, it is only tax to the state. At the same time, the main tax revenues for micropigs and underpayers are answered. This is wanton, and should be the opposite. Those on the lowest salary should just not pay taxes. The rest of those who have the money should pay 40 to50%. To balance the situation. I would also like to point out that the bill is presented. I want to reiterate that I don't believe but that it will soon pass through committees and fly through the council and be approved. Those in this business are the ones that are going to get caught, the ones I'm trying to break up with are the bad guys. This is just the first step in making sure that justice reaches those who have remembered and whose feet are upright. Because we have such a strange system. That's one of the things we have to change and it's so omnipotent. It's so ugly in that way that we get the money in our hands, 15 of you. K. to a concentration of gas, which will be taken as 5 of you. K. tax of it, third. Then you think you own 103/411. After, and that's right, they're in hand a moment. But a year later they're taken. This is one of the things people have never understood. I didn't understand either. I remember the first time I ran into this strange phenomenon, almost 25 years ago, when I got into this system. I had everything figured out, and I knew exactly what to get from the State Insurance Institute, but then a letter came on August 1, where I was informed of a decrease. I didn't understand why. But, yes, I had received the amount of money from the union, where I paid in a special fund, which I then used in physical therapy or in a glass - eye buy. I could use that for exercise. And even in those cases, tax was paid. I thought after the tax, I'd have the rest of the money. But that was exactly what was taken a year later, a dollar a year, and a quarter a year later. Then I began to look into it, and I realized that no matter what I did, it was really no matter what I did. First, in order to show the right income for years, it was required that disability be calculated from year to year, and if they were strengthened, they would calculate what it would do after taxes and how much would be reduced. People were supposed to understand that when they got these, they weren't supposed to get them. If people had realized this at the time, I'm sure that many people would say, "No, I don't want this. " People would have made money saying no. Then child support would not have been impaired, nor would it have been added. I'm celebrating this bill. I hope they get quick and good treatment and just thank you so much. I really hope this is just the first step in changing this system. I hope that it will be done quickly and effectively. I am convinced that if we were to do this in order to improve our lives, improve our terms, get together immediately and throw out all the cards, a cent to the crown, we would find the right contribution, and allow everyone to live with dignity, decent life.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u50	A respectable president. I'm gonna look like someone else. Councilmen who have addressed this matter are happy that it has been presented here. This situation begins with why. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and other members of the Shockers brought here a comparable bill during our last session. The review of the Economic and Business Committee was done. I think it may be safe to say that there was an absolute agreement on the importance of the matter and the importance of the rights of it, i.e. that people could accept such compensation without being taxed because it was actually a reimbursement of bills. Similarly, such reimbursement should not have any impairment in other parts of the system. I think the committee agreed completely on this. Although there may have been some busy people on the original bill, we agreed on a synonym that gave the Ministry a bill with exactly this input. I think that if I remember correctly, everyone would vote with that synopsis so that there would be a great convergence here at the council. Hv. A senator who spoke before me, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, said something about the fact that ordinary people who did not have to accept this strength did not realize what this means. I don't know if I'm normal. At any rate, I'm going to state that I haven't had to accept that kind of strength, so I may not fully understand what that means. But I'll admit that when I studied this subject at the time, it seemed strange to me. I was amazed that we were strengthening the cost of disability in the light of disability, but at the same time, we drew from that tax and cut the cost from somewhere else. I just wanted to come up here and be happy that this case was done. I think this is a very important thing. I also wanted to show how important it is that a body of Congress can come together on such issues, as was done in this case, where the committee had a solidarity. It was agreed to go along with a political arrangement and to hide a minister's proposal to bring a full bill that had been looked into all the smells and all the factors that seemed to be a distraction before when we received reviews of past cases. As a result, I expect the reviews of this case to become positive and positive, accepting what other senators have said before me, hoping that we can agree to resolve the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u51	Mr. President. I'd like to explain to the Commission's article on bill to legalize a change in water duty law, No. 41/2003. So, you're supposed to change 12 and 14. the laws of history, rights, and duties of guide guides. First of all, it's suggested that you change Article 12. to make it clear that harbors are allowed to measure ocean history within seawaters. Second, it is suggested that the rights and duties of guide and guide or of those whom we normally refer to as marine historians are better than they have been since then. In addition to the opinions of the environment and transport committee. The committee has discussed the matter and was contacted by Björn Freyr Björnsson from the Department of Transport and Division, Gísli Gíslason from Iceland's Guðjón Atlason and the Friðjón Axfjörður of the Árnason from the Association. The committee received one report from the House of Transport. It is most recently reported that the Committee considers this bill to be a major improvement. The protective terms of the ocean are indiscriminate, i.e. Safe sailing and protection from pollution of the seas and coastal areas and other factors, and the need to make a clear record of the history and authority reject to make a clear assessment of the seas. Notes were made at 4 mg. 2.g. The bill, but according to that paragraph, a guide is permitted to forbid anyone who does not have legitimate business getting on board a ship while he has not completed his work. It was pointed out that the law was not in harmony with the principle of captain's authority on board her ship, as shown in sailor law, from 1985, and as a sailing law from the same year. It would be obvious that the ship's operations and guide were clear, i.e. That the captain is responsible for the ship and its sailing, guide only on the guide. It is to ensure that a guide will not be unduly disturbed by his work, e.g. by forbidding those who have no legitimate business coming on board. The committee agrees with these views and suggests 4 mg. 2.g. The bill will be removed. It was then noted that it was inexplicable how a guide or a sea guide should fulfill his duty as outlined in the 4th issue of 2 mg. 2.g. that he should try with every means possible to minimise the spread of pollution. The committee points out that there is no new law but this obligation is included in the 2nd issue. 14th par. current track. So the procedure in this regard remains unchanged. In view of the above views, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the only change of 4 mg. 2.g. ... goout. Under these publications, five members of the committee were absent from the case: Helga Helgadóttir Helgaótldótttir, Karl Hjaltason Einar Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornóttsdótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Leví Gunnarsson, an officer of the committee, agreed to this view. And those that sign are in addition to my Director Bergþór Ólason Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, and Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u52	Mr. President. I recommend a synonym which, from January 1, 2019, will be at least 1st. One psychologist usually operates in each of the country's prisons with a regular work station in that prison. In this way prisoners will be assured that psychological services in their prison rooms will be free of charge. It is suggested that a minister consult with the National Prison Department and Iceland's Psychological Association on the preparation of the ministry, including for treatment given, the number of inmates per psychologist, etc. Mr. President. This proposal has previously been made by members of the United States Congress, i.e. in the last legislature, but it was not possible for them to pass. According to recent reports from the Prison Institute, three psychologists are now employed by the Institute, one of which has a permanent residence in Little Houn, and is performing a treatment job where and at Sugni, as well as the implementation of a risk assessment plan, as it will be considered afterwards. In addition to 195 prison space in Iceland today, 164 persons are on parole, either with conditions of some kind, under electronic supervision or not. The three psychologists are thus assigned to the service of the nearly 400 - person group and are assigned to serve the group from the beginning of a sentence to the final parole. Thus, each psychologist has in his sheltered group some 130 people to care for. Incarceration is a form of pressure that is very burdensome. Each day of liberation can be an individual's greatest distress, so governments must do as well as they can when it is possible to do so. The primary objective of being imprisoned as they appear on the home page of a prison agency is that prisoners are secure and well-organized, that human and respectable communication is put in place, and that there are circumstances and environments that encourage prisoners to handle their issues. Those who get into the situation of breaking off, that we do not speak of breaking off in such a way that prison punishment awaits them, does not come out of nothing alone. Being in prison often has an extended life. So I'm saying that the background of individuals, life itself, family history, possible analysis of spiritual problems, and, above all, addictions of about 90% of inmates are of considerable importance, with very rare occurrences of suicide right after the steak, the sauce, and the green peas. Furthermore, the psychologists serving in prisons have a number of obligations to their shoulders other than to provide clinical psychology services, but let us remember that each psychologist is responsible for 130 prisoners. The three psychologists, however, are also required to perform a high risk and needs assessment, a public security program that is designed to assess the risks of the individual society. Such assessments are performed on the sufferers because of gross acts of violence, sexual assaults, and most of all because of child violations. Such assessments are necessary to improve the safety of the citizens after the end of the individual's sentence. It is thus assessed whether the individual is qualified to undergo probationary treatments or to obtain alternative treatments, as well as whether some subsequent treatments may need to be managed after the recovery and parole have ended. All this assessment is also in the hands of the three psychologists employed there. Psychologists also provide advice and help with prisoners and their families. They are also expected to conduct treatment walks due to low-frequency addicts in cooperation with the only representative of the prison agency. However, this is not yet done, for the three psychologists are also responsible for the training, oversight, and development of psychological work, as well as advice within the prison facility on unique matters. and finally they do research. I think everyone sees it, Mr. President, that the government has decided that dosing in this suit is absolutely inadequate. We must improve our efforts if we mean something with our will to reform those who end up behind bars. Because what is the purpose of punishment? Yes, the purpose is two. One is prevention to prevent further crime. Thus, imprisonment is considered good to show how adverse it is to commit crimes. You're decommissioned, you're set behind bars, but the purpose is also a correction, for everyone to agree that the prisoner comes out of prison as a better person, more experienced than before the person entered. Hence, it is time for punishment and how it is used in everything. Exhausting prison is expensive, and it is expensive even more difficult to do so. It is costly to bring individuals out of the community more active after abductment, for the entire social system needs to be costing much to the future because of a person who was not cared for, who was not cared for when the opportunity arose. The emphasis on prison imprisonment is to be on the correction of prisoners, with the goal of reducing the number of returns in prison. No psychologist has been attached to a prison in Akureyri or to a prison in Sweden. Rather, he will arrive at a convenient time, but in two places, there will usually be 34 individuals. Once a week, a psychiatrist in the prison at the Hólmshei, hosting both a guard guard guard and a bailiff, where there's room for 56 inmates - once a week. One psychologist, who has stuck at Little Lague, and also serves him Sogn, we're talking about over 100 spaces. We can see that the other two who do not have a regular presence in Little prison are the traveling psychologists who are supposed to take care of all the rest of the prisons, both the prisoners who are in prisons and, let's not forget it, including those who have experience, but there are 164 individuals. It is obvious to all who want to see that this system is not working, and we do not care for the responsibility of a better person who is in a decommissionment. In the present system, the main goal of psychologist service is to consider the public interest by evaluating the risks of those people who are there rather than somehow trying to make life better for them and making all of this better for all of us. Mr. President. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that from January 1, 2018, all of this country's prisons will be at least one active psychologist whose prisoners have access to without cost. In addition, it would be best for one person to be located in the prison office, which could then care for the services of those who have experience, as well as research and other assessments. However, it should be noted that the proposal assumes that a minister will be assigned to expand the service procedure, since it is very important that we go to it and without delay. Mr. President. I want to finish my speech by praying for a good hello to you. A senator and president of the General and Education Committee who now accepts the case and wishes the Commission a success in their work in bringing this matter to a successful port. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u53	A respectable president. We're here on a council proposal from what happened. paritaprevir Vala Vólva Helgadóttir and her party members in the United States. This is an upbuilding suggestion that I hope the council will respond well and accept as soon as possible. Our ideas that imprisonment should be reformed, should give individuals who are better citizens to share in the community, have no land or shore if we do not seriously consider these factors. Based on data available during the summer, e.g. not a medical professional in U.S. prisons since 2013. This one thing is serious. However, I am aware that this service is performed in some outstanding way if necessary, but there is no explanation or clear information about how it is done or whether there is a real organization about this vital aspect of health care for prisoners. There's a little more to be done around here. According to the Ministry of Justice, human rights to prisoners are not guaranteed because of lack of mental health. The Ministry believes that the procedure to carry out the sentence of full punishment does not guarantee the proper rights of prisoners under the rights of the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights. This has also been noted repeatedly. This was shown in the ministry's answer to the General agent who has made comments on these matters in his surveys regarding the State Accounting. And the European Council's committee on defense of torture has made repeated strong comments to the situation in Icelandic prisons. As shown in the synopsis proposal, professionals in the prisons are offered at a very limited dose and seriously underdeveloped. There are a total of three partial psychologists involved in all of the country's prisons. They do so once a week, even twice or in an irregular manner, and in most cases, they usually have a regular event. That's terrible. In fact, the same is true of medical and nursing services performed after evaluations without a constant presence. In case of emergency prisoners are transferred to a nearby medical facility. A mental - health director, however, believes that 50,575 percent of prisoners have a mental disorder and have made the statement that there are five or seven people who should not be imprisoned but are in a medical facility at any given time. However, there is no means to attend, since health institutions do not feel that they are in a position to accept them. Social advisers can play a very important role in prisons, and especially after follow-up, they do so as prisoners do. They even win. that solutions to the social and personal problems of the prisoners, which are often considerable, complex, delicate, and time - consuming. Two social workers work in all of the country's prisons and come to follow up. Each person sees that it's inadequate. While there is evidence that a student's advice for prisoners is given, one student in half works for all five prisons in the country. Clearly, this factor does not get space to meet the need or importance to make a successful life for prisoners. Not surprisingly, mental problems are a burdensome part of prison life. That is true both here and abroad. Norwegian studies show that about 35% of prisoners have shown evidence of a psychiatric problem for decomposition and were treated, and a slightly lower proportion had experienced a need but was not treated for decommissionation. This suggests that there is an unsatisfied need to be distributed in prison rooms. There is also a big difference between those serving for the first time and those who are serving repeatedly where the need is much greater in the latter group. There is also a major difference between the mental health of those who serve shorter sentences and those who serve long - term judgments. That doesn't have to be surprising. The younger prisoners also report better health than older inmates in mental health. That's quite a sight. A fourth prisoner serving in Norwegian prisons consumes medicinal products for mental illness, and the proportion is even higher for those serving sentences longer than five years. Mr. President. We here deal with the delicate and demanding work of community life, showing that we can and need to improve the situation. Of course, it is up to the goals set out in the synonym at that time. Senator. Freedom is a serious experience in itself, and we need to give our ideals wings to improve the individual and improve human society. This is not just by talking. This is done only by our actions. We have not yet done so in the affairs of prisoners.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala gave Helgadóttir for his history and for the contributions of this council decree. I think we could discuss the subjects of prisoners more often in this room, I think it's very important, because this group is often forgotten. When it comes to reforming prisoners, prisons play an enormously important role. So, I'm glad to hear that a council proposal this has come forth and that this is a chance to discuss prisoner issues. This particularly highlights psychological services for the prisoners. Then I'd like to mention it, so it's gonna be here that about 100 million are being added. K. between 2018 and 2019 in prison cases. I understand that there are estimated to be about 50 million due to the increase in prison guards and 50 million in psychiatry. It's a good thing to be part of that program because I agree with what was presented in a Senate speech before me as to how important the psych service is. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðjón - child of S. Brjánsson also referred to the services of mental - health professionals. I think there are important services performed in prisons. It contains social advisers, doctors and nurses, treatments, study advice, psychologists, and then religion. V.E.G. President. That is what I read about the home of a prison agency regarding the services available. I want to agree with the importance of our well - prepared quarters and to support them completely in their reformation. This is a number one, two and three being reformed. That is why I was interested when I heard an interview with the head of the prison, but he was just describing how successful we had been in this regard. The debate here often becomes a more severe form of punishment that may be needed in some cases, but I think the community in which they are primarily concerned is how we can help these agents for a better life and out of the cycle they have usually made. I think we're doing a lot of good things, so I'm sure we can do better. Looks like we're doing it, by the way. ... withan increase in funding next year. I just wanted to say that in terms of this resolution proposal, I think the Psychological Service is very important, that I, a respectable president, would also like to trust those who take this category to make arrangements for the funds they receive from the capital in the way they consider best. I think there is good reason for us at the High Council to stress this aspect, the Psychological Service, but I'm not sure if it's the best way to decide that there should be one psychologist in every prison in the country. They may vary in size, pressure may vary, and need to be different, perhaps requiring more drug support or so forth, guidance, or something like that. I think the good news is that we're giving in, and we're doing better, and there's good reason for us to talk about some emphasis on that subject. But for my part, I would like to trust the local authorities to evaluate where the need is most important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u55	Mr. President. I'm glad that we have an opportunity to discuss what this important concierge is all about, i.e. about psychological services and especially psychological services in prisons. This reflects what we are experiencing right now because of bitter and bitter experiences in our last year's years about the lack of psychological advice in general for people of all ages, especially for young people, but also for prisons. It is all too seldom that we allow ourselves to look into prisons and think more about what we can do so that our prisons are a real penitentiary, so we are building up the individuals in Icelandic prisons. It can be done in many ways. Happily, we see certain developments, e.g. With regard to education, which has very much to say, as well as other resources, there is a lack of psychological services. With all due respect for the two psychologists who are employed in the Prison Department, there are over or around 400 prisoners in Iceland. So there is a large group that needs attention, and we know that it is exactly the group that needs to know that it has access to this kind of service, both for the prisoners themselves, for the structure, for counsel, for support, for extramarital in prisons, but not least for the building up of people so that they can become active members of the community at the time of publication. In fact, it is all that matters in my opinion that people can feel better when they come out of prison, as well as that their community welcomes them and tries to help them on the path they choose and want to go to. Increased psychiatry is necessary, and Congress proposals for Congress members of the United States are needed and well, and I especially welcome it. In fact, I can see that in the Senate arrangement, there are three points of psychiatric status. My information says there are two psychologists, but it's good if they've increased in the last eight years. We know who've been visiting these prisons regularly, Little Man and other places, that this is one of the first things prisoners call us senators, i.e. lack of psychological services. It's been that way ever since I got into Congress. Of course, things have changed for the better, but this is a group that is easy to push aside when setting priorities. It is convenient to put the prisoners aside and say: We need to focus on other matters. I'd like to protest that approach. Therefore, I stress that it is a joy to have an opportunity here at the Hall to discuss how we can build up our community, and prisons are part of society. I'd like to state that on the conniving side that this council arrangement will be handled very well and that it will provide a proper course with the aim of ensuring better psychological services in prisons to which all prisoners have access. In itself, there is little more to this than that, for I hope there will be a parapolitic agreement on this matter. There is plenty of time to do this so that it can be obtained right away during the spring season. We will assist our team to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u56	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you very much for the fine discussion that has taken place on this conquistador of our council. It's very important to discuss prisoner matters, and I truly agree with what they say. Haraldsdóttir I'm willing to do that at any time because the subjects of a prisoner are very numerous and touch many surfaces. This particular point, as a psychiatric service in prison, is just a tiny fraction of all the subjects we can discuss in prisoner affairs. As I came into the previous speech, this is a large group. There are 195 prison spaces in Iceland today. Then we are not talking about the 164 experienced ones today. It's almost 400 people we're talking about here and now we're taking Generalis the time to talk about smaller groups than there are. It's a group, just like what happened. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who may not have a loud word, came in. Certainly, a prisoner's organization, has been tremendously powerful in bringing our attention to their cause and to the legal refinements we need to make. But I think we at the council can do better. These activities need to be discussed with all, about study and the possibilities for work and other activities. I also want to discuss the issues of female prisoners, which I believe are often associated with problems other than males. Although it is not totally undetectable, it is often more complex and often difficult for women to deal with. Some feel that it is best to tighten the penalty much, preferably to throw away the keys. I think they're getting very low. I think we can all agree that we need to do better in this regard. In terms of what was said in the matter of both. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir Harald's, trusting in a prison agency for the project and why to decide that there is usually a psychologist in each prison, it is simply to build a treatment relationship, to build trust so that the prisoner who lives in the decommissions and lives in this place will be used for a certain time. You can go and get help and service to someone who is present every day. Thus, a firm trust is formed, and when it comes to problems, the person of the psychologist can seize the individual. It is not that a prisoner's feelings are linear, it is well - known for those who are e.g. in a very long sentence, must be severely punished, fall suddenly, and without bringing down much darkness. Nothing has to happen at first, it may as well happen somewhere in the middle of a penalties. It is important that such trust is formed, that it is easy to approach, and easy to access, because, of course, we want to care for these individuals properly. We have an emergency inside the jails. Then it can be very difficult to make an appointment and wait for weeks. It needs to build trust, too, because there are individuals who may not attend this service or who have little faith in it, so people need to be trained to rely on a psychologist for their problems. However, while it is not necessary every day, it is also about that, as I did in my first speech, that the subject and task of psychologists who are now employed at the prison facility and at the headquarters of the NYU are very different from that of just being in clinical psychology and psychological interviews. These individuals can care for their assignments even if they are present. By being located in prison itself, they build this trust, even though they don't do interviews every day. You build this trust by going out, you're getting yourself a cup of coffee, you're having some kind of dealings with this group. In that case, there are more people who experience a variety of fluctuations that take place inside the penitentiary, within the group. There may be a new prisoner who changes the mood completely in the group and a psychiatrist who is present to see this very quickly and safely, not the psychologist who is located in the office west of the city of Reykjavík. That's why I think this is important, but it's not just because, it's also because, like, cot. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came in, that there is a tendency to cut out this kind of service when there is a potential problem. This service is somehow the one that falls between us. Then it is better to make the decision that this is a permanent feature because psychological services and therapy are incredibly important to those who may come from heavy consumption or who have a broken background, so to speak. Of course, not everyone is. Of course, this is different from a group of individuals, but the situation is that these individuals are already in prison. They're out for a sentence, and it's not for nothing. You don't get a lot of punishment without me thinking. It is usually something that is behind, apart from what has been stated earlier, that 90% of those who serve punishment, according to protective information, have some kind of addiction problems. Other than that, I refer to this synopsis proposal and hope for a good job at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. A traveling overseer for the history and for the talk. I listened to her talks and other senators who have participated in the talk from the side hall and may have felt that I didn't have to talk, but I would like to ask myself why. Senator two questions about this fine case, along with other members of the United States. First, it is assumed that there will be a regular psychologist at every job station or at the clinic mentioned in the motion. I wondered, " Is it enough simply to say in the suggestion or decide that there will be an increase in psychologists at the Prison Institute? ' Hv. A senator may know as well as I do that to make up places, such as the Bolivians in the country, if we can put it that way, it can often be difficult to obtain health care professionals. Hv. A senator knows that, as I said before. Whether it would be better for them to be hired by a prison agency or not, they would have a permanent position somewhere. It is possible to use such items as kype and other items to handle interviews. A place like the Chedrouse, in spite of all 23 spaces, may be fully committed to the use of local psychologists for several weeks. But during the week, for example, were needed for psychologists in some other prison facility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for the question. I don't think it's right to have it more hairy than that. I think it's very good that we set certain limits that we should have one psychologist with an presence in each prison. I don't think the prison at the case of Cuiscoggó, that's just outside of Styrofoam, is any different than the jail of Little-Sun and Sugni when it comes to being out on the shore. If there's a wish, I think we could make a very good man's room for a psychologist on Cheebreg. Then we have Akureyri. Then we have Hólmshei, which is right by the city line. I don't think we're supposed to let the possible problems with human psychology stop the progress of such a national action. Because of all the work the psychologists who are now working, I reiterate that they can do them their jobs, even though they have their desk at Cheebrell, Hólmski, Akureyri, Little Melun, or anywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Later, I'd like to take part in a case as a matter of course. paritaprevir Guðjón's Brjánsson was indirectly involved in his speech earlier. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Helga Vala the daughter of Helgadóttir about other health services in prisons in general and whether the senator would agree. A top-of-the-art Board of Education would take it even in its discussion, or if the senator thought it much of this proposal, overexploiting the focus and creating the possibility that the proposal would not be approved. The Senator knows as much as I do the discussion that has been suspended for over a year's long period of overscrupulous health care in the country's prisons. It is absolutely clear that it cannot be a task to assign those who are in the midst of a need for freedom of corruption to support poor health care. That is, in effect, a rule against being the goal. But then we'll come back to what's always this eternity of design. That is why at the end of the countercontrovert, I want to admit that I'm not making the test at all - so to speak in a chair, President - to try to avoid getting a clear message from a prison agency. The question I asked earlier was primarily a practitioner.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager for the second question that leads to a different health care. I'm just saying, it's very important to have a full analysis of it. Maybe it's the best thing you can do. A health minister to put it on. I have asked for a meeting about the mental health status in prisons and wait to have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister on it. It'd be on schedule sometime, hopefully soon. But with regard to other health care services, what can be said. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson has read my mind there. You fear that when the matter somehow becomes large, the focus will be lost. Sometimes it can be good to take a very specific matter and try to finish it, try to pass it through, rather than plan too hard at first hour. But now it's just that I have to throw the ball back to it. A senator on a welfare committee who challenges him to have some serious health care evaluation in the country's prisons. I don't think there's a need for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u61	V.E.G. President. I'm here offering a proposal for a interpretation of the availability of iridator services and the media services of the state radio in foreign lands. With me, the suggestion goes. Councilmen of Sigurður Páll, Birggir Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson of Sjönn, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson, and Þóldadur Sæmundsson. According to Article 1. Law on the State Radio, Media in Public Service, No. 23/2013, is assigned to promote democratic discussions, cultural diversity and social cohesion in an Icelandic community with public media services. TRUST is a national medium and shall be given its varied roles professionally, ambition, honesty, and respect. It must be cultivated by the English language, culture, history of the nation, and cultural heritage. The role and duties of the II Society are further stated. the part of the law. Using a appeal to the legal role of TRUV, the aim of the synonym is to do as a major part of the Agency's service, such as TV and radio broadcasts and child material, available for people who have a legal home in the country, but are temporarily abroad. Transporters believe that such a bioavailability contributes to the protection of the Icelandic language and the accession of the language. Therefore, the aim should be to have access to the service as open as possible. That's what matters. Many Icelanders temporarily move to less or longer foreign residents. Many older citizens and others have winters in distant lands, but they pay taxes and obligations in Iceland, including radio fees, that are a source of Kingdom News activity. Many have had to invest in special equipment for these broadcasts. It is necessary to meet this group so that they have the same access to the Kingdom radio chemical system and media services as well as others who pay for it. It would be preferable that a special website would be established for users outside Iceland, where they could register with electronic IDs or Isensel keys and thus have access to the material. It seems that such work is partly begun, as the VOLV website shows that all radio programs from Channel 1, Channel 2, Rondo, and by the krakaV, are to be available abroad without restrictions. It should, e.g. To be available via a MRV supplement, i.e. apps, or service providers like Tuneln. Transporters of the Parliamentary Directive encourage the Minister of Education and Culture on behalf of the State Radio to explore any solutions that make possible access to the Agency's chemical and media services as open abroad as possible, to form by the use of electronic or an ice key as stated earlier. It is suggested that a minister introduces a plan for these matters no later than in January 2019. After a discussion, I suggest that the proposal go to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u62	Mr. President. I recommend here a bill, which is actually the case with all Porta's members. paritaprevir Except for Gunnarsson's Hrafn Drafni, his deputy is on this bill. It was simply because of reason. A senator was absent, but Porta's party is all behind this proposal for interpretation of the use and culture of medicine modes. The matter has been presented twice before, in the 147s and 148s, and is now reassigned. I'm taking this case on behalf of why. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, the first carrier of this bill. I'm just gonna kill down here into the introduction of the bill's report, with the permission of a president: With the motion, a minister is assigned to write a bill to solve the current legal environment by allowing the use and culture of medication modes. During the preparation of the bill, it is important that all factors that make a big difference in the course of change should be protected. The experience of neighboring nations with the rules of drug use is rich, so it is important that a minister uses the experience of the successful nations. It is necessary to ensure that with the prime minister that the culture and distribution will be safe and that those who have it, as well as the patients, will not be punished. A drug mode is the name for cannabis or herbal preparations used for medical purposes. The long-term use of the plant has many different modes of use. Over the past few years and decades, a number of studies have been carried out on the medical effects of drugs and on the benefits to patients of its use. These studies have shown that drug disturbances have real use value, including to treat cancer, nerve disorders, and other serious conditions. In the United States, most of the government laws have remained unchanged over the past few decades, apart from occasional rise in the penalty frame. Since there is clear evidence that legislation around the world is moving toward abduction of the deadly policy that has been the principle of substance law, what steps should be taken in this country and what improvements are needed. It is true that the use of cannabis was also legal, e.g. In the United States, perhaps a country of the ban since 1960, but perhaps a little longer in the United States itself. The ban has its roots in the face of extreme prejudice and persecution against Mexican and black people in the United States. It was used to obtain more money for an institution that had handled the prohibition with alcohol but who lost the money when alcohol was again permitted and had to find a new source of guilt to pursue money. It was then easy to take advantage of fear of the stranger and of those who had different colors than the dominant forces of the day. But I will continue my report, with permission from the President: In this context, for both drug and systemic use, recent scientific research and the experience of neighboring countries could be considered in the context of the rules on such topics. Among the countries that have now authorized the use of drugs are Austria, Belgium, Canada, Greece, Czech Republic, Chile, Uruguay, Colombia, Finland, Germany, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Argentina, Australia, Cyprus, Cyprus (for cancer patients), Denmark, Georgia, Jamaica, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malta, Norway, Peru, Portugal, San Marino, Switzerland, Zibwe, Spain, and the United States. For national laws and regulations, it is stated that the use of the plant is illegal based on Article 2, 4, 5, and 6. the law on addiction and drugs, No. 65/1974, as well as law No. 13/1985 and 68/2001, and 2. gro, compare 1 mgr. 14th par. Implementation of narcotics and other monitoring materials. This category of plants cannot be considered correctly by transporters, especially when it has been accepted as a possible drug value far greater than if it was classified as a drug or drug. Then the current category prevents candidates from being able to use the plant for research. A respectable president. Here we also come to a point of considerable importance when it comes to this synonym, and it is a moderate rule when it comes to the application of judicial action, especially when people use this plant for medical purposes and have the right to self - determination and the right to the best health care. For this reason, the average rule of punishment for medical treatment cannot be considered to be punishable, to punish people for the treatment of serious conditions associated with serious illnesses that have demonstrated their usefulness. Of course, this proposal goes on to suggest that this plant could be used for medical purposes, and a general permit or something is not being called off, and it is not a criminal offense, despite the fact that a cross-cutting group of all concerned persons, i.e. In the judicial system, the Red Cross, the police, the Justice Department, and members of Congress have concluded that it was proper to take advantage of drugs for personal use. However, this issue does not reverse it but simply means that experts can prescribe this medicine to those who want it and to those who need it. The report continues, with the permission of the president: Therefore, the current legal environment prevents patients who may benefit from the treatment characteristics of the drug modes from being able to access the product in a legitimate and safe way. In some cases it might even be said that the position of the medicinal product as an illegal substance violates the rights of patients to obtain the best possible treatment and health care options available. In view of the number of studies that have shown the use of medication modes for treatment reasons, there is good reason to set the patient rules for use. In recent years, the use of medication modes for the treatment of various diseases and health problems has been studied extensively. Their results have increasingly demonstrated the use of the plant. At that time, the World Health Organization (WHO) has defined cannaboliol, one of the active substances in the drug mode, as a drug with high treatment options for epilepsy. Another application of medication modes can refer to a study presented in 2010 by investigators at the University of California. The study was conducted using the U.S. FDA standards, but its findings indicated that drug abuse is the preferred treatment for patients with neuropathy and other serious medical conditions. Several central nervous system studies measured the effects of the plant on neuropathic pain, cancer pain, diabetes, HIV/AIDS, spinal cord injury, and many other terrestrial diseases. These studies all suggest that the plant will reduce pain, as well or better than the medicines used today. Other studies conducted by independent doctors and scientists have also examined the effects of the plant on different diseases and its medical functions. These include the study Shaheen E. Lakhan and Marie Rowland, published in the December 2009 issue of BMC neurology. The study demonstrated that the use of the plant in MS patients reduced the negative effects of the disease. In this case, comparable studies have shown the use of the plant in reducing migraine symptoms, a study published in the American magazine Headache: The Journal of Head and Face Pain, May 2015. When it comes to scientific research on the use of the plant, periodicity testing is one of the most important factors, i.e. studies investigating a large number of other studies and their results are analysed to provide a complete picture of the available scientific data. An article on such study was published in 2013 in the journal Pharmacot therapy under the title ◯Lóstology and the clinical effects of drug use in this case - so I don't take it lightly, by permission of the president. The results of this study were that the plant had indistinguishable medical value but that in a legal setting where the use of the plant is prohibited and punished, it would be difficult to monitor and measure the impact of its use. This arrangement suggests that a minister be assigned to prepare and present a bill as a home for pharmaceutical use and culture. This is the first step toward the medication mode sentence. Such changes need to be well considered, and many adjustments are needed. Therefore, a minister is authorized to write the bill to be submitted. Many nations have already taken the steps discussed. It is necessary for the Icelandic government to consider and mark the progress that has been made in this case. The progress of those who are now taking place in the Western world cannot be considered to be in line with the fact that in 2018, patients who are still choosing this treatment course are still being punished. It is necessary that the Minister's bill should identify a 6th paragraph change. track No. 65/1974, for dependence and drugs. Then a minister will have to put a Regulation on the basis of the law which establishes a command on how to use and practice. The setting of such rules alone is not so complicated that it takes a long time for preparation, yet it is true that the minister of health and the Ministry would prepare this bill. At the end, Madam President, I'd like to make some reviews that I believe will likely be in the discussion on this subject or at least have been given a discussion of such matters. These include repeated indication that the use of medicinal products or administration of cannabis over a head is associated with an increased likelihood of bipolar disorder. It should be possible at the beginning of this discussion that evidence simply does not point in that direction. However, a correlation has been shown between consideration for subjects with bipolar disorder in a cannabi component. A causal relationship has not been established, i.e. in the case of bipolar disorder. Even if I'm pointing. to the surgeon's answer to Ólafur's question on the Skorrdalur of this subject, as it is observed that this causal relationship cannot be demonstrated. In addition, recent studies have been published that refuted these very common statements. In addition, I would like to show that in Denver, Colorado, where cannabis has been allowed for some time, there has been a 25% reduction in opioid use for pain and there has been no increase in bipolar disorder. Is this one of many examples showing the benefit of cannabis instead of the usual opioid analgesics we are here in Iceland, are dealing with the consequences, as well as that the incidence of bipolar disorder is not increased as cannabis is accessible and allowed. But these were some things I wanted to kill on. In addition, I would like to reiterate what I said at the beginning of my speech, that we as lawgivers cannot maintain judicial decisions and judicial action against those who prefer medical treatment or treatment of pain that they consider best for themselves and their health and punish them by imprisonment or by going on criminal record. I don't think it resists the average sentence of punishment action, and hence, we should at least decline the penalty for the use of cannabis for medical purposes, we would like to be a state of justice that accepts its commission to severely punish its citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the history and contributions of this council resolution, which I notice has been submitted before in two ways. I have not had the privilege of sharing in a discussion about it before or of being able to follow it through. My first question to why. In times past, or in the cases where the speaker has previously been asked what they are, he will find out what they are. I've made it while you're still in it. A senator was giving his speech to cover it a little. There are a number of accounts that appear to be in some cases black or white, either along or in opposition. But the first question is, Have the plaintiffs made some changes in the council arrangement? Have they taken into account any of the above - mentioned reports? Has this affected the way the matter is presented?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u64	Madam President. I've got to feel bad. I'm giving this case on behalf of a senator. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, and I have not been able to study the comments of a speaker in their posts in order to answer precisely how much they were taken into consideration. However, it is proper to assume that since the 148th legislation, this issue remains the same. At the beginning of the report, it is shown that at least it has not changed. On the other hand, it is possible, of course, that this is a judicial arrangement involving a health minister, the minister of the jury, a tremendous power to consider all the factors to take into account in making such laws. That would be the best. Of course, a minister of self - authority has the right to tailor it according to what the stakeholders have to say on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u65	A respectable president. I have a complete understanding that where it is. A senator is delivering this for another incident. A senator does not know him all the comments. But I slid them only, and the review of a surgeon's office at 148th is exactly what is needed for us to accept drugs in this country and to be referred specifically to by the European Institute of Medicine, which has not been recognized as a drug. I don't think anyone did that. In one of my quick reviews of the past, something happened that the countries that legalized this as a drug passed through another regular task that we generally have about drugs. It has been a political decision for the lawgiver in that regard. So I want to hear from you. A senator and prominent speaker: Is that really what it is? Senators want to do this? That we're going somewhere else, in any way, going to the law of this medicine? For the rule we're used to? Or want some. Or do members of the Parliament, whether for medical care or for others, focus on them and suggest that people can cultivate them in this country? It is also well considered in the reviews of the requirements for medication, both in the regularity, in the format, in the format, in the quality requirements, and in other matters. That's quite a bit. I wonder what. Transporters have more political messages they've been wanting to make with this synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u66	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. To answer, of course, the development of this case is a political factor on the part of Pirata, but in other respects a significant trend has taken place in this series of issues. To a significant extent, the use of cannabis for therapeutic use has been accepted. Now, the last time, the chief medical official in England, I'm having a very difficult time translating the English medical cure to England- Dame Sally Davies... - England's surgeon. [[Up front.]] It declared that the evidence for the medical use of cannabis was taken very closely and that it was an both highly respected, international and scientific institutions as well as regular institutions. So does the World Health Organization. So it is increasingly accepted. Then I can also refer to a letter from the surgeon I referred to in my review address, where it certainly turns out that the surgeon at the time he wrote this letter, which was 2009, if I remember correctly, could not prescribe cannabis as a drug in the position it was then. But, by permission of the president, he said: ▪ The indication is [the use of cannabis] nausea and vomiting caused by cancer treatment, loss of appetite in AIDS patients, neuropathic pain in MS patients and addition of pain relief in patients with advanced malignancies. The letter also shows that the surgeon considers the possibility of prescribing in certain severe cases where other medicinal products have not been effective. And I repeat, this is a petition for Congress where a minister is entrusted with an export for exactly what this says.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u67	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the presentation of this synopsis proposal. I have to say, I'm celebrating the discussion on it because the discussion on this subject, which is the use and culture of drug modes, is often at high levels, as is fair in our good society. When preparing for my arrival here, I spoke with two good oncology doctors, who I have access to as well as through the reviews received at the last time the Porta council proposed a non-conformation proposal. After listening to the experts I spoke to, everyone who wants me to have no cures, I've actually come a long way from understanding this council arrangement. And why? Yes, because the experts I spoke with pointed out that science was better off to the point that they had found many drugs that actually worked as well as the cannabis mentioned here, this drug mode. There is a medicine named e.g. Marinolol, which works as well as the drug mode to relieve nausea and anorexia. Then, in its review, the National Institute of Pharmacology of Iceland pointed out that the product of Spativex contains cannabineol/cannabidiol, which has been used for multiple sclerosis patients. Thus I was told, and I can see in some comments that science, pharmacology, has used the materials contained in this plant. They have used their medical research through their research and research to find and remove the useful material from the plant and separate from the drug that causes the drug, which causes the person to get high and become addicted. Of course, that is what we must want, to be able to use the material that is useful to them, but perhaps to avoid the use of potentially harmful materials. Then we're talking about the person coming out of the world and feeling really bad about it, both the person and the person closest to it. It was also interesting to read a review from the associate nurse who actually rhymes with what a doctor said to me, as shown in the Senate resolution proposal by Mrs. President's permission: These studies have shown that drug disturbances have real use value, including to treat cancer, to treat nerve disorders, and to treat other serious diseases That's exactly the sentence the doctor I talked to him about and said it was a far cry. You can also read the comments of Social Nurses. It is very interesting to read the reviews and hear from those dealing with this group of patients each day, since they make every effort to make the patient's daily life as appropriate as possible. Thus, because of the difficult interventions involved, of course, hellfire and severe anorexia and nausea may be followed. in chemotherapy but also other interventions. The doctor I talked to spoke to said that a drug crash had no treatment value, that there were no clinical guidelines based on studies that recommended it. He said it could certainly be a relaxation factor, but there was no cure for life - threatening diseases that are caused by drug use. It was a claim to me, and it can also be read in the comments I have read. It is worth it for the Generals, although they also have doctors and possibly pharmacists, to listen to experts when it comes to this. I have to say, I think that's very good for what's happened. For the treatment of potential health committees, both pharmacists and those who daily prescribe drugs for those suffering from various diseases; cancer, neurological disorders, or other serious illnesses. There is knowledge. They will likely be able to tell us exactly which medicines contain the active substance in this medicine mode, how it is written out, and whether any exceptions are usually provided today so that the person who wants to use it can do so. Other than that, I have to agree with that. A shipman and a what. Ævarsdóttir The important thing is that we also speak at the council that criminal consumption doses of cannabis, while I think it's a real challenge in the system to delay the police when youths have one ion in their chest. But there is another discussion. Thanks for the discussion, by the way, and I'm looking forward to paying attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u68	Madam President. We'll discuss this again. I'm going to be at the low level, not at the highest level, like a dog. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir was almost warning us, I agree, and look to society only. There are many things we worry about, both alcohol and tobacco. It has been found that young people have cut down the consumption according to all the numbers I am familiar with. When it comes to drug abuse, there has been a slightly different increase in drug consumption, and especially in the face of serious effects. I looked up the morning paper today, and there I found an article on the exact subject. So, with the permission of the President, they said this is what they said: ▪ The survival team grew wider. Large increase in mortality in young people. Increased consumption and increased effort in recent years. Why do I mention this? Yeah, that's the frame. These are the external circumstances we are discussing; drugs, marijuana, hash, cannabis, whatever we want to mention. This is the frame we're discussing. These are the social conditions that surround us, and we need to look to them as we discuss how we react to cannabis. Bioavailability is important. We've discussed this with alcohol, and we can discuss it in connection with access to these products, whether from home culture or in some other way. And another one that has been presented here, that is, the legal guidance of certain substances. Then the question is: Are these chemicals being legalized? Or these chemicals are being legalized in general, as they have been done in several countries, and they happened by the wind. paritaprevir Þórdís Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdóttir? We simply look at these subjects and appreciate their spiritual harm, their community, and the individual himself. I'm going to say that, although I'm a geographer and not a doctor or a pharmacist, that a substance called the THC, and everyone knows that is in that lips, it's actually harmful to people, it's harmful to the brain. A number of studies prove this and nothing else. Yes, a person might say that there is a particular drug application in every society, and we need to deal with it in a reasonable way. But we always have to put this in the back, the stuff itself, what it does, and even the social conditions I mentioned earlier. Then we can look at this component, which is a bit of a component. On medication mode, or cannabis which medicines are used, you may have some abnormalities. I can't do it simply because I don't have that kind of knowledge. It may be better to discuss whether to allow it to be used, but it has been found that other drugs are being replaced today. To what extent it is, I am not judgmental either. But I believe doctors recognize and know exactly what to do. Suppose a drug disaster was allowed, i.e. canabis as a medicine. What, then, is wrong with using the same laws as other drugs? The bioavailability will then be sufficient through prescriptions. They are prescriptions for these medicines, such as all other prescription medicines. I cannot see that the bioavailability of patients requiring and needing to use this medicine is somehow reduced or limited by the introduction of this product as a sale and use of any other medicinal product. So to be said, I kind of dare tourists to explain to myself why it would be so difficult to allow them even to grow, whether at home or at some particular place. Is there any benefit in this in tons, probably as a drug, a drug, or its value, produced in the world? I view breeding as unexplained, why it is needed here in a country, whether at home or in any other place. Besides, I don't see what this case has to do with criminal abuse. It is, of course, the price of allowing the drug, of course, that is the delinquency of the crime, but if this is so connected with the criminal consumption of cannabis in another way, I'm not involved but with the idea that in itself I'm not necessarily opposed, for I agree entirely that it is very harsh to punish people for feeling one gram of grass in their possession. But there's another arm. Finally. I think it's totally unacceptable to accept the proposal. It is simply so that within the country, whether at home or in other places, it opens up the access and encourages what I call a state of complacency or a positive attitude toward these materials, which I consider to be a dangerous attitude in the case of cannabis. There is no such thing as better drugs in the long order of drug abuse, which we have countless examples in all families, more or less. People who have begun their drinks with cannabis and then end up somewhere else. Medicinal products in this relationship are not relevant. It's a lot bigger than that. I would like to put my public health first, Madam President, and simply ask, "Where is the moderate when it comes to it? I think it's a pretty long way to go. And if it's a political point to propose this synonym, I just think it's bad politics. I'm going to say I'm not going to do anything for her.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u69	Madam President. We're here to discuss a proposal for interpretation of the use and culture of medicine modes. This is the Senate resolution proposal of Porta's senators and will be the third time she's submitted at the council. Hv. Senators will probably remember the discussion from the last council on the same subject. There were, for example, some of the factors involved and were discussed in various ways. I'm pointing out what. Congress members are to read my speech from last year. I'm not going to read it to you. Today's Parliamentaries, who are in general sleep and, in many respects, are as good as I tell them myself. But it wasn't that I was going to discuss specifically, but I wanted to discuss one statement that came with the Senate proposal last year and it came from the Iceland Medical Association. In this review, members of the Parliament include the members of the council. Explaining how to study and read an article from the medical journal. Her authors are Arnar Jan Jónsson, Hera Birgisdóttir and Engilbert Sigurðsson. The article will discuss the use of cannabis and the risk of psychosis and the development of schizophrenia. These scholars cite a wide range of fields of science and research, all of which actually appear at the same well, i.e. that the use of these substances to a significant extent increases the risk of psychotic symptoms and schizophrenia. This does not mean that the material is useless, we use lots of drugs and substances that can cause serious side effects, even serious diseases, at least. Often, one of the reasons why we use that medicine is that we have nothing better than that, that we have no better advantage in the situation. Let us not forget that when we are talking about drugs, we are talking about subjects who have gone through extensive research, subjects who have gone through very difficult research that have often led to the cessation of the medicinal product and never go to market. And in the case of tetrahydrothaneols, the active substances of the cannabis plant, there are no specific studies in which these medicines are directly measured against other medicines for the same symptoms or the same diseases. Let us also see that we are almost always talking about symptomatic treatment when we use drugs such as cannabinoid. We are not talking about the treatments with these medicines. We're talking about symptomatic treatment. However, the active substance stated by the World Health Organization has the potential for benefit, i.e. probebidiol is already manufactured and can be obtained in a tablet form using a separate pack from the Marketing Authorisation Agency. Some Icelandic patients use it for that purpose, including children. The claim, as was done here, and in general, that the drug is most effective in the treatment of epilepsy. Yes, it helps something in a small subset of children with epilepsy. The small number of children in Iceland who have this specific type of epilepsy will benefit from the current access to the medicine in such a way. However, there is a huge leap from there to the intention of allowing the growth and use of the material in a general way. Not even in the suggestion whether or not a person should be able to grow this in the living room or, in any way, to define the level of this culture, whether it will be standard, what state the plant should be used, etc. No, Madam President, we just haven't come far enough to be able to state properly whether this plant is usually useful. There are also hundreds of studies. What we do know, however, is that everywhere we increase the availability of substances that can be abused, whether we allow it or not, the use is increased. We also know that there is a linear relationship between increased use of substances that can be abused and drug abuse and the potential problems. That's why I don't see the point of adding into Iceland's nest one way. I've previously declared by the speaker that the criminal use of cannabis or drugs is usually a brilliant advantage, and nothing is wrong with it in itself. In fact, I've said here before that we should pursue the real criminals in that regard, those who sell and produce. That's much more reasonable to me. However, the fact that other nations have gone a certain way and allowed use and that other nations have a different method of medication, not one of which is in my mind. We would not like to have the same medical legislation as some nations that allow cannabis and some countries that allow cannabis to have our administration. It must always be the tailor-made profile for each community. I don't see any reason to go further on these subjects, and we should apply the advice of experts, as mentioned earlier. Almost all experts who expressed themselves on the subject when it was last reported strongly against its approval. I think that's enough evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u70	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a proposal for interpretation of the use and culture of medicine modes. This case has come from the beginning. It looks like the third time for Martyr's members. So there's been a lot of publicity, and we talked about it a few times, and I'm going to say it again. A drug mode is the name for cannabis or herbal preparations used for medical purposes. Says by permission of the president: ▪ The long - range use of the plant's herbal product has many other uses. I'm not going to go deep in it, and I'm not going to admit, as everyone knows, that I don't have medical knowledge and I'm not an expert on drugs or medicine. I tend to listen to the language of experts and professionals in that field, and as noted in the case of some of the senators, the most skilled experts in the country have protested against the proposal. We should not begin to lower or alter our thresholds in any way. I'd like to grab the report for a minute. It says, by permission of the President: Therefore, the current legal environment prevents patients who may benefit from the treatment characteristics of the drug modes from being able to access the product in a legitimate and safe way. In some cases it might even be said that the position of the drug mode as an illegal substance violates the rights of patients to obtain the best possible treatment and health care available. I think it's something special. In the case of a layman, if I have just one thing left, they believed that a patient could choose what he considered best for himself. Then I wondered: " Should we overlook medical reasons, what doctors suggest regarding treatment? No, I'm inclined to believe we shouldn't. If I read the reviews of the case and I've been inside the previous phase, it says, for example. in a report from the surgeon general: In all cases, use of at least 4 mg/day as a single agent should be considered. As useful as cannabis. In other conditions, the use of this medicinal product is uncertain. It is proved true that we have medicines that can be used for the same purpose. Patients have been taken out of the literature in certain cases except that they may be less likely to use cannabis, a group of people who are known to be reaching a particular audience. If I return to the custody of the surgeon general by permission of the President: The most pronounced side effects of cannabis intake have been well - known for decades, and new ones have been seen in recent years. Recently, cognitive impairment due to cannabi's consumption has been observed to be more severe and more frequent than previously thought, as well as psychosis or psychosis. I can't see that we're concerned with ignoring the comments that come from a surgeon if we were to put ourselves in the special position of saying we know and know better. Besides that, we live in this country with so many people and good institutions working specialists on detoxification and treatment of addiction diseases. In my conversations with those people, I have found that deduction, e.g. cannabis intake is the most intense deduction that people go through. There are often misunderstandings about these subjects, claiming that they are more milder and that, so to speak, an innocent person is using them. The fact is, the process of deduction is the most difficult and difficult to deal with. Let us look to it. And I'd also like to read from a review from a friend of Icelandic nurses. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ From the text of the Parliament's odorary proposal and the covering of the analysis, it is suggested that general use and production of cannabis are being opened in this country. It also mentions the use of medications in the treatment of cancer, nerve disorders, and other serious diseases that are not really there. There's another group that thinks this is happening. The review also says: There are few careful studies to demonstrate the efficacy of the medicinal product in the treatment of the conditions in which the medicinal product is thought to be effective. Excessive studies have not shown significant benefits for cancer patients. This may cause many serious side effects like other medicines. Medicinal products that we have on the market, products we use and are recognized, have been through extensive and thorough research, and have been investigated according to the most precise standards. As a modern society, we must build our plans, projects, and attitudes toward the research and science that we trust most. In another word, we fight science and evolution in it, but in the word, we are so able to resist it and intend to have better knowledge and knowledge of things than those who have educated in them. In concluding the suggestion, it says: It is essential that the Minister's bill should identify a 6th paragraph change. track No. 65/1974, for dependence and drugs. Then a minister will have to put a Regulation on the basis of the law which establishes a command on how to use and practice. The setting of such rules alone is not so complicated that it takes a long time for preparation, yet it is true that the minister of health and the Ministry would prepare this bill. This is very interesting to me, that you can shake out your sleeve like nothing's happened. I am a great spokesman for culture and for using our land, using our resources on land, using electricity to produce vegetables and food, which is where I lay the line. I don't think this is the way for us to use the resources. I can't tell which way to go in it. I may be too narrow when this is my turn, but it's a big step to go out into growing hamsters or cannabis in this country for that purpose. I guess it's grown enough of what I understand, and we're trying to deal with it and stop it. In all cultures, it has to be emphasized as to which areas are used, which method is best, which is suitable for the market, and what is to be used for. I don't know about this. I may be able to grow grass and tuna, but this is not what I would stress. It must be quite a long process and a long way to go. I encourage us to listen to our finest people and the most skilled experts in these matters. We're dealing with increased drug abuse here, unfortunately, that's the fact here as in many other places, but the results of all our research and research that are involved in addiction and consumption tell us that there is an increased bioavailability. Sadly, that is the situation, and we must look to it. Suppose that there will be some cultures and special rural areas in this area, then access would likely increase. How will we accomplish this? What frame will we put our hands on it? Besides, we've got a drug here that's been investigated. You can find materials and create substances that have the same effect as intended for the plant, so I don't think there's any reason to go on this. I will not rely on myself to support this matter in view of the fact that I want to listen to our most skilled people, who know how to act and clearly what they're talking about. I think we have an excellent frame of such a matter here. When it comes to dealing with addiction, we are looked forward to it. I think we should keep that place, watch respected research and science, and follow our best men's instructions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u71	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The members of the council for an interesting discussion, and I'm going to try to answer the comments that were made at the time I'm being dosed to do so. I might just start in chronological order. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir and other whatnot. Councilmen have suggested that products in the market have been identified that have exactly the same function, those substances that are used in the cannabis plant, or in the medicine plant as we call them, and they provide the same results. I would like to say that the surgeon general of Britain and U.S. surgeon general has made it necessary to make unequivocal use of drugs. In addition, I would like to add, and I am something that I will give a considerable witness in the few minutes I have, that in the letter of a surgeon in 2009 to the Ólafur Skorrdalur of the lateness, the use of drugs cannot be excluded especially in serious exceptional situations, as indicated by him, when other drugs have not worked. It's something the surgeon says. And I'm going to use this letter to answer other comments too. I would also like to note that in the European Union there are proposals to encourage the EU Member States to place further resources on drug modes because such studies have been overcrowded and there are several ways they can better examine the use of these plants and this is something that the European Union is taking for the most part because it wants to increase the option of people in the European Union to choose health care. It has been observed in the matter of question. Councilmen say there is no benefit in the use of drugs. I have noted that both the surgeon general of Britain as well as the former U.S. surgeon general is different. And also, the former surgeon general of Iceland was also in a different opinion, but in the letter of the surgeon general for Skorrdalur, which I referred to, it is too much to be said for the head physician - here is being, by permission of the president, to refer to a exchange between Þórarinn Tyrfingsson, a former medical surgeon for Vogi, SÁ, and Skorrdalur, in which Þórarinn Tyrfingsson said there was no evidence of any benefit in the pharmacological use of drugs. And the surgeon at that time says, with the permission of a president: It is too much said to the surgeon that no attempt has been made with a drug that stimulates cannabistism, although expectations were higher at the beginning of these experiments. There are many other potential benefits to these types of medicines, but this is an exciting field that offers the hope of a beneficial drug in the future. [...] Research that has been observed in recent years on the relationship between cannabis use and major psychiatric disorders with psychotic symptoms may also lead to comments from the dog. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson - both in acute transient psychotic symptoms, but not least in schizophrenia symptoms. Schizophrenia is a serious mental disorder that marks the patient's entire life cycle. The prevalence of schizophrenia is low or about 1% and is clearly stable both between countries and over time. A well - known 2007 overview of Moore and a partner in Lancet suggests that there is an increased risk of schizophrenia when using cannabis. The ids ratio is 1.41 in this study for schizophrenia compared to non-cannabis, with a range of 1,205/1.65, meaning that people have a 40% higher probability compared to people in general for schizophrenia if they have taken cannabis (e.g., near the probability of increasing from 1% to 1.4%) and that the difference is statistically significant. - That's right. There was a greater likelihood of schizophrenia in people who used cannabis in large quantities. On the other hand, despite the general increase in the use of cannabis, the frequency of schizophrenia, as previously stated, is similar to that of cannabis. The Management Board of Britain, a prime expert in the United Kingdom on substance abuse and its dangers - ◯bent in their 2008 report on "likely a weak link between psychotic symptoms including psychotic symptoms. schizophrenia, and cannabis use This has been repeatedly stated that this is a very weak connection and this precise causal relationship has never been established, i.e. it has not been shown that it is just such that those with schizophrenia are more likely to consult cannabis to improve the symptoms of their illness, or that cannabites increase the likelihood of schizophrenia. This causal relationship has not been proved, and in fact, various studies have proved false. Britain is about to allow medication mode because of its availability in children. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson mentioned, epilepsy with certain medications that could identify them as impaired. Among them, Britain's surgeon general has also referred to these qualities. I have to say, I have to say, I'm amazed at what I'm saying. paritaprevir Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir in terms of the harshest disappearance from cannabis. I don't know any better than the fact that the disappearance from alcoholism can cause death, but I haven't heard of it because it means cannabis. I find this statement very difficult to believe, as well as the fact that the dissociation from cannabis use is worse than the kinetic profile of opioids. I find it very difficult to believe, and I look forward to where that claim comes from because I can't get anyone to know how it can happen. Hv. Subjects have repeatedly referred to increased bioavailability leading to increased use. Now, I don't want to confuse too much of the debate over criminal abuse with this particular proposal, but I would like to point out that the use of young people on cannabis is not too low in Europe than in the Netherlands, where access must be regarded as very high. Although the use of cannabis was slightly increased when the bioavailability was higher, it was considerably lower than that of the neighbouring countries of the Netherlands where cannabis are not allowed. I just wanted to get in there. Hv. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir spoke of the proposal as suggesting that we no longer look to the treatment or counsel of doctors or their counsel because I talked about the patient's rights for self - determination. No, I'm just repeating the patient's self - determination rights and their right to choose their own treatment. While doctors have a very guiding value in this regard, all of us are in charge of our own treatments. I also heard a mention of the ◯gateway of theory, i.e. that the use of cannabites leads to more harder substances. In answer to that question, surgeon generals feel that there is a very weak connection, as shown in his letter to Skorrdalur, and that there is a much stronger link. between the first drug taken by people who regularly drink alcohol or tobacco, the relationship between them is much stronger to start using alcohol or tobacco, which can lead to severe drug abuse. Because we should not forget that alcohol is also a drug. Then at the end, I'd like to mention repeated questions from what? A senator in terms of land culture and why it is presented in the Parliamentary decree. First of all, I'd like to report certain environmental issues on that occasion. We don't necessarily have to move this far from here, we can just grow it here. We have an example. To another extent, I would like to say that this is not a suggestion for people to be allowed or allowed to cultivate medication mode at home. Rather, a health minister is entrusted with full authority to determine the procedure for these matters. In the Senate arrangement, a minister is very clearly suggested to consult the nations who have had good experience in drug - eutrophication and find out what such matters are like in their case. I don't think we're going to be able to move in any drug mode. We can completely cultivate it ourselves, but a minister can also decide for himself not to be made in this country. But I would do well to remember that if there's no need to import something, we don't necessarily have to import it. If we can make it ourselves, we'll have an environmental idea to recommend it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u72	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ávardótir speaking. She spoke a little bit. psychotic symptoms and psychosis and schizophrenia and such. She also discussed the importance of researching such subjects a little, and I agree quite well with it. Senator. However, almost all studies of cannabis and cannabis or cannabis-like agents have been reported to have been relatively low in their studies, i.e. where they are directly examined against one another. On the other hand, in their previous article, doctors review many tests of psychosis and schizophrenia. Some of them were medical students at the time of the article, but a Engilbert of Sigurðsson is the one called an anchor writer. The results of this well - chosen study are all one way. And these are not just some scientists, they are not amateurs. They are people who earn their livelihood by reading such articles and studying their values. Here's the question. Senator: Would it not be more reasonable to make a suggestion that was involved in hiding Icelandic authorities, concealing the Ministry just to determine if there were any grounds to look at them rather than to run in the right direction to allow the culture and use of drugs in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u73	Mr. President. Of course, it is always good to be able to refer to such words as that. doctors. I allow myself to refer to the surgeon's letter on this very subject, on this strict link, since he believes that there is a very weak connection and that no direct causal relationship can be demonstrated. I want to point 'em, too. A member of the European Commission, I think it is the right translation of the European Commission, is to make a resolution that requires Member States to increase knowledge and skills among medical or healthcare professionals - I am directly translating from English - in the use of cannabis medicinal products and to allow physicians to use their professional knowledge freely to write on cannabis and medicinal products based on canabis for patients with or in conditions where this might apply. It is also being allowed in Britain and in other parts of the world. I know why. A senator feels that it does not matter in this context, but I still allow it to be taken so that land doctors and governments around the world do not see the tremendous amount of resentment that doctors here have spoken about and that of a former surgeon, in 2009. Then, research has added to the study that reduces the endless claims of bipolar disorder.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u74	Madam President. That might be a lot of trouble. Senator I'm not worried about what's going on abroad. But it's not everything that happens abroad, so I'll be sure to accept it for the community we have in Iceland. It's not like that. The Senator has been told that a surgeon said something about cannabis. So, with the permission of the president, I would like to allow me to give a witness in the subjugation of the governor's review when the last case came before the council: Before you can take an informed position on the use of cannabis for medical purposes, various tests must be carried out as described briefly. In no case can it be said that cannabis is of no greater benefit than harmful effects, and during this medical situation no recommendation can be made. So wrote a spring surgeon's office, and I don't expect their comments to be changed now from what they say. But what I would have thought would be taken into account in it is just what it says, that there would be a number of tests. We are by no means there yet, that cannabis for medical purposes is anything but what I came into before, at best, a symptomatic and symptomatic treatment, with many other medicinal products being useful and known to have much less side effects.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u75	Madam President. That's to say. A senator, that nothing in this council-sounding motion means the highest. Minister to open up such information and such research. However, there is a point that prevents their information from being collected at that exact point and that the materials are completely illegal and that having them on their way can result in at least one thing. having a criminal record, even having worse consequences for the individual. It is also impossible for health care professionals in Iceland to have some sort of technical research on it as long as the legal situation is the way it is. I would simply like to allow me to read up the proposal for Congress that lies before us here to confirm that nothing stands in the way of a thorough investigation. Minister of health that it is necessary for this to happen. In the Senate resolution proposal, it is exactly as it is, with the permission of a president: ▪ The General concluded to hide the Minister of Health to prepare and present the bill as a home for use and production of medicine. During the preparation of the bill, the experience of countries authorised for use of medicinal products should be based on the experience of all the factors to be taken into account in the implementation of laws and regulations for the use and culture of medicinal products such as the import and sale of seeds, production of plants, production and production of medicinal products from plants, prescriptions and distribution of the prepared drug modes and how to ensure simple, safe and predictable regulations that will be used for the benefit of medicinal products. Nothing in the text means the highest. A minister has to decide that some research is needed to prepare for the induction before it can be performed. I want to reiterate it at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u76	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the rights and duties of the citizens of the state, a change that would eliminate the obligation of the EEA Civil Rights when it comes to government work. This case was previously given at the 146th legislature and then the 148th legislature, which was the first traveler to Pawel Bartoszek. That the bill stands this time on the Council Group, which is in harmony with the direction published on the category's website in section on the affairs of immigrants and refugees. It states that people outside the EEA should have a better way to work and live on land. We simply want to fulfill that promise by opening up more of the public labour market so that these also apply to those outside the EEA. The bill isn't really exaggerating far, Madam President, but it's gross. It reads this, with president's permission: ◯4. a number. 1.mg. Section 6. The law will pass away. It's relatively simple. That 6. the law on the rights and responsibilities of the State is first about the general qualifications for job recruitment, which is, first of all, 18 years of age, with some exception for jobs such as cleaning, sending jobs and the like. Then we will discuss the legal requirement, third of which the need for health is needed, and fourth, the case that this bill presents is the case. I'll have to read it, with President's permission: It's a Civil Civil Right. However, citizens from other countries can be hired by the European Economic Area or Member States of the European Free Trade Association or move countries to work on the same terms as Icelandic citizens. This law can also be replaced in other foreign citizens, if specifically indicated. The 5th saying, 6th paragraph. The law discusses the general education and special education required for the job, and in the sixth case, financial guardianship is discussed in the case of a business that involves financial gain. So we suggest that the requirement for the citizenship fall away but that the requirements for age, legislation, health, education, and financial rights remain unchanged. We believe that the current provision of foreigners in Iceland is divided into two groups where one group of foreigners has the same opportunity as did the Icelanders to serve in the state and the other not. It should be noted that the limitation of 4 is also limited to citizens from countries outside the European Economic Area who have received, including non-term visas in Iceland or residence permits which they would be authorized to do the job. According to the carriers of the bill, the rule is simply a rule of a child's time and unduly burdensome, more than ever, a better way of removing it. Iceland differs from the Norwegian states in terms of its directive. Neither Sweden, Denmark, Norway, nor Finland can be found in such provisions any longer. All over the world, jobs with the government are available to those who have the right to work. It's very simple. The nature of the matter is widely required for language skills and other aspects of the procedure and does not interfere with such grammatical conditions in the administration of jobs in the state. This is not suggested to change the 20th requirement. The Constitution says that officials are Icelandic citizens, while officials hear them. Judges and police officers, as is the 22nd grade. the law on the rights and duties of the officers of the state. This law will also be considered in the current constitution. Most countries set such rules when it comes to those who have official authority but are far less likely to have that value on a job, such as. Teachers, doctors, nurses, specialists, or others who work for the State. I believe it is right to review the history of this legislation in Iceland, but the first edition of this article in any form can be found. in a letter to the King's People of April 8, 1844, about the Icelandic skills of those applying for office in Iceland. It states that anyone who receives counsel in the country has knowledge of the language of the country, that he can at least understand the natives, and that they can understand them. Certainly, it was not possible to demand Icelandic citizenship, since Iceland did not become a sovereign state at the time. Such a law, however, came into our constitution and in the laws on the rights and duties of the officials of the State of 1954. It contains regulations that apply to all government officials, not just government officials. It was one of the requirements of an Icelandic citizen whose rights were spoken by the president: However, this law can be taken into account, if it can be considered particularly desirable to get a foreign citizen to carry out his business temporarily, but it can be reserved only after he has found himself in the slang citizen's rights. That was 1954. The EEA Convention then made a complete adjustment of the provision, after which the regulations sounded like this, with the permission of the president: It's a Civil Civil Right. However, Ministers may authorize that citizens of other European economic countries will be hired to operate on the same terms as Icelandic citizens. This law can also be replaced if it can be considered particularly desirable to get a foreign citizen to carry out temporary work. With the EEA Convention, Ministers could authorize EEA citizens to get public employment. Then, in the first law, it was stated that a temporary employee could be hired if it was particularly desirable. Another big step was followed by a new law, which is what it now sounds like. There was no longer a provision for recruiting citizens from countries outside the EEA. In all parts of the North countries, requirements for public employment have been dropped. Such rules do not apply in the Netherlands, not Canada, the United States, Britain, or Ireland. In many places, there are exceptions. Iceland is one example of this. Germany is different and in some places, e.g. In France, Turkey, or Poland, the legal requirement for civil rights is quite clear. It is our estimate that current policies can be effective in preventing the flexibility of the public labour market. Despite the fact that today's project is actually turning to what we wanted the law to be, it could turn back without specific adjustment. We do not want the lawgiver to set rules that could discourage qualified people who would otherwise be applying for government jobs. The government actually goes beyond the company in the private market in this regard. There's a general rule on employment and land permit available, but there's a particular reason the state has to insist on making more strict demands. We don't think that there are any grammatical reasons for such things, and therefore we present this bill, even though, and I want to underscore it, that grammatical factors can be established, such as. about your knowledge of English, etc. The employment market is divided into three, the public, the general and the private market. So are individuals who are independent of themselves, of course, to be even more active. In this respect, the most open market is available. It does not have a special bill for citizenship when a person receives a work permit. It's also about the fact that people have been given employment permits. We believe it is important to ensure that liberal legislation and that it is at least in line with what is known in our neighboring countries, in countries that we all compare with, such as the North, and eliminate this requirement, which in some respects is not much longer being carried out. It's also reality. This condition would bring our legislation to the same outlook as any one known in the North countries, as I have already said. The discontinuation of this condition would also improve our score in various international comparisons. In particular, I would like to mention the MIPX scale, which measures how hostile states are to immigrants. The preparation of this matter examined the significance of this provision at the largest government - controlled workplace in Iceland, the Land Hospital, and the University of Iceland. Since these places seem to employ considerable staff from all over the world, the law does not seem to get much in the way of these institutions, blessed. Then some might use it as evidence that these laws may not have to be changed. On the other hand, during our restoration, we stress that the law is supposed to be a manifestation of what we live in, and we are also supposed to make sure that we live in an open community, a diverse community, and a multicultural society. That's why, a respectable president, I'd like to recommend at the end that the bill goes to the treatment at what time. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. And I hope that the matter will be well established and discussed there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u77	Madam President. I simply want to come up here to celebrate that this bill has been re transferred. I support it wholeheartedly and believe that the entire Congress party of Pirata does the same thing. I agree with what. A traveler, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, that this law is a child of its own time. I also want to reiterate that I believe that the conditions for civil rights as they are now include a certain legal discrimination against people according to their origins, i.e. Nation. Since we have just accepted a work law that exactly forbids such discrimination, it is time to update the law in harmony with it. We, of course, have other obligations, including commitments. under the constitution, to discriminate people on the grounds of ethnicity. It is only natural to meet some form of qualifications to be employed by the government, but they need to be perfunctory and based on the requirements of those to be employed, such as language skills. On the other hand, the insistent requirements based only on nationality are to make clear the requirement for civil rights to be met by all rules and regulations other than those of others. I just wanted to make this right. I think it's very important that we try to update as much as we can to all the legislation that involves some form of discrimination. Sadly, we still have a number of examples of direct legal discrimination against a group of people without objective evidence. These include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 Consider the legal law that I have been discussing during this council, which contains direct discrimination against those with disability, i.e. mental illness. We still have in our ancient laws a law that allows for depravity on one basis that a person suffers from a mental illness. This is also a direct legal discrimination, Mrs. President, and I wanted to use the opportunity to point it out again. I think this bill is an example of legal discrimination that we have to work on. I think we should fine our legislation in Iceland and find all the examples in it of legal discrimination on the basis of nonverbal factors, such as. Patriot, as the story is here. We need to remove such discrimination from the law and find objective reasons for our laws rather than direct discrimination.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u78	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the law on rights and duties of government officials, No. 70/1996. Like what? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came on when it's a very simple, clear bill, it's not very complicated. I want to come up here to declare that I support it. I ran through the reviews received during the previous councils when the case was given, and they're all positive. So I don't really see that we're in a bad way accepting the bill. I would like to use this opportunity, however, to believe that, in fact, the law does not seem to have been the product of a set tradition when government agencies and government officials announce certain jobs that there is a requirement for language skills involving another Norwegian language. This has often shown foreigners that coming to the country, wanting to participate in our society, and being able to work in the administrations requires that they learn to be Icelandic. People of all other territories are required to put their knowledge of Icelandic and also to know Danish, Norwegian, or Swedish, which is unfair in many ways. Although it may be good in some cases that there are employees with skills in Norwegian languages, it does not have to be absolute. That is why I think it is important to look into the official staff policy when it is really necessary to make a demand for skills in Norwegian languages and when it is normal to overlook it, just considering that a more diverse group could apply for the job. I wanted it to come. I support the bill fully, but I must also mention that I have often wondered if it is necessary to have a law code specifically on the rights and duties of the citizens of the state. I have often found it surprising that there is a reason why, on these factors, it is not widely accepted in the other law or in the Labour Code and in the collective agreements. But I know it's a little irrelevant, even though it has to do with these laws exactly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u79	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill for a change in the law on home loans to consumers. This law is no. 118/2016. The bill includes the dropping of loans after forced sale. It's a so-called key bill, Madam President. The movers are made from four panels, and they also stand here at the same time. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Þórarinsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Helgi Ræfun Gunnarsson, Sæland Göturand and Karl Hjaltason und. The bill suggests that the 39th par. the laws that are here proposed for a change in terms, by permission of the president: In the wake of forced sales, the loan's posts are down against consumers. Does the same thing apply to other legal provisions due to deposit of property loans to consumers, such as bankruptcy, forced contracts, remuneration, or similar measures due to consumer insurance problems and resulting in the loss of mortgage contracts in real estate. The bill of this follows a detailed paper that will cause me to break down my legs in several places in my historical history. Remarks headed for the same goal as the bill have been submitted at least Five times before. It is mandatory to assume that this bill is to be formed by means of the household's Aggressive Association. It is based on the same reasoning given to the earlier embryos, but it is somewhat different in its implementation in view of recent legal development. This bill suggests a modest change that can have a great deal to do with the consumers'wages, resulting in loss of their home on an overdue sale. Since this is now required at 38th. the law on home loans to consumers to offer alternative measures before requiring an obligatory sale is likely to be fully tested, making it necessary to consider that the borrower's assessment that a consumer does not predict the potential to live up to the commitments of his home. In such cases, it is always safe to conclude that the terms of payment are automatically met in terms of the demolition of debt beyond the value of real estate. Is it, then, to contribute more efficiently to the solution of such cases that the remaining bets fall to a principle following forced sale of consumer property? The objective of the bill is to contribute to the careful loaning of loans by handing creditors to the possibility of handing over their loans as it is called, i.e. And if any possession be to be committed, and if it be at the edge of the bank, let it go free. The bill is such an important factor in distributing risks in real estate loans and giving domestic loans that there is almost one - side risk at the hand of loan. It should be noted that by means of this bill, there is a type of validation in real estate loans. So it turns out that demanding relationships and debts do not end in the first place where the demands of the worker accepts an adequate payment. In this way the bill assumes that the requirement of a reimbursement agreement on loans, where loans are guaranteed by mortgages in the purchased estate, will be agreed to to accept that the surrender of the owned property into its hands is considered to be the complete payment of half a debt equal to the full fulfillment of the commitment. The saying is that it is not expected to be tested unless in need, i.e. When a debt has been paid and a legal requirement to take full advantage of its rights has become active. A report by the International Advisory Corporation London Economics, 2012, on resources for consumers in financial difficulties, is very much discussed with the top priority value of such factors as this. It shows that comparable resources have long been available in many U.S. states and have been swept away by financial failures in Europe. Is Spain particularly specific in this regard. It is reason to stress the need for legal measures, such as those recommended by the bill of this bill, to show clearly behind the 2008 financial collapse when the crown's gang lost half of its value, with the result that successful loan agreements were completely overbrowed. The grappling effect of the gang's success resulted in a corresponding result to the price - assured loan agreements. The lack of intelligence faced by people caused an unprecedented riot in the community that dragged behind them. It is essential to learn from experience and to implement resources to prevent the recurrence of history. In view of this transporter bill, how much better it would be to strengthen the position of the creditors that real estate loans are in the way the bill demands. In addition to bringing needed resources into the hands of debtors in order to meet unexpected financial problems, the risk distribution of these would encourage loan institutions to lend careful loans. Thus, the bill made it a law, that the interest of a lender and a creditor would be united beyond what is now with the objective that a debtor can live up to the payments of his mortgage, and that the true value of real estate is not much less than the value of his credit agreement. Thus the likelihood of the formation of real estate vaccines would be reduced, in imitation of those who fell in the years prior to collapse. In the long run, changing the environment in this respect led to the poorer credit work of society for the better. The reply of the Minister of Justice to the inquiry of the person here on forced sales and bankruptcy, and to the case numbers given in the report, and to the minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to ask for forced sales and correction - these i.e. are both from a recent council - where it was observed in recent years would have at least 9,195 individual property has been sold under compulsion or due to payment. We're talking a lot of noise in 10,000 homes, Madam President. We're talking at least 30,000 people. We are talking about social influences, so it is reasonable to ask whether there was a terrible natural disaster or war here. We're talking about 10% of the population losing their homes. We are talking about Icelandic parents, fathers, and mothers who were allowed to lead their children to their homes. Madam President. This figure was mentioned high in 10,000, but no doubt more families have lost their homes by other means, with no official numbers available. Nevertheless, and in the light of this experience and in the light of these figures, there have been no defenses in behalf of the households. This bill is intended to add to this material, although there is something else to be done. A brief discussion of the legal implementation proposed here. According to the aforementioned 38th grade. Law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016, lenders are obliged to provide consumers with an opportunity for something such as refinance or loan-changing, which could solve consumer problems before requiring forced sale. Thus, the lawgiver's will is to appoint a forced sale as a means of success in such cases and to make any way impossible, including the way to negotiate. When this is the case, the consumer's financial situation must always be somewhat poor against a loan position, so it is perturbing to provide resources to solve an consumer that is so counter to such burdens as those that have been sought in later times by various laws that are considered to be in the literature. In those cases where everything else has been fully tested before forced sales, it is always safe to conclude that the conditions of payment are automatically met in terms of the depletion of debt beyond the value of real estate. Therefore, in such cases, there is a tendency to greatly increase the effectiveness of solution measures to adopt the principle that the resulting debt due to mortgages will fall in the wake of an forced sale on consumer property. So, Madam President, I suggest that the bill go to what? The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u80	A respectable president. We're talking about a post-requisite bill, or a key bill so called, where people who experienced the collapse could have, if this bill had become law, returned the keys, and escaped from the humiliation that followed, as it were. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isphemus, but 10,000 people did enter into this thing. I'd like to thank you for your transfer, sir. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, for this bill. A group of people, along with me, stand shoulder to shoulder. The members of Sæland Gaand and Karl Hjaltason Hojaltason. There's also the bill why. Councilmen of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Halldóra Mogensen, and Helgi Gunnarsson. As noted, this bill has been submitted five times. It's kind of incomprehensible and strange that it's not approved in the first hours. We know that after the collapse, there was a very strange incident. I have seen bad things happening there, but in particular, I remember what happened with the Bank of Savings, which ended in Therama, which even ended in the Secret Bank museum. The treatment of people in that collection is unforgivable. The people were driven from their homes, not enough, but only in debt. A large group of people fled abroad, and they don't even have a chance to come back because they await the debt of absurdity, where people are basically in debt for buying an apartment, for all they had to do with their apartment, but in one night, people became heavily deserved, just because of collapse, because of changes in the system, which claims to them, they were not to teach in any way. But there was something else in this that was even more ugly and even more bizarre. Some of these people were young people who were buying their first apartment, and they were assigned to write with parents and relatives. What happened? Those with family members and their relatives were also followed up, driven out of their homes, and told to pay for everything to the top. We must realize that in that foul game, 10,000 homes were under the land. If we were to wander along, as it were in the middle of nowhere. Ísleifsson In that case, in the case of the lives of some 30,000 children who were driven from their parents and their families, we are talking about at least 10,000 children who were driven from their homes and who had no chance of saving themselves, who were driven into the market, trapped today in rent markets, those who did not escape the country, with debt and behind them in debt. Remuneration was required, but there were strict conditions for getting in there, and when people entered there for three years in prisons. There, people did not have a knife and spoon if they were to escape through that process. Happily, in some cases, people escaped, but in most cases the total unfairness of the collection was complete. All advice was employed, and as I said, the most amazing collection company arose. What was really the worst part about it is that banks, savings, and others did not play games. They lent money without checking. They did not fill out a legal form that was supposed to be there for loans, which, of course, had become illegal loans at the time of a collapse, but it did not stop them from trying to get a hook on the person. They were able to recover from many people who did not know about their situation that they could refuse to pay. Was there someone who enlightened it? Was there someone who helped? Was the State helping? No. The government was inside of this through the Secret Bank. It was all underneath. They went over ordinary people who were only buying homes, nothing on the market, nothing to try to raise their money on the market where there are certain risks. No, these people did not take any risks, they were buying homes for themselves and their families, but nothing was left to them. They were totally making sure that these people didn't have a chance to survive. As mentioned earlier, there were children in the back. All I believe is that we learn from experience and make sure a bill like this is approved because we don't know if these things can happen again. I'm just saying, God help us if we don't know what to do so that if such things happen again, people have a chance. We know that prices today are everywhere. Young people are commitmenting to 40, 50, 60, 70 million. If things go wrong, all the property of people is quick to disappear. Therefore, we have to have a bill that allows people to return their keys, walk out, start over, start out again, don't be hunted abroad, and here at home by vulture tax collectors who are willing to make all the money, and don't matter whether they're children or some other people in their path. No matter what it takes, let the interiors pass. I hope so much and fervently that this bill will receive the treatment that it truly deserves and becomes a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u81	V.E.G. President. First thing I'd like to do is thank you for your first transporter, okay? paritaprevir Oleaf, Ólafur of Ísleifsson, very much for this bill. As noted in his case, similar primes have been submitted before. What I think is the most important thing about the bill is its objective, by permission of a president: ▪ The center of the bill is to promote careful loans by bringing debts into the hands of mortgage loans. That's very useful in the case of a merchant earlier, and I thank him very much for that. The bill presented here is presented in line with the changes that have been made in the community. This bill is designed to strengthen the status of a debtor. To face the unforeseen situation, the creditors must make sure that they have this means. This also means that loan institutions will be done to improve the quality of their loans. I wanted to come up here and point it out and thank you very much for the fact that this bill has been released.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u82	Madam President. Here's a bill for changing consumer mortgage law. The transporters of the bill are a total of nine; the entire group of Stockholm's people, as well as one of the Independence Party members, two members of the Central Party, and two Pirata members. The bill is called a key bill. An authority observed that such a bill has happened to the council at least Five times before getting even. Changing according to this bill means that if the demands of property are not fully met, the demand holder cannot borrow other property. It's as simple as that. The loan's posts fall to the borrower. The bill also assumes that if the debt of such mortgages is made in other ways, such as on the grounds of forced agreements, payment, bankruptcy, or other comparable measures attributable to the consumer's payment problems, resulting in the loss of real estate insurance, the end of the requirement will be the same. It assumes that conditions can arise so that a creditor can thus give the borrower the pledged property, i.e. that the requirement will fall, or according to the events of her postmortems. The basis for this is that the borrower who accepts a pledge for his demand is involved in the risk. He agrees with the weather as a complete insurance policy for his demand. The bill thus contributes to responsible loaning so that if a loan gets into financial problems that will lead to loss of his property, the borrower will only walk to the mortgage and then not tell the story anymore. He is more involved in the risk of credit agreements. The principle is undisputed and should not be taken into account in agreements. As it has been so far, a borrower may chase down the borrower after the bet is taken on an exorbitant sale and keep the loan responsort on, as it is called, and wait quietly for financial success to become possible. That's how it's been used so far. Of course, the most reasonable thing is that the lender is thus placed in a more responsible position in his contract with borrowers and appreciates the long - term risks of failing the loan both in the beginning of the contract and in the future. This bill is a benefit to the borrowers. That is fair and would have been more valid here when the greatest storm broke out in the years following a crash, with a great decline in the crew of the Crown, resulting in the failure of successful loan agreements to many debtors. As a result, we know. This has been revealed by the minister's response to question. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izekis, the first of this matter, was that 9,195 people's property was sold an exodus or due to payment during the years following the crash, as well as those who lost their homes in a different way, as it were. A senator mentioned earlier. If there are three people in each family, there are at least 45,000 who suffered the loss of their homes after that disaster. Madam President. This bill is presented to try to balance the interest rate of loaners and creditors, even if only a little. As we know, the position of creditors is in every way stronger. His status is protected by the loaded wall of the justice system, which protects not only the debt but also the unpredictable financial value for the long future, which is added to the insurance policy. It's time to end this up, Madam President. The right to borrow, although only part of the responsibility of the loan agreements, is up to the lenders. The need to validate the regulations of the bill and set the defense if anything like what happened here in the years after the collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u83	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016, followed by forced sales. I come up here to celebrate the bill. For some reason, I've been killed because of being with an importer. I thought I said yes to that request. But all right, I hereby declare to the pontta that I am very attached to this bill. As mentioned in the talks, this bill has actually been delivered virtually unchanged, or very similar, five times earlier. I want to thank you. An evangelizer, Ólafur Ísleifsson, for presenting it. In the past, we have reasoned that this bill is essential in the light of history. We remember what happened when the economic collapse hit us; inflation went out of control, expedited loans multiplied, and people were in great trouble and lost their home. As noted in the transport speeches earlier, 10% of the population lost their home and was followed by demand after losing their homes. This has happened in the past with economic fluctuations, but somehow over the years it was not possible to deal with them, even though these bills had been submitted repeatedly. So I think it's very important now that we move on and get to accept it, let's get through the council to stop this. As shown in the bill, this also helps loan agencies to improve the development of loan agreements. A loan deal is far too much for a debtor to be mortgaged for himself and for all that he does for himself. Even if everything has been offered off him, he's been followed. That's what's been called after you get fixed. This bill, if it were to be a law, would help loan institutions to improve the handling of loan agreements so that the risks would really be both parties. People would become more afraid of going to real estate, considering that they could be trusted on either side. I'm not gonna extend my case. It's sort of been mentioned in some of the above talks that I would have wanted to say about the subject. This is a big issue for the public and for the financial system because it helps loan agencies to improve their skills and to rethink loan agreements, as many have shown. I wish, like other speakers before me, that this case will have positive and good payment through the council and become a law. Then I believe we have a better future in these matters, because it is naturally one of the biggest investments most people have in life, to buy housing. This calls for a quality of care. To say that, I'm going to say thank you so that this bill will become the law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-14-31.u84	Madam President. I thank all those guys. I am very grateful to them for the important discussion they have discussed. I believe that discussion will be the best thing to do. A Senate committee when she reviews the case. Madam President. This case is not unforeseeable. The defenses of their homes in terms of the superpowers they possess against financial institutions have not been provided sufficiently. This case is just a stone for that load. We live in a system where we have a completely different arrangement but where it is based on fundamental factors in the lives of ordinary people, i.e. In what way does a house - to - house arrangement continue to be financed so that people have a roof over their heads. We are stuck and taped in a system that was set up as an emergency in a completely different society today. Business was very different. Money markets do not exist in the form we know them today. For example, there was no stock market here. A bond market was just beginning to break children's robes. It was then a challenge to try to apply some engineering solution to economic problems, which may include: was rooted in the fact that this came, not in here, but in the international, two - price explosions during the '70's. The majority of the people were not then born. Despite repeated efforts, especially by the classes that have been represented in the discussions today, i.e. The people's team and the Central Party, we can't pull ourselves out of this because the routine is such and maybe the strong forces under which, of great interest, are maintained. History in these matters is dissociative. The consequences of the collapse are still taking place in a variety of ways. And it is natural that every development was made up of remarkable details. This is where it was already in early 2008, it was at least I realized about Easter so much I trusted to claim that under the crown there was no solid ground, and she could just go as far south as any man could imagine. It is known that when a dollar falls into value, it follows, of course, rising prices. The widespread means of borrowing in foreign coins, half a dollar's price tag, led to a natural double on the head chair, and in three months, or whatever the loans were, it turned into the prices of the standard so that the headstones of the loans went the same way that the people faced an entirely uncontrollable position. It was like trying to climb the 30 - year - old hammer to cope. We have considered, as far as I know, that individuals no longer have the right to borrow foreign coins for reasons of caution to protect people from the risk of borrowing and building obligations on coins other than those they earn. But let's see, Madam President. Valuable loans are not the same as loans in foreign currency in this regard. You don't make money on a dollar you don't trust. They make money in the rolls of their names. The value of money is as far away from the dollar as any foreign currency. It's just the way she's supposed to be. She's not a dollar, she's just some index. And they notice, what is it? She's that index. What is it? Yes, the Haguems and the families are taking home Bible studies. It's all very scientific and fantastic, and careful work ethic. And international standards of honor. But what happens next? Inside that index is the housing team. He does not change as does a general price in the country. He is a specialist, and he has grown natural, as everyone knows, and many have been mentioned in this discourse in the recent years, even depending on. by the way the situation is being carried out, which again depends largely on the construction projector and various organizational factors, building regulations, and all possible. The price for such housing has nothing to do with inflation. When insurance was initiated, the idea of improving the borrower's price reduction was not to change organizational factors or products or some expertise in mayor or rural governments. I allow myself to use this opportunity, Madam President, to call attention to a bill that I have recommended and that I have received a great deal of good action to the same extent. Senators and I'm on this bill, I thank them for the one more trip, but that bill is about changing the terms of growth and insurance, including what I would allow me to call a haunt, after the manner of a renowned general, to be insurance policy from all four ends. And to put the bill together, because it's now late, that's how it is. The housekeeping team out, the indirect taxes out, poisoned the cocktail, and the okas out. It's the bill. That's what we're gonna do when we're in trouble. A Senate committee will be very interesting to observe. The symptoms we live in and present are endeavoring to respond by promoting loans in such trade, is because it has been considered normal and is mostly unuttered, except on the part of some experts, that the risks are as indiscriminate in credit agreements as they do in real life. There's no such thing. It's only one person who carries all the risks of changing prices. The other party is in no danger of changing prices. None. Where do you recognize it? And one who carries no risk of change is fortified to the back and to the fact that, as they say, only a portion of the property is usually lent to a degree of value. The experience of the collapse is, as noted in the case of various whales. Senators who covered the matter, naturally so terrible that the words can hardly be reached, are like a bunch of hand jackets or ontined handcoats that went at night to possess, as it is called, shepherds cars outside their homes, and things like that. And then this handshake, Mrs. President, which I allow to call, i.e. Keeping people in straitjackets, as was done in the case of some whales. Councilmen in whom it is still in. And part of that straitjacket is that it's on some black art here, and it's not even counted in houses that are fit, so all the rocks are banned. They can't get into a rented market, they can't borrow money to buy, but we don't do anything to them. These people are forgotten, but they will be forgotten no more if we are allowed to have more influence here that has used us in these areas. In fact, it is not unusual, Madam President, this situation in which people are almost all saved because they had earned a loan to finance apartment housing for the family, that after having suffered the enormous loss of their worth and inflation, they should be treated like some criminal. There is no saving, and there is no hope, except for 30 thousand people living abroad. We have 30,000 Icelanders in foreign lands. What do we have to offer them, people who can borrow in lands where they live normally and have accommodations? What do we have to offer them? Nothing, except for your insurance policy. What do you think a lot of people are after living in Iceland because this is insurance? Let us not forget, Madam President, that under the elegant surface of many people, there are many people. And let us discuss this at some point. Let us consider some ways in which it would be right, reasonable, and reasonable to meet them because the stage is there. I wonder, " Could it be that some elements in the community that are currently very difficult to deal with are rooted in the pressures of family and home life? ' I think it would be worth one Mass to investigate it. Madam President. Thank you so much. Parliaments for their important contribution in these discussions and the practical suggestions that all of whom had to offer. I reiterate that I expect the case to be handled objectively and thoroughly at the Senate Committee, and it will be very interesting to see the response. But when it comes to speaking in this legal group, you have at times wished that the audience was a little larger; this, of course, is a choice, a small but good, as they say. [[Take it up to us: A few, yet good.]] But let's see. Here's a case I think deserves a good career at the Generals' scene.
