ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u1	Borist has received a letter from a social and equal minister asking for an invitation every time to give a written answer to a covering query. 100, for advice and for temporary or limited work, from Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougson. A letter has also been received from a health minister asking for every request to give a written application for this request. 167, for the funding of the SÁ and treatment outside the capital area, from the Albertína Frinífjörður, the daughter of Elíasdóttir. Finally, a letter from a foreign minister asking for every request was received in order to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 64, of the EU energy package, Community monitoring agencies and the EEA Convention, from Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u2	To answer, financial and economic ministers, health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, foreign ministers and district ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u3	Mr. President. The Panama documents showed that the Icelanders had a worldwide record of using their tax cover. This revelation brought shame upon the entire nation, for tax appeals were used primarily to hide property and avoid tax pay. On October 9, the news fair reminded us that money poured out tax free from the Icelandic economy before collapse. Among the owners of your country are those who received large sums of money after the fall of banks, the fall of 2008. It has also been observed that banks have been saved by requirements for the swelling. Large sums of money have come to the country through the investment route of the Federal Bank, where owners receive considerable profits. Only public study can eliminate the secrecy of that route. So I'd like to ask if it's the highest. The financial and economic ministers do not consider it time to compare these groups, those who received large sums of money written from banks, the bank's reserve requirements, the bank's swelling farms, and share in the slave's investment plan. If you did, you would find answers to the question, Is there anyone here? It seems that in some cases property institutions have been reimbursed to cover them. The loan was then transferred to a leftover country without any trade, even trying to cover the trail by means of complex transfers. It is possible to trace this trade through a public investigation, and the Panamas are helping with it. It's the highest. Don't you agree with me that this matter must be informed and that if a tax investigator is allowed to investigate these matters quickly and carefully? Must we not be sure that the Society's way of investment has not been abused by ill - used funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u4	A respectable president. All relevant evidence that the law is broken should be handled by surveillance agencies. That is true with the head of the tax and other offices in the country as well, the Secret Bank. If you have reason to believe that the law is broken, that you have a problem with money, you have a clear guide for such a case in the Icelandic justice system. But I didn't think so. A senator goes a little from one to another. Hv. A senator at his time agreed, including that in this country there would be rules that made it legal to have money in foreign areas. It is impossible to place such legislation here in this room and, on the other hand, an explanation of all those who obey that law. It just doesn't work. That is not the state of justice. The other thing is that we've agreed in this hall to go after all the information that went wrong with the law. We've provided special funds to do that. In summer, a few weeks ago, I answered why. A senator on the matter. In answer it was found that at this point it is estimated that as many as 15 billion of tax stocks may have been retained and not given up to the level of capital gains, which are then 20% of the relevant tax stock. They are in the process of normal living. Other matters, such as those of a boy. A senator refers to, and I don't know, and I don't have one on my level especially, should have a straight course in our court order.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u5	Mr. President. V.E.G. A financial and economic minister here mentioned the answers to my questions that took him five months to answer. These were questions that were not complicated and probably the answers were on the table. Why did it take so long for the highest. Minister to answer those questions? That's right, like the highest. To this end, a minister said in response to the lack of success, which was the exception of a total of about 15 billion dollars of tax stocks. In addition, unfinished Panama cases were referred to a tax investigator from the governor of the taxpayer, 187 of these cases, on trial of about a year. Is it not obvious that an tax investigator will not be able to do both, complete a study on Panama documents, and an investigation of the address of money through the Secret Bank or the currency output? It's under the roof. Ministers it acceptable? In response to the highest possible response. A minister to my questions was stated that a tax investigator could not get over all the issues he wanted to get over and that he needed more money and more men to do that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u6	A respectable president. Like what? A senator knows that agencies are appointed to respond to inquiries at the council. That is how we have done so. We've run after institutions when answers are drawn. But it's come out, and I think it's the main thing now. Regarding the Seambuster investment route, it is the way we decided to open the door at the time. We called for money to come into the country. In case of a moment. A senator is asking me if I think it's right to look at a case, if there's any evidence that it's been on the road of men who have been badly treated that it hasn't been listed, I think it's perfectly obvious that it should be considered. I don't think any Icelandic organisations are going into trouble with that. Is it to be a tax investigator under some special authority? Well, I'd like to hear from the head of the IRS that financial resources were lacking in order to handle these matters. But I'm not running after some kind of news. I trust the officials and the system, the law and the rules, the people who are on the scene doing these things all day long, the Secret Bank, the Department of Justice, the head of the IRS, the federal taxpayers, the institutions I trust every day to obey the law and we here to change their environment. [[The president calls.]] I have no reason to believe that they will do their job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u7	Mr. President. The government of President Donald Trumps has now considered narrowing the definition of sex between individuals. The reassignment is that America can only define itself as a male or a female, in line with biological sex at birth. This scheme will follow some other actions of the Trump administration aimed at permanaging the rights of the transmisers. They have caused a strong response, especially among the people of the United States, and among the politicians who have fought for its rights. However, there is good reason for this plan to produce a strong response elsewhere, because it appeals in such an insignificant way to the way it is, in contrast to the many - known stress, usually turns up to the extortation and perimeters of sensitive groups, such as the policy seems to be, and especially because it is an old story and a new one such as this, isolated and walking on the right edge groups that are fighting for their existence and being able to enjoy human rights to others, but more often, not worse. Respect for human rights is one of Iceland's basic foreign policy and the Icelandic government advocates human rights in the field of national institutions and with individual countries. The best of us. The minister of foreign affairs has reported on important matters, but it will not be taken away that he has been a zealous spokesman for human rights, even though I would like to use this opportunity to encourage him to further works. It's certainly an opportunity to put the rights of transatlant into the international lawsuit. It is also significant that there are careful estimates of transvestite people in the United States at 1.5 million. This is the five-fold Icelandic people. Men have spoken up for less reason. I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs whether he is concerned about this development with our friends in the West and how the government's response will be, whether we will not use the voice we have - a voice so far stronger and more effective than our nation's size or might suggest - to speak of our basic human rights, of freedom of choice, and of war against legal and social injustice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I don't remember the case as a night. A senator refers to the matter that we disagree with in foreign affairs, but it may come. In this important issue, the policy of the government of this class, both transnational and queer people, is very clear, and it has been followed internationally. Like what? A senator refers to human rights as one of Iceland's top stakes in the Human Rights Council. Likewise, we, for example, are members of the Earth Rights Coalition, the European Union of 40 countries who are struggling to enjoy human rights worldwide. Sadly, though, the human rights of a transmise are lacking in many ways, in order to put it down, not only in terms of attitudes and legislation. Sadly, we do not have to look very far to see it. Change them for a while. A senator refers to changes considered by the U.S. government to introduce the position of transmisers to return if necessary. It exists to define gender as an unchangeable rate which is a big change from which both public plans and procedures within the educational and health systems in that country depend. The United States has been among international leaders in this regard. In two contexts, we have always adopted the position of human rights, and there will be no change to either the United States or anyone else. We're lucky that the public and the politicians' attitude toward gay people has changed rapidly in Iceland. Today's attitude is generally positive, and Iceland is at the top of the list of countries that celebrate diversity. We should remember, though, that there is a lack of legislation here, which is improving, a bill of strange independence is on the Constitution. Today, there is still talk of sexual problems in legislation defined as mental illness, but I expect only the General will grant the benefits we make here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and the responses. If I get it right, this is something he's going to record, especially if the case goes further. We'll make ours hear at this scene, which is very important. That's a fact, like the highest. A minister makes it clear that we are for many examples in affairs involving sexual equality that have gone by surprise. Our efforts are looked forward to there, and our voice is strong. It is a situation that is of utmost importance to us. That's why it's very important that we take this further. I welcome the highest. A minister comes on, which is the fact that we have not introduced these legal rights here. It's certainly a Senate book. In fact, it has been on the government list for quite some time. I would count, and hope that the minister would agree with me in that, without me painting the devil on the wall, that this is a firm reminder; a reminder that soon the weather will rise. I think most of us here would agree that not so many years ago, most of us would not have believed that this was happening, these things, these things that were going on in the west and the other side of us too, like the highest. Minister's coming in. [[The president calls.]] How vital it is that we represent the shields, guarantee legal rights in our country, cultivate our garden before pointing out the uncivil in others'garden, but at the same time listen! [[The president calls.]] I trust a minister will speak, and his voice will be heard in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u10	A respectable president. I can agree with most of the things that happened by then. However, when you begin to examine the situation in countries around you, you may be moved only. I'm not going to count them all out, but I've only been doing that in this category and in various other matters, which we prefer to be self-employed in Iceland. But like a dog. A senator referred to; to maintain credibility must be in harmony with words and actions. That's why it's important that we finish the bills we have here. Similarly, we need to be consistent in our actions in foreign fields and language. You're right next door. A senator that our voice is much stronger than the size indicates that we maintain the credibility that we have been able to build. It's a very special goal. I will continue to speak for international human rights, as I have. It's, like, cot. A senator rightly referred to, one of the cornerstones of our foreign policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u11	V.E.G. President. A transport program that we discussed the other day is expected to be completed in 2021. Is that good? But The Dove of the Earth will continue with the old soil roads, and the project will not begin until 223. I heard the discussion on the day of the travel minister talking about the need to seek out all the ways to speed up the preparations of the projects that have not been fully started yet. So I would like to ask the minister if he has started that job and if you can say any further when and when it will be completed. Although construction in the Gufldal forces is on a transport program and will soon attack them, the ball is at present at the Smokehrepps County Center. It is not good to predict the future. In the light of history, you are likely to be optimistic about when they start. Therefore, I would like to direct a question to the secretary of transportation regarding the old route through the Gufu Valley, whether it will be increased, whether it will be winter service, and so on. Similarly, last year the minister asked me about the growth of travel or perhaps new battles across the British farm. I'm going to do better in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that he did so when it came to completing the 2021 Animal Way. As I answered some time ago in a discussion about transportation plans, it would have been nice if at that time men had had a long - range vision enough to have the road done, when these tunnels were prepared, had all the roads involved in the tunnel, i.e. Both the Duchess and Bilddal Road, together in the same thought. Of course, the fact is that these roads are now environmental evaluations, and they are still designing, instead of the fact that all of this would have been the case when the tunnel was sent out. However, I think it was a political decision here at a council, very understandable, to send a message that it was time for the next tunnel. Regarding the discussion that took place during the day, the Commission has now submitted this strategy to the council, and I have declared it to the Environment and Transport Committee and have directed it to the positive recommendations to the Committee that it was reasonable for me to consider whether there was anything to speed it up. However, in 2020, 300 million are going to take a single bridge south of Daringindi, which is very poor, and is probably put in stocks and then can be used immediately thereafter. Since the year 2022, funds will also be placed in Dohningh, which will be 2023. Of course, it would be ideal if something earlier could be done. As for Steam Valley and Service, I'll come to that in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u13	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for this answer, and it's obvious that there is no new news from the other day, about the Darings, so we expect to work fast and well in that case. Back to Bresar Begga. She sails between Stinky Creek and Stykisholm, and has increased recently for two trips, twice a week, to meet heavy transport from the West, to ease the roads and to ease transportation. This boat is an old ship. It hasn't been too good. He's got one machine that broke down last year and was stopped for the third month. A passenger's equipment is much worse than the first ship. And because I mentioned earlier that I had asked the minister about that last year, I'd like to ask the minister again, "Have he had a conversation with the ship's output? Or have you considered a way of buying a bigger and more powerful ferry? Now it's a highway that the government has to do with being good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u14	A respectable president. Regarding the journey through the Gufudal Army, there have been many benefits to be considered. The ball lies with a new department administration in that community, choosing its conclusions and releasing a work permit. The funds are smart, and the design is smart, so that in a very short time, it could be done. In the meantime, people have been looking to improve their ministry because it is necessary to make sure that they are able to do so. One factor that has been considered is to increase the number of trips on the ferry, such as the tail. A senator came in to meet the need that is truly needed and fortunately. We're about to finish one ferry, General, a very large ferry. There's a lot of money around it. We have set the target for transport, for all new processes to be electricityed or powered by environmental energy sources. We have also been looking only at the rice transporter on their own initiatives that would be involved. I haven't had a conversation with the British Biodiversity shuttle on this case, but I'm certainly ready to do so. [[The president calls.]] But we have to sort it in so we have the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u15	A respectable president. Prior to the 2016 General election, the secretary of finance had a report on Iceland's property in an area of the country. In other words, Icelanders had a lot to do with taxes. This report was not published until the election, although it was evident that the report was relevant to the public before elections. Obviously, all who wish to draw neutral conclusions in this matter and clearly by the approval of the Generalist, there is no disagreement that the information presented in the report would protect the public and the extent of the activity described there and the rules involved. As a result, I ask a minister when an assessment of whether the material of the report was in charge of public interest, which should be published according to the Minister's Code. An answer came on March 28, 2018, with president's permission: A report on the property of the Icelanders in a foreign land was carried out by the initiative of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, finance and economic ministers. So its release was completely unmistakably without exogenous notes or assessments of whether they were relevant according to ethical standards. In other words, it is obvious that there was no formal assessment of whether the material in this report was a public interest. During a television interview, a reporter, with permission of a president, asked: Did the report not have an important purpose in the debate of the election? There is the secretary of finance, by permission of the president: We're not necessarily supposed to make a case like this at all times in an election concordance. Well, the premium of the instant election in 2016 was a public display of Iceland's property in taxes. My question to the minister is simple, no matter what the situation here is. How serious is it when a minister conceals public information on the motives of elections before elections? Won't it be just more serious to hide the General and the public information from an election concoction?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u16	A respectable president. We've had this conversation before, we've talked about it. Senator. In itself, I do not have much to say to my previous answers to add in this regard. I second again that the beginning of this report is on my desk at the Ministry of finance. Here was a discussion in the spring months of 2016 and in connection with a announced election, to which the government at the time called, on the scope of these issues. If we now consider the contents of this report, and then the reply that the Ministry of Economic and Economics handed over to the council in summer on the scope of the documents and given the basis for a resurgence, we are far from the ravishing and fortunes that fell in the spring discussion. Even so, large numbers, still enormously serious, and I have previously said here in the Senate and in public that we had returned the report before. It was a mistake not to do so sooner. However, I think it would take a lot to think about what was found in the report compared with what was being held up during the discussion. Then I think it's very easy to find out that the report contained material that showed how far it was, far from what those who took the deepest part of the year remained in this chamber. It was up to the thrill of elections, so I'm not the cognizant. A senator is repeatedly trying to draw out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u17	A respectable president. It is indeed a financial minister who speaks of stoning, and I urge him to bring in more accurately the details of what he points to in order to be handled objectively instead of merely to refer to some detriment. At least I'd like a more specific description. But in other respects, I wholeheartedly agree. We have many examples of the European Court of Human Rights that limitation of expression, including freedom of information, must be considered necessary in a democratic society. It is also very clear from the judges of the European Court of Human Rights that the limitation of the information freedom to the issue of elections requires a great deal of justification. To limit information in the leading of elections, as the election is approaching, is obviously very irrefutable reasons. In view of these views and what a minister said before and on the basis of Article 10. law on the European Convention of Human Rights, would a minister, in view of his acceptance of his mistakes earlier, if he had an opportunity again, publish the election report?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u18	A respectable president. This question is, would we have done things differently if we lived through the past, if we had to live again, etc. I'm not gonna answer these questions. These things, if they had any questions, are really completely meaningless. What I've said is that it was a mistake not to get the report into the discussion before. I personally believe that there was nothing materially in this report that would have revealed the election. That's just my opinion, I'm sure others would feel differently. I think at least after the campaign announcement, after all the talk that had been done here at the Senate Hall, in the community, on the TV, on the interview show, after the head of Pirata was in the TV hall the day before the election with his Panama card - after all this, I think it's extremely difficult to say it, which I find, I think. A senator is trying to make the election totally different, and the Piratars would have managed to get better from them if only the report had been published. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u19	A respectable president. I'm sending a request to the highest level. Transport and rural Minister on access to disableds to group transport vehicles. It took a very long time to get the answer. The answer came. That was very strange and very demeaning because the responsibility of group vehicles to meet the requirements of law and regulations is placed on a disabled person. It is enough for a disabled person or the motor rage to try to get to his destination, let alone trying to climb a bus that has no equipment to accept wheelchairs. It is ridiculous that people are discriminated against by whether they are disabled or not, and they should just take a chance, according to the minister's response, to be there and if they don't get along with them to sue. Whether the bus company or a bus ride is usually in a position for the disabled or not is up to the question. Of course, this is ridiculous because by law and by law the automobiles should be equipped with such equipment. These equipment should be available for the person so that he can get on a wheelchair. They just say, "No, it's only about to be reported to the Traffic Room. " I say, Shouldn't a traffic station make sure that vehicles are prepared so that everyone can board, whether they are disabled or arrested?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I think we both agree that, of course, people are not to be discriminated against, whether in passenger transport by bus or in any other setting in Iceland. The work is being done, both in the legislation and in the work of the Rapporteurs. Regarding group transport vehicles, it has been since the law went into effect that new vehicles are to be equipped with these equipment, but it has not been required for older vehicles. When this is the answer to ask why. A senator was arranged for a walking agency to supervise this procedure. According to their records, this was not a problem. True, they have required that all new automobiles be made this way, but they have not received information from users that this is a broken pot. I've had a meeting with the self-preservation leaders on this very issue, where I was told that they would receive the complaints. I've asked them to get their complaints all the way to the Grouproom so that they can handle things when they come up. Of course, that's not the way it should be. I agree with that. A senator says that when the equipment is available, he will have to risk it. But it is true that only the new vehicles that have been required but not required that the older vehicles be prepared in this way as far as I know and understand. It is very important that this improvement from the past, but the information needs to be accessed to the authorities so they can oppose individual authorities. It is known that some of the smaller members do it very well, around the country, but some of the bigger people have, according to what I've been getting information about, recently did not do it the way we did, either me or the other. Senator, can be content. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Of course, it is always difficult to deal with older cars, but nothing is impossible. I say for my part that if a person in a wheelchair or a disabled person wants to fly, he must order a car 24 hours earlier, he must state what kind of chair he is with, and then there's another thing in this situation, that's to get the right vehicle. The other is going to the place where we have a place to get on board. It can be very different and very difficult to get on these vehicles, though the situation may be because the clouds or locations in which you are to board are not suitable. I say for my part that this is a terrible situation, and we're supposed to make sure that there's a minimum need for new buses between Cheflavík and Reykjavík and the largest places in the world, so there's no doubt that all perfect equipment is on board.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u22	A respectable president. It was all right. A senator entered the air bus or flight. The information I have is that once people get to the airport, the service is quite good, if you've reported it, and everything is prepared and arranged in such a way that it's acceptable. The problem may be getting there. In this area, there is another factor we could view as a solution, i.e. Tourism of a disabled community member. But she's off the country line. But people now travel a little over a rural line. It would seem that the community's disabled tourism made some agreement to cover a larger area. In this case, Leifs Erik's Air Station would certainly be enough to allow this service to be acceptable and first - rated. I think there is one way we should look at the answer to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u23	A respectable president. It is not surprising, however, that the conclusion presented in a recent survey of travel practices designed for the roadmaking is being made through the capital area. It reveals that the average period of travel between home and work has gradually gone into progress for the past decade. In 2007, he was nine and a half minutes old and had reached over 14 minutes in the summer of 2018. Now it has become so that 79% of the trip during the summer of 2018, people went as a driver of their own car. In other words, far too many trips in the capital area have gone in private cars. The responders in the capital area spend over 40 minutes in a car on an active day in winter. It is rather shorter in the summer of 2018 than the average of 41 minutes, as in winter. No matter what we may feel about that fact, it is clear that there are simply too many cars on the road to the capital area. Think of other options we might make with the car that is directly involved in asking the highest. Minister in. In contrast, cities of the same magnitude as the capital area, we see larger and more rapid transport devices to transport more people. This is where we've called it a city line. We recall it in a government covenant, and we have spoken for this purpose. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to where the agreement is taking place between parties, whether we may be expecting a decision about the city line soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this interesting inquiry in connection with news today. In fact, I experienced that this prolongation of time is much more than 9.5 minutes to 14, that is perhaps because you always experience it when you get into the traffic knot and may be ten minutes away from the rest of the days. But this is bad evolution. It's just that we got off a horse and straight into a car and jumped across a train, for example, or something like that. We've built on the private car. It also shows that people in the outer parts of the city are still looking a little bit more at building on footways and making other factors that might help shorten the time, make traffic more efficient and safer than at the same time less pollution. I think it's a top priority today, less climate change, carbon dioxide and particulates and better light control, traffic flow and construction, all of that will bring it back. The key point is that the same procedure needs to be done by building a public transport system. That system must be much more acceptable than it is today, so that more people want to take advantage of it. And it is certainly true that more people have made good use of cycle paths and other variety of trips to get around. One thing that has also been pointed out is that we should not have all the work of the public down here in the city and at the same time the big corporations, so that everyone is on the same route, but should spread more throughout the capital area, even the whole country. So there are many things to consider. Now I see that time is over, Mr. President, so I have to use the second minutes to do exactly the work, because it is very important on the basis of the declaration of will that I made with my community's organization in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] I'll use the second minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u25	The president allows to shoot into this discussion that according to reports, horses are again being used in Copenhagen. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u26	A respectable president. I will not spend my time discussing horse language here despite the interest of a respectable president in them. But it's nice to hear that. A minister intends to do more research on the workforce when it comes to the city line. It would be nice to get answers to whether someone is working on it in some way, that there is a time to start. Is the project being broken up in some way? Can we begin to imagine when some projects related to the city line will begin? And as for financing. The Declaration speaks of the willingness to restore a new financial agreement. We have a test project until we're ten. Won't that hold? Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson came into the affairs of disabled people when it comes to transportation and public transportation. We'll see that, for example. A city line with high - quality particles that would pass there would be a very good choice for the material. V.E.G. A minister entered pollution, both hovering dust and the same as the cars himself. It would be good, then, to know exactly where the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u27	A respectable president. What the Declaration was all about was the cooperation between the road generation and the transport authorities with rural areas in the capital area on a project of up to 85 billion people in the last winter. About half went to various institutions to make traffic more efficient and facilitate, reducing pollution, and the other half, over 40 billion, went for public transportation. What was to be done in these days, these weeks, is a matter of how the government's financial involvement is going to be in the public part of the transportation of the rural communities and how the community should be involved in a set-up of expenses that may also be taken together. We also have bicycle trails and trails, but in fact, there's no riding footpaths in the capital, so I'll shoot them now, though it might be interesting. This is going very well. Work's going well. We have probably 18.6 billion dollars for public transport over a period of 15 years in this lucrative financial program, a billion each year. [[The president calls.]] That's far beyond what was in the contract, it reached only 2022, which was a business contract while we didn't do anything in the stockways. Now we're going to the track, so we need to record it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we have quite a bit of money, and we need to talk to our rural communities in the capital area how we can close this up and plan a procedure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u28	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A secretary of transportation for taking the time to discuss this important matter. In July 2017, the project management reported a large report on the identification of the Icelandic government level and finding opportunities and ways to strengthen it. The results of the project management included to suggest that governments set out a long-term policy for rural communities up to 20 years, that there would be a review of the equation's activities, that governments would be more selective in the development and financial support of the government level. The Project Management Board has set up 12 measures for the expansion of the unit level, and they are going to turn many on us here at the council. In fact, this project management is one of several committees appointed for the same purpose, but sadly, without success. There must be some concern about the reasons behind us and how we can make sure that this will not be another report ending in a drawer. There's a lot of things in this report that's interesting. The project management even did so. A survey of inhabitants of rural society, but local communities seem to focus on the ministry and its quality, but they are less aware of the extent to which they serve. A majority of responders felt that key aspects of the ministry would improve or remain unchanged if their community was to join another community. Then it was also found that there is a rich general will among local authorities for unity, which may include: see in the east where four rural areas in Eastern Europe have agreed to initiate formal discussions about unity. In spite of this fine example, it is clear that the proposal has to be discussed in the report. There are a number of things that would need to be examined together. Number 1, two and three is to emphasize that unity results in better service to the population rather than necessarily saving. It is necessary that the State put forth effort to support harmony in harmony with the harmony and clear emphasis on improved service and the quality of life in the areas in question. They need to be reminded that while administrative units change, the towns remain the same, Ólafsurfjörður remains unabated, and Flatus is still a Flatus, although they are members of new administrative modules. Mr. President. The report gives many other interesting details, but unfortunately, there is too short time here to discuss them further. Yet, rural communities are hard to discuss without entering their financing and the Sculpture Fund of rural society. The reality is that in Iceland we have examples of rural communities that have developed and are built up as very uniform communities of people with high intermediate incomes, communities that offer limited social services, such as social apartments, which can therefore provide both lower taxes and offer better basic services to their population than other societies can do. Of course, the results are inexplicable by rural communities, which must seem unacceptable and are quite different from what is common in most neighboring countries. To cope with this, it is suggested that income, which exceed a set reference of individual revenues, flow into the collective funds of the rural community. It would, for example. This means that a rural society with very high average incomes on the population would pay a portion of its outbacks to rural society, where the average income would be lower. The same would apply to rural society, which had excessive real estate taxes from companies, e.g. Because of hard work, they wouldn't sit alone at that source of income. Thus, the playground would be just as, at the same time, increasing the growth of unity. Finally, Mr. President, in this first speech, I would like to introduce state - to - country relations, but as a former government officer, I know from my own experience that all too often the communications of the government and the local representatives are characterized by suspicion and ignorance. This must be something that all of us would like to try to change, but these two points of government are to work together in the interests of the people, not in opposition to each other. The role of government and rural systems must then be examined in improving communication and strengthening trust. So I ask a minister: What task, if anyone sees ministers moving to the countryside? Will a minister promote changes in government and rural income? Will a minister suggest an increase in the minimum number of rural communities during this terms? How does a minister provide a means of improving communication and building trust between state and rural society?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flandrafjörður Elisdóttir for discussing the future and the expansion of the unit government, which we may not discuss at all. This is needed in a discussion, and the timing is good, since the new terms of rural government have recently begun. At such a milestone, we do well to look to the future. Among the presentations and discussions of the European Union Parliament recently were the reports of two committees of the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs on the issues of opinion. A senator has raised the issue today, on the one hand, about the status and future of the Icelandic community partner and the preliminary report on the review of the Regulation of rural activities. I think we at the General Assembly are most if not all of us agree with the policy of promoting the government level and ensuring that our rural communities have enough income institutions to carry out legal tasks. Then we would like to communicate with these two administrative ladders, the State and the local community, to be good and successful, although there may be some personal disagreements. I think it may be claimed that in recent years the trend is that this cooperation is getting very better. In recent years, we've seen positive developments in the unit control phase. The policy has been to promote the level of rural development by moving to rural and commercial groups and contributing to their reduction. I can see that they can be given additional assignments, e.g. would be considered for aging as well as for the high school business. However, people ask themselves, " Is my rural society really in the best position to meet such challenges? ' That's a normal question. More than half of rural communities have fewer than 1,000 inhabitants and more than one third of rural communities live in fewer than 500 inhabitants. The result is an extraordinary cooperation of rural communities on legal projects resulting in a lack of perspective and vague authority. There is also a vast support system of rural funds, from which smaller rural areas get more of their total income than the larger. One of the committees I mentioned earlier found that my rural communities were too small. Governments were suggested to establish clear long - term policy for rural society up to the next 20 years, with everything being subject to regional, regional, transport, and financial institutions. A new approach was called, a rural group would be seen by the services they perform and are intended to provide, carded and implemented, including with respect to geographic and demographic factors. I agree with this emphasis and have already taken the first step. With a new law adopted by the General in June, there will be plans in the area of transportation, telecommunications, rural government and settlements in agreement. Agricultural regime is not excluded, since it is now legal to take together one of the government's policies on the affairs of rural society. The minister of the seminar shall submit a three-year proposal for the resolution of the Council for a policy-making program of the State on rural issues to 15 years at the same time. The schedule should also set up a schedule for the next five years. At the Community Parliament, I proposed a common policy to reduce and promote rural development. The idea was that we could start a campaign that has four to eight years, most of all, to achieve certain goals together. At the same time, financial support from rural branch funds would be added to unity and to a decrease in debt of large sums. However, after the end of this period, a new rural government law would apply to a minimum number of inhabitants. The communities that would not have used the time to achieve a voluntary goal would thus need to unite with a neighboring group to meet the law on population. Then there would be no national election for unity, from that time on. Rather, it would be a duty of unity. These items will be part of the strategy for the unit management phase which will be undertaken closely in consultation with the European Union, and I have at that point encouraged this issue to be considered. In terms of income markets, sectoral activities have been discussed for a long period of time without the overall failure of the system. It has been noted that the present organization of the fund promotes unity and thus reduces the motivation to reform. It has been noted that the fund is at the will of small rural groups at larger costs and that rural communities that do not fully use anti-expansion sources will also be improved from the balance fund. Currently available suggestions are being carried out, starting with a simple adjustment of current regular action and thereafter, e.g. When unity is determined, a larger step can be taken. Updates will be presented within a few days in the Board of Management Guidelines, and changes are expected to take effect from next year on. In terms of other income markets, it is known that the government's will is to bring the cost to the countryside. Then there is a special debate on how this would be divided between rural partners. Finally, I'd like to mention the matter of justice that needs to be better leveled by rural activities that are used for energy production and distribution. [[The president calls.]] The farms that are fortunate enough to have stopped houses get good money and the rest of them don't. So I've decided to appoint a group with representatives to continue working with the ideas that lie on the board and shape suggestions for change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u30	Mr. President. What I want to do in this discussion is when the State takes a specific assignment to a rural society. It seems that there is a rule rather than an exception to the failure of enough government funds. For example, consider the newly released NPA laws or the personal assistance of disabled persons. The government pays 25% with each contract, while the companies pay 75%. This is an expensive resource. The service is changing from establishment to individual service. In some cases, it takes up to four to five employees to care for this new arrangement for each individual. No matter what the law may cost, the law has given the disabled person the right to get that service. Of course, this is an act of justice, but there must be money to render the ministry. The rural population also has to keep out the previously used instruments as cohesive because the MPA individual has the right to return, e.g. In a home, he wishes it. It's all offered to the local community, a significant increase in government service, but it's made the locals pay three quarters of the cost. Reykjavíkurburg is deeply concerned about the situation. This was shown at a meeting of the committee back then. How, then, did you think smaller rural areas could successfully meet this project? They simply do not have the volume to do so. Another example of how the state operates in rural areas without financial support is the new national protection laws from the European Union, a case that will cost the population more than one billion a year. Mr. President. If the situation is to improve the level of government, then the government must first clean up its home and realize that no new financial burdens can be put on the communities without the financial support. This big brother's relationship between state and country must be over. It's got to be a guarantee to the financial institutions of the community. It's the government's responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Frieda, the daughter of Elíasdóttir, for bringing this important matter up here and thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I think we in this room met the local government case much more often than we end up, we often set laws and rules that affect our rural communities directly and often without proper consultation with them. I'm very welcome to the report that's being discussed here. Especially do I agree with the importance of their larger and more powerful rural life in order to carry out their assigned services. Also, I think that rural society works long-term policy development is also important, i.e. that countries and rural groups work together to do that. The development of rural society is a matter that has often been discussed and appears to be an ever - present debate. I think we need to find a way, fast and steady, to see how it's normal to split the country's annual budget. Well, there's, like, the highest. A minister came on, so important that the equation fund is fixed and simplified so that, first of all, someone simply understands the rules. Then I'd like to use my last minute to include only on local projects. Some members of the community even want to take on more work. Is good, for some have the authority to do so. To me, it is important to look to what is closer and often is so that our rural communities are best qualified to perform that service. But I would love to, more dignified President, that we also looked at projects that are not closer to us than on the shoulders of the countryside. I would especially like to mention such matters as waste, for example. Work permit for lines and roads that pass through many rural areas. Perhaps it would be wise to start a conversation with the local communities about whether there are any lawsuits that they are doing today that might be better off making decisions at a larger level, such as here? At the same time, there are tasks that the rural communities could do very well, which would be of them to the close - up service. [[The president calls.]] It could be a good conversation for a long time, but I guess I'm in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u32	A respectable president. I want to agree with people about the income exchange. I'd like to contribute another party to that discussion, but it's how the motivation for the current income-divider system works. Farmers are mainly financed by real estate taxes and an expansive force. It generates a measure of motivation and limits the work in a four - foot [3 square m] home and an audience paying income tax. Implicit to build up a job life at the level of the rural government is aimed at these limitations, not necessarily building up a working life that is based on other conditions. Where do you think you're running, for example? the income of a network store or history, northern lights, smartphone programs, other types of employment but is limited by square feet and by the number of people paying income taxes? To include, for example, the capital tax, response, corporate tax, fishing fee, e.g., creating a different motive for developing a wide range of jobs, and there I think the key is in this matter. This is not only about securing the foundation for the funding of the unit management level and the service there, but also about making the job life across the country more diverse.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flandrafjörður Elisdóttir for this discussion. This is a very important subject and the report under which you will find it helpful to include in that discussion. I'd like to come into the country's income companies especially and talk to them about friends. I have now three times presented at a Parliamentary Reunion Directive on the authority of my community to impose environmental charges that could be one kind of currency that the rural communities could add. This has already been the subject of only the share of the community's capital income tax, so it could be imagined as a form of an exponent of their income or tax. The importance of hostilities is also high, with high potential for rural development. But like a couple of snoots. Senators have come in here, they also have to, before going all the way through that material, be sure to organise the way the host's cost spread between partners, whether we're going under an equation, or whether we're going another way into it. Hv. A senator came into the country's population and size, and actually did the highest. Ministers to that too. There is also the need to talk about community cooperation, which is very much in many areas. These are factors that we need to take a close look at, and I am at least one of the people who have come to believe that somehow rural societies should be motivated to unite and expand, in order to make it easier for them to take on an assignment. The continental communities are the key members of society, they play a vital role in close - up services, and their strengths, size, and cohesion are important in enabling them to fulfill these roles.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u34	Mr. President. Thank you for taking up this matter at a council meeting. We will discuss a report of a report by the Management Board that produced a report in July 2017 and has come here for a discussion of ways to strengthen the level of government. It is important that rural society is able to perform its legal function at any given time. That may have been the case. I can't tell you how small some of them are. Of course, there is an ever greater demand that the management board have opportunities to work professionally on its often very complex and more closely with regard to the financial affairs of the countryside. In fact, it is not the size of how it works, as shown by the example. The past few years, we've earned a lot of things about community unity. They were nearly 230 in 1950, were in 204 1990, 124 in 2000, and now 72, so they have accomplished much. It's all in the right direction. I would like to use my time to bring some questions to the highest level. Minister, e.g. about the impact of population in polynuclear rural areas or individual neighborhoods in larger rural areas. What is his view of their approach to choosing a special representative of the rural governments mentioned in the report? What is the position of a minister on democratic participation in decision making on an increasing level that has been discussed but little in the rural areas? Recently, during the summer or spring, a election was made in New York City. What is the minister's attitude toward increasing ethnic democracy? The report suggests, or reflects on the fact that this can become the root cause of division within the rural community, and it is not recommended at all. I was going to talk about a income exchange, but there's a better time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u35	Mr. President. First, let me celebrate this discussion on how we strengthen and strengthen the level of government. I think, in general, the transfer of projects to rural management was a good thing. The main purpose of improving the services of the local community is to bring in the ministry. But it is also quite obvious, as mentioned in the discussion here, that the funding of these projects has not been sufficient. It doesn't matter where you look. There are many examples of this, for example. it is estimated that 30% of the world's annual nursing budget is missing in order to meet standards defined by the state. Of course, it is a very convenient position for the state to sit on, to move to the other members of the countryside, to negotiate their funding at the start, and then to sit forward and develop requirements for this service team, without having any responsibility for their funding. I think we'll find this problem in a nutshell - it's not just the nurses' funding, it's also about to finance the elementary school level, it's time for funding services to the disabled and so on - when it comes to the pay point of the team members. Company personnel are the lowest paid unions in the country. These groups have simply been paid to the bone, cut off anything called overtime, or over payment of any kind, and shows that the workers of rural society usually have 25% less pay than the government's employees. Of course, this tells us that we have a problem here. Of course there may be explanations other than financial neglect in the unit level, there may be differences in education and responsibilities, etc., but this has also been very clear in these assessments, which may have been the least of which we have. A gender-related amount of pay is being taken out, that there is a substantial amount of job or pay-related difference in this, depending on whether you are employed by state or community. [[The president calls.]] It is obvious that the funding of the unit's government has to be addressed. It can't take longer to wait.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u36	Mr. President. I'd especially like to commend you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Frebjörg the Elíasdóttir of Elias for taking the initiative in this discussion, but few members of the council are as concerned with the growth of the nearby community as they are. Some 64% of the people live in the capital area. If the great capital area is taken from White River to White River, the ratio will reach 77%, with nearly 80% of the population living in that area. Only five countries in the world have a higher proportion of their population in one area. Thus, Iceland is one of the largest city states in the world, near Singapore, and we are next to the Catar and Bahama Islands, thus Iceland is not as scattered as many people, even here in this hall, count. Consider, however, the number of rural communities in this country. If it was similar to Norway and Finland, then Iceland's rural communities should be about 20, not 72, as they are now. In Finland and Denmark, each community is expected to have more than 20,000 inhabitants. A country in the United States considers the minimum to be 1,000 inhabitants, but it is now only 50 inhabitants. In Greenland, each member of the country must have at least one member of the country 8,000 inhabitants, however, are just one sixth of the population of Greenland. In the United States, some 40 societies have fewer than 1,000 inhabitants, and 50 societies have fewer than 2,000 inhabitants. So I'm convinced, Mr. President, that we would like to promote the unit level which many here would like, e.g. by the transport of projects, the increase in their income stocks, and in particular will ensure equality between the population wherever they live, in terms of social, school and welfare, we will have to reduce the number and increase the number of rural areas in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u37	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Frieda, the daughter of Elijah, for providing this needed discussion. At the beginning of the terms of the district administration, I think that the subject is similar to what has been done and that it is important to take the position and get information from the minister of the seminary. In recent years, rural society has not been given additional tasks, but it may be the lack of financial resources or the increase in the scope, management and quality of services after transfer. That's why there's a call for even more conversation and cooperation. This should be easy, for there is no more to hear than a harmony when it comes to discussions about the growth of the level of government and the importance of well being successful. Then we must also consider the setting of these matters. I would like to mention the role of an equation fund there. There is much to say about him. There we have a tool that has worked well, yet we must say, as it is, that the tendency has been to put in more and more tasks. It is difficult to discern his actual scope, and we likely come from his original purpose considerably. The above report suggests that the fund's activities will be taken into account and that it will require its support in long-term policy development and that the funds will be stopped to cover the current system. This has somehow developed because humans are always responding to situations that arise. Now it's a good thing to change this, because with a new law adopted at the General Assembly in June, there will be plans for transportation, communication, rural and urban development to be consistent. It is important that we make plans for the future. President. I'm the highest. Ministers continue to shape plans for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u38	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, the daughter of Elíasdóttir, for starting this discussion and setting it on schedule, as well as at the highest level. Minister for reply. This group of subjects is almost eternal and must always refresh on this discussion. The discussion, which has been aghast in this area, has been made clear about the unity of rural society, the relations between state and rural society, and the economy in uniting rural communities. Out of the rural areas where rural communities are not united, the rural communities are often asked for services where rural communities are united if small rural areas are within the region. That's not good. The senator asked the minister what task the minister would imagine would be added to the countryside. The minister took it up until high school and increased service to the elderly would be extended to the rural communities. It is in itself the best thing to do that the service is the most important thing in the community, but it is with the capital, it must be guaranteed. This is usually guaranteed at the beginning of the terms of the season and is not expected to increase over time. That's very bad. I've had experience in being a member of a rural government, and I've often been in trouble when it comes to sharing the money on community projects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Two minutes is coming by, so I'll finish here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u39	A respectable president. We all live in Iceland and we're Icelanders, but then we're the Kopavoglians and the Mervens, and there's a thread of Hunsunning in all of us, and there's quite a lot of people from Sigludur through the years. We teach ourselves a little bit about the locals we came from, the areas we came from. Then we wonder: " How can we strengthen our home field? How can we strengthen the level of government? The answer is, Of course, that this occurs primarily by building wood. This happens by creating a country's opportunity to create conditions that match what can be done across the country. Full-scale housing conditions, valuables, commercial creations. That, of course, is the basis for all of this. If it's not okay, we can talk about all kinds of solutions. But it's a valuable creation, a job, a home environment that controls it. Then the schools will come. Then the service will come, and the unity will come. As soon as it's okay, and it's found that since it's okay, such a trend is going on. We need to create these opportunities. For what? Because commercial life in the seas and rural areas has changed dramatically in recent years, and that will change dramatically in the years to come. They work basic roads and the basic objects of creation that have been in the country's settlements will not be the same. People are getting smaller all the time. Much less hands make much more valuable. We need to create opportunities for new resources, different opportunities. &lt; Laxeldi where appropriate, the dataspace where appropriate. We need to be able to provide road systems and electrical distribution systems. Then we'll expand the unit's administration phase. Then they can take other assignments. I'm concerned with how much the government's tendency has been to take on projects at the state level. [[The president calls.]] One subject was discussed in spring, which is very prominent for this, ocean organization and coast. [[The president calls.]] The ideas that came first from the state of the business were taking it completely from the communities. I think we can look the other way, and we're supposed to promote the state level. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u40	A respectable president. Then we go the other way, too, and we give it to our rural society, for example. NAPA and financing from the state 25% of those contracts, but only for about four more years. Then the level of government needs to be on its own. You see, it's going both ways. What at least To a large extent, the piranha contributes to the rural level of independence. There's a share in the VAT at the source tax, i.e. that the value tax that happens when the tourist goes through the rural companies, shops at the supermarket, or buys food at the restaurant, remain in the local community, the local community has its share of the valuable tax, the income tax of the companies, and the capital tax in which the service is made. This is a key key to achieving this foundation that is needed for rural society to remain financially independent. Then they can easily unite because one thing we know has been a problem in the combination is a distinct difference between the two groups of resources that want to unite, one is very rich and the other doesn't necessarily, and there will be tensions about whether or not to keep the resources that used to be in another group, but it's hard to combine to evaluate what to do. Somebody thinks, someone lets go. It stands for everyone's cleaning, so we have to build the foundations first so we're at least discuss it on equal terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flandrafjörður Elisdóttir, for this vital discussion on the state of government. It is usually most successful that services to the inhabitants are the closest they can get to them and that the decision - making process takes place in the surrounding community. Farmers are better qualified to provide close - up services than the state. More projects will promote the state of government and the commercial life across the country. Many fine steps have been taken to take an assignment from the State to the countryside. The problem, however, has been that in the past, only enough money has been achieved with the projects. Although today most would agree that basic schools should be responsible for our community, we who served in the schools when taken from the State that the change did not work without a conflict. Many rural communities found it difficult to go to school. When cases of disabled persons were transferred from state to community, many smaller communities were concerned that the group would become too expensive and that the funds for the projects would not be sufficient. It has certainly happened since the day. In general, rural authorities, especially in smaller rural areas, feel that the move did not strengthen the unit control level. The report shows that local authorities generally feel that there are no more tasks to be offered to the rural community than because of previous experience fears the project. There the weightier the transfer of the problems of disabled people, many of whom believe that they have not felt bad enough. To ensure funding for such projects, you need to revise your income exchange between your country and your partner.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u42	Mr. President. I thank the advisor, minister, and other participants for this vital discussion. We are actually dealing with the division of countries and rural communities, and in the context of how rural communities are provided enough income stocks to care for these projects. It is important that we consider moving more projects to the rural communities, such as the minister mentioned aging services and high school, to cover the existing labor division, and to meet the rural areas in order to maintain and maintain a proper and adequate physical well - being in these areas. A financial committee makes you realize how much anxiety the local authorities have on these factors. I give an example: In Southnes, there has been a large population growth that may be unprecedented and unknown, and this is happening without guaranteeing sufficient income for the state's institutions, much less the institutions of the rural community. There is much concern in the city of Reykjavík. For example, in the case of those who are disabled, Reykjavík has a large welfare service. In a very convincing way, the city's use of the material was declared to us in a financial committee. It is said that ever since this group of paintings was taken, there are more than 6 billion dollars in total. [[The president calls.]] That's not all you could say. There must be a review of the income institutions and a check on real estate taxes, and it goes up without any democratic elected man coming to that tax increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u43	Mr. President. I'd like to make a subject for the second talk by the local income groups. I think it's obvious that we need to improve the income of our rural society. The fact that rural communities build their income almost solely on expansion and real estate costs is simply too monotonous and, as it has been pointed out, highly fluctuating income stocks against the very stable expenses of the rural society. Of course, we know that both, real estate costs, and the answer, will fluctuate greatly according to the economic situation at any given time, but, of course, the duties and expenses of the community do not change so much and are more likely to grow during a crisis period, i.e. At the same time that income is contracting. I think it's perfectly obvious that the need to connect community interests more closely with the growth and maintenance of employment in the area. Then there is a fishing road and tourism, which would be used in our mind for a restoration to link, e.g. On resource expenditures such that rural communities are benefiting from fishing costs and the expected resource costs in the energy sector, which is precisely a major problem with the very low distribution of rural incomes themselves in building up energy-effective activities in the region. Most important, it is in the tourism industry where we see that rural areas often become significant expenses for building wood but are certainly not benefiting from the development in which they do not share in any sum or income tax. I think it's perfectly clear when we consider how we can promote the level of rural management that it is by providing them with wider revenues. [[The president calls.]] You also clearly need to strengthen your farm society's income, but as we look to the size of our rural society, it's not always necessary to drive things through with supplies. It may also be positive, e.g. through the equation, to promote unity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u44	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister once more and again. Parliamentaries who participated in the discussion. As we have seen, it is not simply a matter of strengthening the level of government, but it is possible. I'm glad to hear an interest. Minister and minister. Congress officials say it will be done. As I mentioned in the first speech, the funding of the unit's government has to be considered. For this reason, I want to draw attention to another interesting report that was also published in the previous year, a preliminary report on the review of the joint's equations. This is precisely what is being arranged for rural society to be able to obtain from an equal reserve only if it is fully useful to its farms. It also states that some societies receive almost half of their income from an equation fund, which means they are not self-sustained. The ball with regard to that report is at the top. A minister and would be interested to learn what he intends to do with the suggestions of the committee as well. We may forget it sometimes, but the local government is the other administrative level in Iceland. It matters for the people, for all of us, that rural governments are enabled to carry out their assignments and to run them decently. Too much time goes into business and reflexes, and too little time is left to look to the future and build up. We must want to work on that rural society can carry out its legal tasks toward its inhabitants, properly building up its rural communities for the future. For this to be possible, we need to be able to deal with and strengthen the level of local government in a variety of ways, with which our responsibility is involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u45	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank your objective discussion and positive interest in the idea of promoting the level of government. As we have seen, this may not be a simple matter. Some say and I agree, for example. with a base. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, that the wood needs to be strengthened. If transportation is good, enough electricity, communications and equal access to health and education, let's do our homework, say many, and that's understandable. At the same time, we also watch that Iceland's rural communities are exceptionally independent, with their own private institutions, and many have discussed the sector's income and division. The income of an equation is an average of 13% of the income of rural society but is, for example, one. 50% in Norway. There's also a need to be careful in there. We've got the panther fund. We've got it as a control device. In my speech, I repeat that in the next few days, there will be some progress on how we can begin with a simple adjustment to present - day rule work, but the law on the balance fund needs to be taken up. One of the things we'll do there is put a growth burden on a region, e.g. magazines in the South and in some other places, where there has been a growing population in recent years, but donations have not responded. It is very important to make use of the funds. I think that's one of the simplest ways to do that. Only local democracy has been discussed. I think it's good to increase it. I don't think there's a chance that in this way they're gonna split the communities in half, at least not if their communities are big enough. You just have to accept the conclusion. This is often the democratic conclusion of some dispute. With regard to polynuclear groups and whether to have special representatives in rural governments, I have not thought of it. I have seen the problems of these many contracts, which are between 20 and 25 C.E., which each community does with its neighbor because it cannot handle its own work. I am much more concerned about the lack of authority there and the democracy in terms of how men are elected to represent the whole and half of their communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u46	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in the labour laws, the method of loyalty and security. In general, these laws have sometimes been referred to as the Protection Act, and I will take advantage of them in my case from now on. During the joint cooperation work of the state, rural society, and the overall association of disabled persons on user - controlled personal assistance, there have also been provisions for temporary work protection. It has been stated that with an agreement between the labour market parties, it is permitted to deviate from the law's law on rest time and the night job of employees who perform individual services on the basis of the project. The time of this law ran out when the laws for the services of disabled people with long - term support went into effect on October 1. and thus no longer can be negotiated for variation from the labour days rules. In order to ensure the aim of law - enforcement services for disabled persons with long - term support needs, it is necessary to continue on the OSH laws to negotiate more time than the laws of the law require for those who serve on the basis of the law. This is because, according to the law, it is considered necessary, at least in certain cases, to organize services in such a way that it is reasonable to assume that the work period does not include the normal working hours rules. Therefore, if in the bill this suggests that there is still more time to negotiate with these appointed employees, from now on. It is important to make sure that this has been the case. A respectable president. I'd like to state that it is those who here do not love to stand here and measure for a bill that allows them to be made such variations from the hours of work that are viewed as minimum employment rights. I have been preaching here at the General Assembly that we are going to take social subsidiary at work, and so I am in a very special position measuring for a bill in which it is assumed that certain arrangements will be authorized when it comes to a legal rest period for a small group of workers in a labour market. The processing of the bill was specifically requested reviews from the labour market organisations as well as from the government workaholics, which carry out the workforce. It is most recently reported that the government's work programme, ASI, BHM, BSRB, actually violates this bill as a law in which there is no strong evidence to compromise in this way from rights. However, a review by the European Union's member states that the relationship supports the subject of the bill. It also helps to note that if there is no flexibility in working hours for the employees involved, it may increase the likelihood that the user - controlled personal assistance will be partly reduced to a black job, where it will interfere with the written agreements made. After careful reviewing these conflicting views that have been presented in the processing of the bill, I have a certain understanding of the position of these individuals and, especially, the labor movement. However, I feel that it is unavoidable to extend at this time's source to negotiate a spaced period in these specific cases so that a requested service can continue on the basis of a law on the services of disabled persons with long - term needs, as has been the case during the trial. In my opinion, it is important that this time be used to analyze the ministry and find ways to organize it so that it stays within laws and regulations. Therefore, I feel that the advantage of the situation is better to suggest that, on the basis of a warrant for temporary variation, rather than providing physical adjustments in the laws of the law. So this is an extension of temporary documents. Then I've already requested nominees from the labour market organisations, the workforce, development aid and the National Development Association for a representative of a committee I've decided to appoint in this relationship. It will have the responsibility to monitor whether the rights of the staff involved in the services performed on the basis of a law on services to disabled persons with long-term needs are respected, such as working hours, sick leaves, holiday and working conditions. I will also request that these committees offer suggestions on changing the organization of the ministry, allowing it to fit within the framework of the Labour Protection Act and, after acts of law or regulations, become necessary. As for the rights and working environment of the workers involved here and to add only to them, we Icelanders have often given us a good opportunity to look to the neighboring countries of the North, when we are looking for legal advice, including the U.S.A. in this area like anyone else. It is very difficult to get information about how this is solved in Norway, Sweden and Finland, and it seems in these countries that it also looks through its fingers and that it also breaks the protection laws. So me and the Icelanders have to figure out what's going to happen in the next few years. We must certainly not take the step toward people who work on the basis of a law for the services of disabled persons who have long - term needs, who are less equipped than other employees in the workplace. I believe it is very important that the Council gathers in order to prevent this from happening and therefore have decided to submit this bill in spite of opposition. The labor movement. By doing so, I hope that together we will be able to find a solution to the future, where the viewpoints of those who make good use of theocratic services as well as those who render the ministry will be maintained. Increasing rights such as these should not be and should not be permanently restricted by others. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u47	Mr. President. Hv. In his speech, a minister reviewed the existent cohesion that he and his office, the minister of the work, will come to his attention when assessed to extend such an arrangement. I'm mostly sympathetic - or we'd rather say an understanding of this crisis than I feel very sorry for it. But there is something else. What I would like to do, however, is this: There is now a very high demand for abbreviated week of work in the community. You wonder how it'll blend into the people working in the MPA service and negotiations because once and if-- let's just say: when the workweek gets late, let's say that it even happens at the next crew contracts, we'll step further on the toes of those who've been fighting for this work protection, i.e. not to work cycles are too long. I'd like to hear it from the highest. Minister if these views have been pondered at the Ministry and if there is anything involved with the workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u48	A respectable president. Yeah, there's a lot of trouble in this case. The service we have decided to perform - we have not been molded in what way we can solve the future how our work organization will be handled. I point to the fact that this warrant is not running out right now. It ran out on October 1st. so that the remainder of this month has not been in force in this regard, and in reality, this is an illegal activity. How important it is, then, that this matter enter the council! That's why they come here instead of letting it go. Then we need to work hard. Therefore, it is suggested that this be a provision rather than a future legal arrangement, and then we need to see how this will be permanently solved. It is a very special job to handle personal help from a user - controlled person. Thus, no other job can be compared to a job market. We need to look at how we can make up for those who do this work. Of course, that includes the emphasis now on thebbreviated workweek and other factors discussed in collective agreements. I expect and stress that the committee who handles the ball now and supervises these factors also plays a role in looking for ways to see how to organize the work of individuals who are personally involved in personal assistance. This is true of abbreviated work week, as is other factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Yeah, it's a certain mess we're in there. A minister made it clear that the provisions were indeed temporary, valid until the end of 2020, so let's assume that if the workweek is negotiated, it will be hopefully before that time. But then we come to the other thing. Now, if I recall correctly, a day - long schedule for care costs a year's work. We shorten our work week to almost seven jobs if we follow the biggest questions about thebbreviated week of work. And somehow, we as a community have to face it. But just in the ministry involved, we are often subject to the event. We depend on someone to be present, and it can never be less than one. Then I'd like a second answer. Ministers depending on whether the Ministry had any questions about the percentages may have to be accepted as part of the contract with the local community, i.e. The 25:75 exchange, as well as if we are going to need even more employees to work on the basis of abbreviated week of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u50	A respectable president. Just as the senator appears, abbreviated work week will clearly demand more standards each year in all activities requiring a day - to - day service. It also makes sense that it costs more money. Of course, since both state - and - community funds are available in this case, it is reasonable to assume that the person with the larger costs, in this case, will require the State to be paid extra money to do that. However, there has been no use of speech. But I expect that when a person begins to settle in the manner in which the legislation and the organization are to remain permanent in regard to the viewpoint that the financial and cost exchanges will arise from the community. But no conclusion has been made, since the matter has simply not been entered on the table of the Ministry of Health as yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u51	Mr. President. As noted, this bill's subject is primarily what employees will be serving on the basis of a law on services to disabled persons with long - term needs, as well as those who enjoy the ministry. We had something else to do with this in the council since then. winters that went into the service of disabled people, which were quite extensive, called for thought and work. This is the case, as it were, with emphasis on employees, working conditions, and those who enjoy them. This report says that it is important to get in touch with the authority to set aside space hours while the laws of the law assume, because of the employees who perform the requested service. It is noted that in some cases the work time will be more than standard, or in other words: there will be variations in the regulations of the laws on how things should be handled, loyalty and security at work for those workers who will be served on the basis of a law on services to disabled persons with long-term needs, as has been the case during the investigation. I mention this point in particular because that is what we must conclude. As mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. A minister has resisted this deviation from the minimum work time rules that no longer involve temporary projects. Under that view, the ASI and the BSRB and the Protestant Alliance declare their opposition to continued release from the Sabbath law of the Ecosystems. I certainly hope that we come to a conclusion in this important matter, especially now at this time, so that we can introduce sufficient user-controlled personal assistance, PA, to all parties and this part to it. At the end, I'd like to mention only what was said in the language of the highest. A minister in whom he spoke of his intention to appoint a committee. I really hope that committee is working fast and effective, for we have recently heard of its many problems, especially in rural areas, regarding how this important matter should continue. All of us, then, need to make sure that we have a successful outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u52	Mr. President. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in the labour laws, the method of loyalty and security, i.e. the factor that particularly turns to so-called MPA services. Hv. The members of Congress are naturally aware of the discussion that took place in connection with the sentence of the law here in our last spring, i.e. The law to support people with long-term needs, and members of Congress. The welfare committee is no doubt aware of the topic under which the discussion should be handled. The view of the labor movement in this case has already existed. She immediately explained to the bill that she was concerned about these factors and that she was not surprised. The worktime law and the environment protection laws are the products of the decades of labor movement struggles. It is no wonder, then, that they do not take the steps lightly, which could be some kind of exception or change for the worse of that law. So I understand the dilemma of taking steps to extend the release process. That's why I wonder, Mr. President, if it's not too much of a shame to intend to give an exception to more than two years of age in this step. Whether it would be wrong to face the fact that we are not going to have any agreement, either with the labor movement or the rural communities, which is the way we are going to do this for the future at the time we don't really have to finish the case, because our parole has actually come out, but instead of us a time pressure, e.g. to have the exception to one year rather than two. I'm sure there are more senators who have a little bad taste in their mouths because they need this kind of, sorry language, President, a shit mix to make it possible to continue many of these NA contracts. That's just not good enough. I think we're gonna do what. Congress members would agree that the NPA was an enormously legal penalties for those with disability. At least I believe we're not interested in taking steps back there. In the same way, however, we are not interested in taking steps back in the protection laws. Well, obviously not. It is now available to become a labour market agreement, the union's claim. Then it is not particularly good to start that journey in some two - year allowance or more before leaving. I remind you of the connection with thebbreviated workweek I mentioned earlier. It needs to be examined too. It's not a simple matter. V.E.G. A minister entered what is right, that at work that exactly requires a company, the cost will be at the end of the week's work. I guess you're right by the highest level. A minister in a number of cases, but there is another conversation with the labor movement. We've been pretty trapped in eight hours of work, where we have what we call rolling shifts. In recent years, more and more institutions have been able to support themselves with four - up - to - six - hour jobs, or between four and eight hours, many of which have excellent success. Perhaps there is something to discuss in this context and you may need to discuss in the context of your work week shortening and whether it is best to have the work cycles as a percentage of 40 or 36. I say for myself, I will listen to the arguments of the labor movement. I suppose that's what. The welfare committee will call the labor movement on the committee, and also the other members of the labour market, that you do not talk about the association of disabled people I will listen closely and carefully to the viewpoints it presents, and then hopefully the committee will be able to negotiate which land we are getting in this case. But I reiterate what I said earlier: There is nothing you can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u53	A respectable president. We'll discuss this bill to correct the changes in the labour laws, the method of loyalty and security. This matter has been held on a welfare committee for some time, and we have discussed it quite often. This is, of course, a very special matter. I just agree with what's been going on here, both at the highest level. Ministers and for the last speaker, of course, that it is not an easy step to enter the work law and work protection, as this certainly does after years of labor struggle for man - made hours. I was recalling that for the committee of the earlier stage, there were employees who did this sort of work, two at least, and they made sure that this special time of work, which, of course, is a little different from many others, would be suitable for students and students. It's a lot of sleeping shifts, as they call it. People are there 24 hours a day and a lot of company. There is nothing to go away when looking out for a person who has such a disability. It also appeared at a meeting on the welfare committee of one person who did this work that he thought it best to be two days at a time at work, have a domestic partnership, and a social event, saying that he had found the best rhythm in it. Of course, it differs greatly in the way this is. We're talking about a very special job, it's different than anything else. Of course, when we talk about reducing the work week to 35 hours and out of increasing production, it is not appropriate for work such as this because it is primarily about long living things and taking care of the health and well - being of the person involved. The labor movement has responded, and I understand very well the viewpoint, as a previous speaker thoroughly entered the past. But we must not wear such a box in all cases that everything is unchangeable. Society is changing. Decades ago, when the work law was being written, there might not be such a service. What I'm most concerned about in this regard is that if this flexibility is not allowed, the cost of NPA contracts will be greatly increased, which will result in a reduction in the number of contracts. Then those who have the potential to get an NPA contract will be reduced due to an increase in their cost, perhaps just because we are not ready to adapt the work law in this respect. I think it's important to all of us, and all of us here are here to protect it and keep our minds open with the labor movement in it, but we can't go into a box like this and shut us down there and we can't move out. We must be able to see through our fingers with some very exceptional situation and must be able to make changes. I will support the continuation of this law on December 31, 2020, and I agree with the first speaker to make the best use of that time so that we can guarantee it to the future, to those who need the ministry for good. It is important that people are drawn to this work, that people reach out for someone who may not necessarily fail them all. It is important that e.g. Students who see there the opportunity to work with study will remain the work force we can rely on in this because it has not been easy to obtain people in those jobs. I know. With more contracts, this needs to be made easier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u54	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill about a change in the law on the equipment and method of loyalty at work. It's about NPA. This situation is very difficult because it is basically a job that cannot be described, it can be so different. Because there are extraordinary situations in this context, we have to make sure things are all right. What I fear most that we forget in this context, e.g. access to group vans and so forth, as I spoke to the highest level. Secretary of transportation this morning. Of course, it is also important for those who are employed. While things are totally paralytic, while we do not see human rights to be respected by disabled people, we expect the most critical ones in this matter to receive help - we must demand that the equipment and potential of assistants be put to work beyond what can be demanded of them. They may not be able to do their job because things do not reveal to them that the law is being done. I recently heard that the latest buses and trucks do not have the equipment these vehicles are supposed to have by law. It seems to be under the disabled and motion - stricken person to make sure that this is the case, with the charge, instead of seeing what to do, like a traffic room and others, is ready for the car to be done. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, this is a job you don't really know how to define. A minister came into this situation earlier. All I have to say is that I had a gentle chills going down my spine when I was at the highest. A minister spoke about a committee because when mentioned, the saying comes to mind: No more, just mentioned. It has to be said, as it is, that you always feel that if something is put on a committee, it should be put to sleep to avoid things and to take into account those who are in the service. In this case, we have to be careful. We need to examine this matter carefully when it comes to a committee. I hope that we can take care of things so that everyone can make things right and especially those who need to use them and also the help, because they must also be happy. I see that it might be a little difficult to get people to work this way if the work environment is so that there are no more obstacles. It's a very small chance that this will work, as we expect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u55	President. Here, we'll talk about a bill where we are, as mentioned here, in a bit of a tough situation. From the rights of the workers, which is very bad, the effects on NPA users may be even worse because they were in a worse position at first. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson that we need to hurry this up. I wondered, and that's something we'll probably look at the welfare committee, whether the time should be for a year, but rather two just to speed it up, because it's a bad situation we don't want to be alive. NPA has now been on experience since 2012 or 2013, at least for a few years. Why has this matter not been resolved? I don't quite understand why last-minute action is always being taken. We've had more than a few hours, and we should have anticipated that this would be a problem. We should have figured this out by now. However, since this has not been done, this needs to be done quickly. We have to. We will have guests before the committee, and we will consider these points closely in the committee. The conclusion may be that it needs to be rushed much more than a two - year period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u56	A respectable president. This is interesting and complicated, and this problem has, as mentioned in the previous issue. speakers, lie down for a while. Here, however, the needs of users of the ministry and the rights of the staff and the task are to coordinate these two so that both are honored and it is very important to keep both of them in mind. It is important to remember that this is a work environment and work that traditional procedures may not completely cover. It is a work that differs from other jobs. This is not a fixed workplace, as most of us may get used to, but the workplace follows those who enjoy the ministry, and the workplace is therefore everywhere. The same is true when it comes to working hours. It is difficult to pin him down because some of the people who do this may want to work for a certain time and then have time off and such clear rules about resttime do not always apply. Rather, it may be thought that this is a part of the arrangement of the ministry and of the one who makes it available. It must be emphasized that this work is different from other jobs, yet it is very important to ensure the rights of those who enjoy the ministry and those who do it. It is also very important to know who's going to pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u57	A respectable president. I wanted to come up after this discussion to review the points that have been made, but let's start by saying that I think this discussion is very good, she's needed and she's urgent. In fact, among all speakers, a grain of truth has been shown and how these matters are handled. I'll start with that as long as possible. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson came in earlier on an agreement, that an agreement could be made between service and service services. Even if those two people reached an agreement that both would be happy with and possibly on the other hand as well as on the other hand. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson came in earlier and mentioned an excellent example of a person who was doing such a service and who wanted to do it for two days, it's illegal to do such a deal. Even if all of us here would agree that such things would be decent, both for the minister and possibly better for the one who accepts the ministry, it is simply illegal. Also, neighbors seem to have been in the same mess. I've been asking that question in my department and I've had meetings with the labor movement on how this is in the North countries. There's no answers. One of the things very easy to do is call for notes, but you can't get information about what it's like in the North countries because it's where you just think people can see through your fingers how it's done. So it's really important, so I'll just come in with it for a second. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson mentioned in his case and turned to the fact that we were going to appoint a committee, that a conversation is being arranged because we don't want to put any changes in the Labour Protection Act unless we have had a discussion with anyone who has to make it happen and that this must end because it's a provisional law. It is not being suggested that these laws be placed permanently, such as these, so that there can never be anything other than a landing. Because it was spoken of for how long the release should be then, I announced that when this case was started in the Ministry, there were ideas of having it for three years. I felt that it was too long, so I suggested it as short as two years ago. But it is a welfare committee that will consider the matter further. And the outcome of the committee will be the one standing here trying to put pressure on the case at the speed of the outcome. However, I would like to reiterate that it was very important for me to bring the matter here and ask for this extension because it should be so that we should show respect for the protection laws, and we should not turn it away, and we should not ignore some of the factors. Therefore, we should attach it even if there is a short period of time and extend the existing authority. I am very happy that both the labor movement and the government workaholics made comments on this because it would be very unnatural if they hadn't, because the government's work board should make these comments. I say with all those who have spoken, and with them that have been the red thread, that this thing is a matter of difficulty. There is no workplace that can be compared to providing personal assistance to a user - controlled person. There's no one. This is a very special work because work is life itself. The job is to care for the person in all his life anywhere. Now I say, if we're doing that kind of service and need a shift of four to five times a day, it's also awkward for the person who gets the service. So this is a very difficult matter, and it is vital that this conversation be conducted. I leave it up to the welfare committee to evaluate the duration of this provision. But at the same time, I point to the fact that I trust the committee very well in reviewing this and encouraging it to call for what it is like in the North countries, as a minister has done. Thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u58	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the loss of the law on government bonds, No. 51/1924. The bill was written at the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, and this led to preparatory and diagnostic work done in cooperation with Iceland's Secret Bank as a federal loan, under the contract between the bank and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, on the basis of permission in 6rd. No. No. No. 43/1990. The bill suggests a bill of government bonds, No. 51/11924, fall out, as if they have been replaced by a new set of state funds, such as the laws on the national loan fund, No. 79/1983, and State loans Acts, No. 43/1990. The bill includes only one physical change from the current rights. This is the arrangement of 1st. Section 3. Act on bond bonds, that bonds should not be published for longer than 25 years, are canceled. If the bill is the law, the government's benefits on the debt control will increase, and there will be an increase in risk distribution. Today's credit policy, however, does not mean that such a possibility will be used unless it would show that such a version would have considerable benefits to the government's funds. Thus, the change enables the state's funds to determine whether financial and financial commitments of the state's funds can be guaranteed at a lower cost than previously produced by longer government bonds than is permitted today. If that is the case, it can be assumed that the interest rate of the state's budget will be reduced. Social benefits include making it possible to secure a more practical budget and reduce interest costs for the fund, thus making room for less taxes or increased public service. If the circulation of government bonds is long-term, but 25 years of age is not likely to ensure a more economic funding of the state's funds, the government fund will not issue such a letter. Thus, the change should not mean any expense. On August 14, 2018, a bill was published in the board's consultations and gave two weeks to give reviews. There was no comment. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u59	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for his history. I'm curious to know, if he knows the answer, why this restriction was put in its own time, in 1923 or in 1924, whether he knows the ideas that were behind it. I guess that's why people didn't want to be in debt for a long time. Secondly, I have to ask the highest. Financial Minister: If this bill and this change become legal, i.e. to drop 25 years, the Commission will then be authorised without limits and may, for example, be provided with a warrant. published by 100-year-old bonds?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u60	A respectable president. Ask yourself: " What conditions were there less than 100 years ago? I don't know the exact answer, but I guess I'm not gonna let myself guess that maybe it was a view that it was a responsibility to take over a government account longer than this, to tie men around this long time. In that case, it may seem that the markets for the stock market today are, of course, much deeper and more varied and mature, and I think it may be said that there will be no balance between what the market can offer a much better alternative today and what the market is much deeper, although only local markets and who could be recipients, buyers at such letters, etc. The main thought is to dissociate the roof, which means that government bonds that are much longer, even for a whole century. A senator mentioned, as is the case. It is highly unlikely that I will be able to do so in the future or that humans will be planning on such a publication.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance responds and agrees with him that there are natural other circumstances, and the bond market is quite different from those times. I was looking for this through the Generals' Web, if there were any ideas behind the 1924 arrangement, I couldn't find it, but we know that men were more cautious at that time than we saw, for example. in the event of the crash, etc., when it came to financial matters. So it is possible to issue bonds up to 100 years of age. I feel that there's a bit of a lot of stress in that subject, and I wonder if it wasn't any more reasonable, I might follow through in a short speech, making room for this warrant something, Say, for perhaps 30,335 years. I think it's in a paper with the bill that the state is releasing bonds for 30 years. It may be that we would have that line somewhere rather than just leave it open. I have some doubts about that, but thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u62	A respectable president. I just want to emphasize that since there is an increasing number of options, the main look is not to rule out benefits that could be considered more practical in some cases. I believe it is important here in the discussion of this case that we are opening up for the possibility of taking longer loans, which is considered a more practical option for state funds. Not to take longer - term adverse loans, but to make all the options for financing available. As I reasoned in my history, we cannot imagine that such a longer loan time will be used unless it is more practical. If he becomes less fortunate, he will not be put to the test of this change or of the opening of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u63	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister here recommends a bill that is designed to eliminate other laws, and I'm just going to let myself have my initial response to always cheering up like that. It says here on the grounds and need of the law, to pass these laws into effect, that other laws have actually replaced them, and referred to the law on the domestic loan fund, No. 79/1983, and State loans Acts, No. 43/1990. Now these two laws are not very new, so I wondered if there would have been a reason to break the fine laws involved, No. 51/1924, earlier than this date. Besides, I'd love to hear from the top. Whether he intends to contribute more prime products that are subject to specific arrangements at the Law Museum, so to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u64	A respectable president. Yes, it may well happen that such things can happen if we come across out - of - date laws or laws that include the rules of conduct that we want to act in the same way. I'm not going to follow a certain example of this, but that's just gonna come out of the situation. I want to agree with what. A senator will do well when we succeed in simplifying our rule, as can be done by removing out - of - date laws. What is left in the material of this case is just this with the maximum publishing time, but other factors have changed by new laws that I changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u65	Mr. President. By means of the bill, if the law works, it is being given the government funds the opportunity to make the nation more committed to the past than 25 years. There are no doubt some who would say that it is dangerous to have as open a warrant as possible. The person standing here is one of them. This gives the State a warrant, as shown in the reply of the highest power. Secretary of finance, to provide a 100 - year bond that is moving forward to the next generations. According to the information I received from the U.S.A., I understand that it is permitted to post such a bond. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. The question, though, is whether this change has become an open source, something to be considered, that future generations will then have to pay. That's my judgment dangerous, and I'll get in more afterwards. Of course, in this regard, if that is the case, it is very important that the letters be disloyal. If a letter was inflatable, the matter would be different. Inflation would be added to the head chair, which would be paid gradually. In fact, the postmarket business is somewhat active, also longer letters, so we shouldn't have much to sell. It is interesting, though, to see the concern of such letters. I still don't quite understand why the pension fund is rolling it around so much, even if the cost is small, because it's always an indirect cost of buying and selling. Besides, I think business-watched banks are the letters that guarantee that they will sell. The reason to have long - term messages on growth process is understandable, for companies who want to publish long - term bond letters need to have some reference. Even the argument is that the state's budget should be owed something to have active growth management on the market, but it can be debated. According to the bill, the goal is to have a mean loan period of five to seven years, but it could possibly be longer. It is important for me to see how much longer it could be so that people do not get over it in the longer letters. The report says that at present the average loan time is within their limits, but it is not excluded that it will go to some point beyond the limit. Under these circumstances, a higher rate of government goods can help him reach an average - time goal. The fact that the state fund is giving out more letters to meet the needs of pensions, I don't really feel that it is a reason. The report contains a chapter that bears the prescription effect on a pension fund. It also states that the predictable enlargement of the funds could lead to an increase in their demand on the part of long term bonding. With the changes proposed in the bill, a government fund will be able to meet such demand for the pension fund, if available, with the long-term release of debt bonds, consistent with such a version of the State Fund's interests and the above primary objectives of loan management. This was shown in the case of the highest. Secretary of finance. Increasing the offer of government letters will help to reduce interest levels. In the context, it has to be noted that the possibility of keeping a particular level of sale is definitely not at the expense of increasing shift interest levels where the over-importation of such letters would eventually create such a situation. I think it's more reasonable to assume that the release of bonds is no longer than 30 to 6.55 years old. In this regard, I believe we should follow the report that the state recently published a 30-year bond, as I mentioned earlier. I believe that the approval of the state's license to issue a bond to 30-035 years and also the need for the legislature to have some limitations in the lifetime of bond bonds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u66	Mr. President. I'm going to allow myself to be declared in general by this bill, with a view to increasing the flexibility of the government loan and Risk Management Board. In fact, we Icelanders have come to the very place where we may be changing from being eco-involved to the foreign world to become an eco-efficiency maker. Maybe the day will come when we have to cover more about property control than a loan case in this field. I remember when I had the assignment, then in the Federal Bank, to be the first to publish the U.S. bond market at the National Republic of Iceland's bonds, as it is called. That version was completed for ten years. It was February 1994 and took place at a high level in preparation. At the same time, an American pharmaceutical company, Eli Lilly private company, Mr. President - was publishing bonds to 100 years of age on this market. In Iceland, we have entrusted individuals with a very risky bond to 40 years of age, very risky in the sense that they are insured and relegated to the bond, the borrower, is subject to a very high risk. I think it's safe that the government fund has this authority that was wanted by canceling these laws, and I reiterate that I'm the recommended bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this fine passage, Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson. What a joy it would be to experience that we are here, in connection with financial laws and other things, property control, when it comes to financial funds, not credits! We may find that to be true. What a blessing that would be for the nation! I say it here and came into my speech that the bill is in itself fine. I simply post a question mark at this version time on the letters. It is quite normal to extend this time, it is to my judgment too short, and I'm sure it will. But then we'll come back to what I mentioned earlier. Is that supposed to be an open source? I believe that it is not wise to make such a commitment to the nation, that any time the government can commit the nation to the future. That's why, as I said, I've decided that it was in the next 30 to 35 years, and maybe we'd follow what's going on around us, but hardly as in the United States - w. A senator rightly mentioned 100 years, a long time. Maybe there's some other situation there, I don't know exactly. The bill that I like to think about, but I would have wanted to see that some limits were set at that time, the gap was up, from 25 years, as I said, perhaps to 35.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u68	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I just wanted to say that it's not often that you run into a case where there's a bond. Actually, we're going to be the only nation in the North, who don't have the whole law on bonding. Even if you have been tempted in recent years to make a suggestion or a law bill in that subject, it has not come out. This reminds us that we are supported by various dierent practices, including a very important royal decree from February 9, 1798. I'll let me remind you of a inquiry I've asked and directly to the highest level. Minister here on how to implement the government's financial institutions on the rights of this directive. This discussion can best remind us that perhaps we should take a closer look at the payment of the debt market in this country. A few years ago, a committee assigned to prepare for bail and returned a proposal. The main suggestion was that when individuals put out prices of credit, the credit period during such letters was limited to 25 years, which has lasted up to 40 years. In a public discussion, such letters as the poisonous cocktail were often referred to because they are not until these letters have been paid for at least Twenty years of cutting over to the head seat. But I reiterate my admonition to consider general law on bond bonds here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator proposes this. In itself, there is no inquiry from the senator, but I would like to agree with what he said about the total law on bond. I think there's a big deal in my opinion and I'm good at that. A senator should enter. Finally, I'd like to encourage the highest. Secretary of finance to address this matter a little better. I don't see that this is an open-minded issue, i.e. that these limits will be completely lifted. We look for a letter to be published for 30 years, which has been around us. Has it, for example. Whether this discussion has been conducted at the level of the countries mentioned in the report, the need to have it even more open. It would be helpful to know in this context. Otherwise, thanks for the excellent discussion on this subject. This is an important matter, and we must be careful with my judgment and as mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u70	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent discussion on this subject. I'd like to add it to the discussion here at the end that this particular matter is only about the possibility of length of state bonds. Here people have set aside the importance of being careful about government matters. Then you have to include in your discussion that in terms of debt development and goals, we have a law on public financial matters that not only puts us in debt but also ensures that we look to five years each time and plan how we see debt developing. Then the debt control is another matter. Since we have largely improved financial resources, we can expect that it will be much easier to give to governments at any given time. We aim for sustainable development in the state budget and the official financial laws there are the guidelines, except for the rules of debt or financial regulations. When discussing the importance of being careful about the debt, I think it's good to consider this ground level that is a sustainable government policy, not to be in the corner. There is no need to publish a bond unless people have accumulated so much debt that they somehow have to finance it into the future. We've been paying off debts, and we've even come to the point where the state's debt ratios begin to reach the point where we're due in the coming years or years at least. ask where the lower limit is for that version. Then I'm saying, "Where is the lower limit of how much Kingdom editions are going to be kept on the market each time? " Where does this lower limit lie? If the government's going to be an active market member to form some growing foot for the bigger companies, and then I'm both looking at public parties and private parties, then there's a lower limit to the debt we need to keep in mind. And just to be perfectly clear, I think we could have a positive net position. We might actually have paid off our debts so that our debts had grown bigger than our debt, but we were going to keep some versions alive. It's just great that we're getting closer to the time when we can start to think about these things. This was shown in our discussion that we have become net owners, the foreign market has become a positive foreign ground. It is also a major turning point. The fact that we are here ten years after the tremendous events that we had in connection with the collapse of financial companies are approaching in this way, I believe that I am very different and give evidence of the success that this nation has achieved over a decade. But despite the fact that this will eventually be the dominant part of the State's debt, i.e. Questions such as: How is the State run? What is the pursuit of wealth? What long - term programmes have been made for the development of debt? What effect do these factors have on the rates of loans in general? Nevertheless, there is reason to discuss what is listed here, which is whether there is a need to worry that in the future people will go into too long editions at some point. Then I just want to have said it very clearly, so that it's documented, that we're not opening more of the state editions of bond bonds unless you appreciate it to be more favorable to state funds than to have 25 years of age or shorter versions. Thank you for your excellent conversation. I'm sure they'll give the Commission all the details, e.g. in this process of consultation, which I traced between the Ministry and the Federal Bank, calling out to the experts in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u71	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to legalize an electronic display of tax stress and pay. The bill suggests that e - mailing will become the principle when it comes to reporting tax stress and paying taxes. By taking additional steps in the adjustment that has been under way in recent years in the field of electronic administration and in demand from the environment because of the increasing use of electronic media. For this reason, we can review the major step taken on May 30. When eco-efficiency of income tax was permitted. The proper effects of electronic publication must be observed when notification of stress is published in an electronic field that appears to have occurred. The bill suggests that the law on car bills, genetic taxes, insurance fees, financing taxes, oil and kilometers, rural income companies, property sales, ships'sales, and finally legislators will be changed in order to send messages of stress into the local electronic area of the Islands. The objective of the bill remains to increase the interest of currency even more so and contribute to the improvements in government management, allowing currency to draw up reports of stress that most people pay under electronic services. By falling away from the arrangement to report tax stress and to pay in a letter way, the government's operating costs will be dissipated by about 120 million. K. every year. That sum is the sum of the combined cost of posting charges by a broadcast of tax stress and pay. However, the evaluation has not taken into account official economic management of document care and expansive reporting that also reduces the cost of the institutions, at least long term. A respectable president. I refer to the good results we have already accomplished in that area. I think it is right to assume that the important communications between the state and people in the country, and the business, which take place in terms of tax issues, have flunged the path, as it were, first with the electronic contributions that have become a principle of absolute importance, and that there is no way of being used in dealing with the tax authorities. The electronic income taxation I referred to was successful, so I believe that there is nothing wrong with us taking additional steps with what is suggested here. Similarly, people have been getting used to it in the private market, i.e. Not only in dealing with governments but also with the various agencies, a company, that business is moving to electronic form. A close - knit example is financial companies, but it would be easy to specify many other such cases. The management board must follow. There is only one advantage, the balance of savings, the cost, but I'd like to say that the service there can become much more efficient, safer, and more modern. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u72	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize an electronic display of tax stress and pay, a bill that may not be important, but that's very important to me. It says that Iceland is in a ideal position to use information technology, and it is indeed true, since almost all Icelanders have good access to the Internet, both communication and knowledge are human communications and experience in making extensive use of the Internet. That's why I'm so glad we're going on this way. It is noted in the report that this is an estimated 120 million each year alone. That's quite a figure. From what I understand, the state pays about 500 million dollars today. K. magazines every year, so there's a lot to work on in terms of money. I'll agree with the highest. Minister that this is not just about saving money, we provide much better service by moving it to the Internet and making it available to all whenever it suits them through the Internet. It's like the highest. A minister came into them had long periods of time, and particularly the tax of first - nation countries, to use the Internet properly and to have electronic administration. In this regard, we are usually very effective in international comparison. We, though, lost a considerable amount of weight over some years. If I have found the right numbers, a respectable president, then we are today in the 19th place when it comes to a so - called, with president's permission, it's called the English EGDI or an E-Goverment Development Index, which is some kind of evolutionary standard for electronic administration. In fact, there we have improved, for in 2016 we were in our 27th place, but this year we are up to 19, which is certainly a positive one. I think Denmark's sitting in the first seat. Of course, I want like most people in general that Iceland is in its top title. That's why I want to encourage the highest. Ministers continue in this, as well as in other matters where we can apply ourselves to electronic administration, as it involves a lot of government savings and much better service to companies and individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u73	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u74	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the registration law and evaluate real estate, no. 6/2001, with subsequent changes. The bill includes the addition of a more comprehensive definition of Iceland's National Publications Index for access to data in terms of the evaluation of real estate. With law No. 83/2008, of the change in real estate law, was authorized to use a so-called real estate investment method when the real estate value is unknown. Iceland's national records hold a lease that will be used for this purpose. This file does not fully perform its role, as there is no legal obligation for contracting contracts, and it does not guarantee that all property owners will provide rent or rent information to the Agency. On the basis of Regulation No. 577/1989 allowing lawyers to get reimbursed credit for building and renovating housing. Iceland's National Constitution has already been based on the 3rd issue. Twenty-two. the law on registration and assessment of real estates access to tax returns to verify information about property or to obtain such information. However, there has been little doubt as to whether this authority will also contribute to tax pay, such as the previously mentioned contracts. The bill says that Iceland's National Registry will be given clear clearance to access these data, but it will improve the basis of domestic assessment by means of income and contribute to the most righteous registration and consistent with the implementation of real-estate assessments. It should be specifically noted that the calculation of real estate assessments using the income method involves not only contracts but also other factors, such as location and location. The bill was employed at the Ministry in cooperation with Iceland's National Registry. It was published on the Ministry's Web for reviews and received two comments from the Union of Icelandic rural society that welcomed the bill and, on the other hand, from the Business Association, which made comments on real estate assessments using trade and employment practices. It was estimated that the use of revenues was not compatible with the 27th requirement. law on registrations and real estate assessments, No. 6/2001, and the implementation would be equal to 40 and 77 st. The constitution. The Ministry cannot agree with this argument by the Association of Employment, including with a reference to the U.S. Supreme Court in case of No. 477/2015 and an executive for the Allegis case of No. 9024/2016. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u75	Mr. President. I felt right and obliged to come up here and explain the doubts I have with the bill. True, this is not the first time that the bill of this material enters this hall. That was impossible to accomplish, nor was there any discussion of it at the time, in the Council of 145th. My doubts about the bill is, in effect, that I warn that national and national records and really other sources - these are about not just the national records but, rather, the heads of institutions or other sources - are a natural access to tax returns and documents, as stated in Article 1. The bill. I feel like I'm going a hell of a long way around here. I warn of the precedent given here, to allow in this case another institution a direct access, as I understand this, to tax returns and their documents. I would have considered better and more reasonable that there was a law on the law that the government agencies needing such information, as it is here to ensure that a national record is obtained, and I believe it is important for them to receive such information, which would be done on the basis of some kind of service contract, so that the information would be secured by the government taxpayer rather than by direct access to institutions or other external organisations. It's a certain prince's gesture I'm trying to hold on to. I'm going to point it out to you. General and Education Committee to consider whether the two-way approach cannot be made, i.e. to ensure a national file needs information but in this way that the tax manager, the governor, is assigned to perform the required information but not to access it in the expected way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u76	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill for a new traffic law. The rest of the bill has been on the drawing board for some time, starting a full reexamination of current legislation in May 2017. The basis for that work was an earlier bill, a committee appointed by the then secretary of transportation, on November 1, 2007. Thus, it could be said that a total re-evaluation of traffic laws has actually been done for over a decade. If the bill now becomes a law, it is intended to replace current traffic laws, No. 50/1987, long since it was time to revise. A bill that included an overall review of current traffic laws was first submitted to the 138th legislature, in 2009,2010, by the then Minister of Ministers, but not to be completed. It was submitted to the 139th legislature by any change, but it also failed to be completed in that council, followed by a review of it to the local Ministry of State, both in view of the comments that had been received by the General Transport Committee and the development of traffic issues. A revised bill was submitted to a 140th but was not then recommended and thus received no physical treatment at that time. Finally, the same bill was asked for a 141th but was not granted. The bill presented here is the result of broad consultations with key stakeholders and the general public. The laws and initial assessments of influence were published on the Transport Ministry website in January, where public and stakeholders were requested. Thirty-two reviews were received for this. As a result, in February the Board of Management Board published an overview of a bill along with a report that allowed the Agency to make changes in the terms of the bill and to comment on unique articles in the till a column. A total of 52 reviews of the bill letters received from stakeholders, institutions, and individuals. After reviewing reviews, the overall bill for a new traffic law was published by the government's consultations in July, when the Ministry received less than 30 narratives from which they became the prime bill recommended today. Extensive consultations with stakeholders and the public are particularly important when it comes to traffic laws that affect so much or less the public. Everyone has to know them, and everyone feels that way. In the more than a century of automobiles being driven through the roads of the country, far too many people have died or were crippled by traffic. Since 1915, this has not been the case for one year, since no one has died in a traffic accident. Significant success has been achieved, but better if it is to be achieved. The growing number of international tourists and subsequent growths in the roads of the country have resulted in more important traffic security issues than ever before. Thus, it is especially important that procedures involving traffic are clear and fall to serve the goals found in Article 1. The bill. Sea and air bans have been so eliminated and have had hopes so that in the future the same story can be said of road deaths. Improving order is one step toward that goal. Now I'm going to explain to you some of the newcomers and changes that are involved in this vast bill. First, consider the setting up of a target paragraph in Article 1. The bill, but there has been no traffic laws yet. The objective of the bill is large, by permission of the President, to protect the life and health of road users by increasing traffic security in terms of equality between road users, irrespective of transport, and to take into account environmental considerations in the planning of the road. In accordance with the view to more important to walking and cycle users, the definition of an unscheduled roadfarer is given by permission of the president: A non-efficient vehicle structure, such as walking and rolling traffic, including road transport Driver and driver of a motorcycle and a vehicle. Then the term "walkwayway " is defined and set out rules that apply to walkways. Thus, motor vehicles in such streets are generally banned outside the emergency vehicles and the driving services of disabled persons, as well as those allowed by warehouses at certain times. The management of current legislation has been reviewed in full reviews and regulations about bicycle riding. It is suggested that children's helmet duties be now attached to traffic laws, but so far it has only been found in regulations. The bill suggests that the rules about driving in circles that have been established in this country will be established. According to the rules, the driver on the outer circle will give the person who rides on the inner circle a priority out of a phone morning. It's the bill to find a prohibition on driving against red light, but so far, such a prohibition has been found only in the Regulation. Since it is a fundamental safety principle, it is appropriate to attach it to traffic laws. One of the main indicators of the bill is that the limit of the authorised alcohol load in the driver's blood is proposed to be reduced from 0.5 Prommills to 0.2 Prommills. The decrease in the level of alcohol in a driver's blood is sending a clear message to drivers and society as a whole about driving and drinking just not going together. However, the amount of alcohol between 0.2 and 0.5 Promills is not expected to be affected but only guilty. An increasing problem is driving under the influence of drugs and drugs. Therefore, the bill assumes that in each Regulation there will be an incompetent limit for various medicinal products. Is this the course that has been going to Norway with good results? Such a law is not found in the current law. Small devices are becoming more and more common, and hardly a person today who does not use them to some extent. The use of these devices in traffic can be even more dangerous than using cell phones, which makes the term a brilliant device defined in the bill and a clear command against the use of such devices, as well as a mobile telephone control device. Police patrols to monitor driving vehicles to passenger and freight transport more than 3.5 tons that the allowed total body weight is increased and made clearer. This will monitor drivers' time of driving and rest, equipment, size, weight, and loading machinery. You can find a new note in the bill that people can request permission to test automotive vehicles. The requirement for such tests is expected to be strictly regulations. Is this the first step in implementing new technologies and new devices, opening the possibility that such vehicles will be tested in an exceptional setting. In line with the general increase in fines presented earlier this year, with a new directive on fines and other treatments due to violations of traffic laws and regulations set in accordance with these rules, no. 288/2018, the bill assumes that a maximum of possible fines will be increased from 300,000 dollars. of 500,000. The term "pearrior" is defined in the bill, and so stated that in several places it is placed in parentheses after the term "smooth. " Thus it is emphasized that the duties of the individual are derived from the duties laid on the registered owner of the vehicle according to the bill. The manager, according to the bill, is the one with the approval of the owner of a vehicle. A person does not qualify unless it is registered as such in a driver's file, e.g. As part of a contract with a state-of-the-art lease company. Is this to emphasize that the rights and responsibilities of the individual are actually based on the agreements of the owner and the manager and are endeavoring to eliminate the legal uncertainty of those who have the means to drive without being registered to their owners. It is suggested that rural governments and highway roads make it possible for highways to limit or temporarily prohibit traffic in or areas where pollution is above medical limits or that it is considered likely to happen. Limitations can include These include changes in maximum speed, limitation of road traffic, or limitation of public traffic. It is not an open source for road users but, as the bill specifically states, it must be restricted or restricted. It is suggested that under certain circumstances, when a violation is investigated in a law enforcement camera, allow the owner or driver of a vehicle to be punished objectively because certain conditions are met. Thus, in some cases the owner of a vehicle would be given responsibility rather than a driver. The bill assumes that a registered owner or driver of a motor vehicle must be allowed to pay a fine if a violation is taken in a law enforcement camera, i.e. Fast driving or driving against red light. The suggestion of objective responsibility applies only to fractures that are not of concern. If your driving is concerned with points in your driver's license record, it's a classic police matter. The bill stipulates the terms of XIII. the current road layer and insurance insurance insurance will be removed, considering that there will be special requirements for car insurance. However, provisional regulations assume that the chapter will retain its value until new laws take place on law-ed driving insurance. Economic and economic ministers are expected to contribute to the next bill of the material. I stress that it is very important to have a traffic bill and a bill to legalize the car insurance policy at the same time pass through the council, where there is a review of current traffic laws. Mr. President. I've mentioned here the lead of the bill. There is no time to tell about all the changes included in the bill, but it is clearly explained in the general report that follows the bill. It is important to achieve a successful review of national traffic laws. This is the code of laws that affect most, if not all, Icelanders and anyone who stays here shortly or longer. It is, of course, that opinions change over unique developments in legislation as such. However, it is my opinion that with the approval of the bill recommended here, Iceland will be equal to the nations we choose to compare ourselves to the total traffic laws and traffic security. Finally, I would like to stress that many important changes are planned on the driving law if the bill is a law. I note that the bill is suggested to be effective on January 1, 2020. Is it so important that this bill, which has been built for many years and includes significant changes in legislation directly or indirectly to the public throughout the world, is presented in a wide variety of ways before it becomes valid? Mr. President. I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u77	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for excellent passage. There's a lot of good on the bill, an important newcomer that's right in there. I'm glad you're here. I just wanted to come in with it for the highest. Minister on driver registration and presented at 72 st. in the bill. It says that changes in vehicles are allowed to be recorded in a vehicle file. Change limit permission to vehicle registration. I wondered if it would be right for me to have it a little clearer, and I especially want to mention damaged automobiles. Would it not be proper to have the law on how to register a damaged vehicle? I know it's under regulations, and I'm sure it's in the modified form of the bill. It is known that insurance companies dissolve vehicles because of damages and then sell them back at auction. Then the vehicles will probably take the traffic back. I don't think the insurance companies are paying any particular attention to this, and I don't think that many of them do. The question, then, is, What is the minister making a living in it? Would it not be preferable to intervening this with regard to damage vehicles in the law itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u78	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. As I went over, the traffic law is quite broad and has many factors to do with it. To date, nothing has been discussed only in the CIA procedures but in the setting, as well. A senator came on, a particularly burdensome but necessary intervention felt it proper to place such authority on the traffic law. As a result, the law is new. Dissociation refers to a special registration in a driver's file that goes past the Transported Room. In the registry of change space, there are limited sources for new registration, registration of owner's exchange and/or traffic registration. Of course, if a member of the Committee believes that this is not sufficiently clear, nor is the report provided, it may be better considered during the treatment of the committee, trying to explain it further. But I think that there is clearly improvement in putting that law into the law rather than merely keeping it a procedure at the seeing room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u79	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister responds and agrees with him that it is good and that it is important to keep within the space of change. I'd also like to agree with the highest. Ministers that damage vehicles should be discussed within the Committee. I've asked you a question to the highest level. Minister on damage vehicles, and it's interesting to have an answer to that question. I don't think there's a pot broken in the way of that, for example. sell damaged vehicles on auctions, how insurance companies seem to self-imposed in some cases to register damaged cars or to be a damaged vehicle, there is a difference. So I think it's important to be discussed with the committee whether it is not necessary to intertwin it in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u80	A respectable president. It was all right. A senator came up and repeated this, since I forgot to answer the first question. As far as I know, my predecessor was put in charge of things. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson on that exact point. It tells us that in order to get a damaged vehicle registered again, the repair needs to be performed at a validated shop. Nevertheless, it may be considered both on the committee and in a clear answer to the question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u81	A respectable president. I was in a working group on a review of drugism. One thing we dealt with is drugs, how it is defined. In the current law, it is defined as saying that if a metabolite of substance is found in the urine, the person is guilty of substance driving, total nonsense to me. I was going to do it in a talk later, and it is being fixed with this bill so that the definition becomes metabolites in the blood instead of the urine. This is in harmony with the advice the work force suggested back then. We returned a report that was followed, and I've been waiting for these issues ever since. I remember that when we were fighting with our drugs, we looked at Norway. It was the export, as I understood it, that it was actually the threshold for illegal drugs. It would not simply be that if they were found over their heads in certain physical fluids, they would be guilty, but they would be some measure. That was my choice in a talk of the highest order. The minister that in this bill is also taken into account by the Norwegian route in connection with dulling and stimulating substances, something I think is at the foundation positive. I believe the Norwegian method is the right way, so I'll just say it. We made this suggestion at the time, that drug driving would be evaluated, based on whether the metabolites were in blood or not, because it was simpler than offering something that has come on the table. I'm actually glad it's here because maybe then we'll get closer to the way I'd like to go. I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary if there's any overlap. Antidotes can be legal, stimulating drugs that are used to treat a wide range of disorders, so people can have the right to use them. [[The president calls.]] I'm wondering if there's some overlap in the two methods of assessing what a drug driving is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u82	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator here is making changes in measurements, asking for a driver's blood only. This is because it is widely accepted that when the drug or its inactive metabolite is measured only in the urine but not blood, it is generally justified to conclude that such substances were consumed, but it is no longer the case that a driver was influenced by the operating of the vehicle, i.e. He does not necessarily consider it unqualified to control it. The way they're going -- and I think it answers a question. A senator - is looking for this Norwegian way through an incompetent limit, including for indications from the surgeon general. Six. Section 48. The bill is authorized by a minister to address the incompetent limits of drug abuse, not necessarily illegal drugs, as a whale. A senator pointed to, i.e. when a driver is considered unsuitable for the management of a vehicle due to medication. This refers primarily to the consumption of legal prescription medicinal products and the provision is based on the comparable regulations found in the Norwegian traffic laws. It is assumed that in this Regulation the maximum amount of certain medicines in the blood as well as the maximum prescribed amount will be required. Thus, it would be possible to prevent people who are prescribed large amounts of drugs that can affect driving ability, operating motor vehicles. I don't see quickly that there's an overlap between us. While this is primarily addressed to the prescribed medicinal product, there are boundaries to be set and evaluations. This would be done by the health system and a minister's Regulation would be based on such definitions on boundaries. I agree with what. A senator has shown himself to be far better than the ways we have been going before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u83	A respectable president. We are resisting drug abuse because substances have, or some drugs at all, negative effects on the ability to drive or operate vehicles. But it is also true that some substances that are used as drugs, although not strictly illegal, are also used for medical advice. The difference between drugs and drugs is not necessarily extremely clear. A virus can be a drug, and drugs can be a drug, it does not contradict it. What I wondered, in view of the Norwegian route being gone, which I rejoice about, is whether it is necessary to have this definition in the 50th paragraph. the bill that a driver is considered to be under the influence of addictive and drug abuse, and unsatisfactory to control vehicles if a breakdown product is found in the blood above the head. That's where I see a big difference between the Norwegian method and the one we've been using here, i.e. that we ask in the current law against urine, and in the bill against blood, whether there are metabolites above the heads of certain wallets. The Norwegian route asks how much. That's it. Then there are the standards that can be looked up, followed by the Norwegians. I mention, for example, the active substance in cannabis, which is not used for medical purposes in Iceland, not knowing that, at least not in public. I wondered, " Is it necessary to go to a special distinction between illegal drug degradation and the thresholds for drugs that adversely affect driving performance regardless of whether they are legal or illegal? ' It's probably about people not driving under the influence of the chemicals, but it's probably not the role of a traffic law to make a special distinction there, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u84	A respectable president. Even if we were. A senator would agree on many fine things in this law, I don't think we'll agree on this point. Of course, this law is sending a very clear message, to form in terms of changes in alcohol consumption, alcohol consumption, and, to 50. ., about illegal drugs affecting a person's ability to drive, and we don't want to have such parties at the wheel. On the other hand, it is sometimes necessary to prescribe legal drugs that can also affect, and it is important to set that limit. That's what this Norwegian route is, this incompetent order that we have to issue. But I think it is very important that the message is clear, at any rate, from the government's hand that it is one thing to define legal boundaries and to try to find the right ways - indeed, there can be persons who are deeply influenced by these drugs and therefore are not to operate vehicles - and other things that we don't want any use of illegal substances or instead of wine and then sit under the wheel or control of vehicles.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u85	V.E.G. President. I come up here to celebrate the fact that this matter has come before the council. It's been a long time after a long process in which the overall review of the current law takes a long turn but is now in here. I think that's very good. It is extensive and has many surfaces to do with it. I would like to address a few aspects of this matter. In view of the extensive consultation and a number of reviews have been received - if I had just noticed a total of 52 reviews already received at the bill - I assume that there will be a good study of a committee at the council. These are points and issues that we need to keep tight in our arms and have a good conversation and consultation, as is important to us. If I may quote the words of the highest. Minister is this case that everyone knows, and everyone has an opinion. We're all experts, we're all travelers, we all travel around, and we have a lot of opinion about how we do it. In fact, we travel in different ways according to the country. Some are here just at the southwest corner, where we have a completely different situation than in the more scattered settlements, some of which are more used to driving. We have some perspectives on this matter. But it's good too, and that's how it should be. There has been far too much damage in traffic. Too many people have been killed in traffic. That's not acceptable. We've been successful in the security issues when it comes to accidents and other sea accidents as well as about the flight. But we have to do better in traffic, and I hope this is part of it. There have been some steps that have been taken, and we have had success, as measured by standards. It has been measured and evaluated, so it is very positive. The objective of the bill is wide and large, taking into account the security factors. I'd like to read it here, with president's permission: ▪ The aim of the law is to protect the lives and health of road users with increased traffic security, where equal measures are taken between road users, regardless of transport, and to take into account environmental considerations when planning traffic. As a result, construction work on roads and around them has become quite different but not long ago. We have a greater variety of travel styles, and we have more people on motorized vehicles, small vehicles, wheels, and so forth, we also have pedestrians who need to be taken into account. I'm not going to have this case far, but one is to define the concept of a walkway. This is of great importance when more people are equipped with motor motorcycles and light -weight vehicles in the neighborhoods designed for pedestrians. I think it's very important that we have clear rules about that, that pedestrians are protected too. This can be dangerous in many places. Then there's one kind of fun thing. It's not that bad for a long time when it didn't seem too important to wear helmets when people were riding bicycles. Now you can't see a baby on a bicycle on the street or anywhere else with a helmet. That's good. In fact, information and propaganda and community effort have been made to bring it in. This is where it will be legal for children to wear helmets. I think it's fine, and I'm glad it came from below, i.e. wasn't an order from the authorities, and doesn't seem to be a matter of opinion. It's just a basic security rule, and it's good for us to put it into law. This may also be more encouraging to adults. Yet, it is far more common for people to wear helmets and to be honest with you when you come abroad and see people completely naked and without helmets. We've been successful there, and that's good. Let's celebrate. Then we come to the drug and alcohol levels in the blood. It is a good step that will be taken here, if the bill is approved, that we will reduce the amount of alcohol allowed in the driver's blood. from 0.5 down to 0.2◯. This is a clear message that we do not accept driving and drinking at the same ceremony, as it were. I think it's a brilliant step and clear. Of course, we are not to drive drunk; we are clearly clear. But there is something else. There are incompetent boundaries associated with a variety of medicines. That was an interesting contribution from what happened. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson on illegal and illegal drugs. I think the message needs to be clear. Under the influence, we do not drive. We don't sit under a wheel but sober, whether or not we've taken drugs in liquid form, chemical or tablet form, or whatever. It should be clearly established. I think that's an excellent piece of advice. Then there's a lot of modern clever devices. They have become much more common than before, at least after 1987, when the laws took place that we now live in. I think it's fine if we deal with this and it's all better about it. We're not just talking about phones. We're talking about other types of smart devices and tools that are so necessary for us and we need to be in the loop forever. You're supposed to be full of shit and don't mess with your phone while you're driving. That's how we're supposed to do, isn't it? But there's one thing completely new, about the self-employing vehicle. Many feel that it is in a faraway future, but that is not the case. There are new words on that device, and it gives evidence that we are looking to the future. This opens a way for new devices to be tested. It's important. Conditions in Iceland are often special. It's very important that we deal with this and that we succeed with the review because it's a law code that affects all of us, it won't be stated too often, and anyone who stays here. We need a clear framework, clear rules, but we also need to be in our time and know what he is and actually imagine the future, but what will happen if we are not in a position to do so. We set high goals, and we should set the goal of being equal to the nations that are foremost in traffic matters. It's time we took this step. I hope the bill goes well through the council and there's gonna be some objective discussion and good treatment on the committee. It is long time for us to put in new laws that we need to renew, for we truly live in songs since 1987. However, times have changed, and major developments have taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator named alcohol and drug driving, natural, and rejoices that it is being tightened. So do I. But I am very happy about the change that appears to be in the 50th grade. the difference between how a drug drive is defined, as I did earlier, and not about to tire out. A senator will do so rather than introduce it in a talk that will follow. Hv. A senator mentioned, like the highest. Minister, the message should be clear about this. I agree, the message should be clear and the law should be clear. But if we're gonna keep it that way with illegal drugs that if there's metabolites in the blood above the person's head are considered to be under the influence of addictive drugs and, without any doubt, unable to control vehicles - and well, it's a legitimate opinion, and I understand that people think so - I'm driving drunk. 49th. it speaks of restrictions on driving, and there are limits, 0.2◯ and 1.20, and about the amount of alcohol consumed by the person in the air at a volume of 0.1 milligram in the litre of air, etc. So we're clear on that, and I hope everyone is aware of the fact, that alcohol is no less of a drug because it's legal. It also causes health problems and unbelievably stupidity and certainly impaired driving ability. If we're going to say that zero is what we want to see in blood when it comes to drugs, something I could totally accept as a valid opinion, shouldn't it be the same with alcohol? Alcohol is not better simply because it is legal, on the contrary, if anything is wrong. Shouldn't we agree? Is it reasonable to assume that the message about drinking driving is as clear as it is about drugs? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. So that in this country there is a definition of what is legal and what is illegal. Any misuse of illegal drugs is clearly a violation of the law. There must be a special penalty for that. People may be prescribed medicines for you, so they are told whether they can drive after you have taken them or not. There's something else legal. I don't think it's complicated. We're supposed to be sober under the wheel when we drive. I don't see what's wrong. Rather, it is important that we stay sober at the wheel. That's what it's about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u88	A respectable president. Yes, it is. That is why there is a definition of what it is to be sober when it comes to alcohol, the only drug that has a sacred place in our society, and not biologically. I just agree with what. A senator, and I think everyone in this room would agree that, of course, we should be sober when driving. We don't have to reason on that. We're in a hurry. However, the role of traffic laws is to reduce the risks of drivers driving under the influence of some substances, alcohol or drugs, or anything that has a negative influence on their ability to drive. I don't think it's the job of a traffic law to set a line between substances acceptable to use and which are not acceptable to use. It's, of course, the crime scene of the drug and drug laws, which I call in fact after the change, if you're going to, and have done and will. It's different to me than this. It is likely that the objective of traffic laws is, not to tell people what to put into themselves, but under circumstances and under the influence of vehicles. There are two differences. I don't think it's simple that you can say that some material is illegal and that it's legal. That's not the point. I need to reiterate my question: Can people have 0.2 Promills of this and 1.2 of other things, etc. and yet be sober, yet be sober under the wheel? The lawyer's assessment according to this bill is that it can be done. Thus, people can have some kind of substance in the body that causes stress and mental disorders and health problems and addictions and disasters, such as alcohol and other substances, and still have the ability to operate vehicles. We always put in unauthorized about alcohol, like it's a terriblely peaceful and incredibly high substance, which it's not. [[The president calls.]] I have to ask again: Shouldn't we set the same values for drugs and drugs regardless of whether taking drugs is legal or illegal? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't have time to go into technology there, but I'd like to ask if all the drugs that have a negative impact on people's ability to drive, whether the material is legal or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u89	The President reminds the senators to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u90	V.E.G. President. I have to admit, I've lost my strand and I've stopped understanding. We're discussing a few layers of traffic. Reduce the allowed measurable limit of alcohol and drug abuse from 0.5 Promills to 0.2. 0.2 Prommills depend on what I'm getting very low, very small, and can be some point in your body away from drinking alcohol. I just don't know it well enough, I have to admit. I don't quite understand a question. A senator, whose message is clear: We should not be influenced when entering a vehicle and controlling it. That's what it's all about, isn't it? It doesn't matter whether the materials are legal or illegal, there are other laws that deal with them. But if I go, or probably someone else, under the influence of illegal drugs, the law is clearly being violated. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It tells itself that there must be some consequences. But the message is clear: Edru under the wheel. Does it matter which subject is involved, whether it is alcohol or something else? I don't think I trust myself any further in the discussion than I thank you for an excellent answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u91	Mr. President. The new traffic laws are intense. I'm not going to go down to any of them, and most of all, in this discussion about propmits, but only brings the attention of 85 st. this song bill as the highest. A minister made clear and discussed air pollution. It is reported that rural or road construction is permitted to limit or ban traffic when pollution is above certain limits of health, if we can put it that way, or there is a risk of it. Of course, for this to happen, there are some data and a combination of pollutants, and some measures are written that can be taken. You can, for example. decrease maximum speed or limit traffic, etc. The minister can then make further provision for this subject, e.g. by nail tire, when it can be used, and when it can not be used. The main issue is good air quality is rights, some say human rights in communities where contaminated traffic is prevalent. It is not an issue to review just what is involved when we talk about pollution from vehicles. A loose passage tells me when it comes to hovering and rough dust, i.e. slightly larger than these almost invisible particles, which we called hovery, are mineral fragments from the rock that is part of the malbak, it is, of course, expected to be bound to the fragment. And there are tar particles, there are metals made of nails and other, salt where salt is high, and there are plastic or rubber particles coming out of cycled themselves. Now it has become so that tires are essentially plastic materials, not natural rubber anymore. And then there's soot, especially diesel engines, and brakes. I keep it for myself because it's been studied, and the odds are quite different. Of course, you would agree that this is a frightening woolen garment, and it is of no benefit, and it is very important to cut it down as much as possible. Then come the gases, i.e. Carbon oxides that are brown, and when we see the brown cloud hovering over the town on the clouds of flames, especially in the winter, that's what we see. So it's the nitric oxides. Carbon dioxide is involved in the burning of these mineral fuels, which, of course, is a greenhouse product, but it is harmless to us because we breathe it out. Then it is carbon monoxide, which is toxic, as is known of all who have seen movies where people take their lives in closed garages and pass the cars. Then there's some trace stuff I'm not going to go over. I mention it here because when we talk about air pollution, we're actually talking about a wide variety of fleas, so to speak. Here, the effects of nailing are very clear because they add to all the things I've been calling. Then there is the effect of salt. It is not so that salt dissolves tar or something similar. What salt does is that if snow is on one side of the tire, on the road, or on the road, and on the salty side of the road, it's only a child's physics. You know what happens when the liquid that has been frozen, let's say "slee," "water, or snow, that has melted" gets the liquid out by 10%. Then comes the thaw, and it's washed off the streets, or whatever the next snow comes, it can be the same day, and it's salty again, and it's again twenty-two degrees high, and that's how it goes for weeks over the winter. You can imagine the freezing temperatures and cold weather on the streets. This is one of the most highly underestimated issues of air pollution. Well, that's exactly what I'm talking about, 85 str. which includes progress in this code of law, this bill, reminds us that there is an important need to work on air quality in urban areas. I'll tell you why, it's the energy exchange. We need to make sure that we use less and less fossil fuels. Then it is the use of nails, trying to keep it at its best. Besides, it's the salt use for obvious reasons, I was referring to it, both because it's hovering and as a result it adds stress to the streets. Public transportation comes in there, too. The more they are, the more the so - called "noscious" traffique is, as it is called in a foreign land, the less pressure we have on our lungs and, of course, on the streets itself. I'd like to before I open my case to warn of one thing I've heard and seen in the media, and someone's thought of getting plastic mixed in malaria. You know how malaria is made, made from rock, it's been used glass, it's been used full of glass, but now it's time to add plastic particles to the soup. You can imagine what happens if plastic particles are on the surface of the streets with the pressure I've mentioned, nails, or whatever, that we're just creating a bunch of microspheres that either hits us or goes to sea, lands in a sea with a spill off the streets. I have seldom heard such a ridiculous and unacceptable idea, mixing plastic, torn plastic, hard plastic, or chess, or anything human would like to have in malaria in Iceland and anywhere in the world. But to say, it's a good forward bill that tastes like it, and I'm gonna back it up the way I can.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u92	Mr. President. After decades of working with law No. The 50/1987, i.e., traffic laws, as it were, begin to love them naturally. You know most of the laws, and often you have to deal with them and apply them in your life. Hence, personal feelings are related to the review of the entire law, as is now, and some of the old laws get new numbers. Of course, in recent legal procedures, many recognizances have been implemented over the past few years and have been occurring in the administrative system and, indeed, here at the General Assembly, have been dealt with because some attacks have been made to set up new traffic laws and have been published here at least Four times at four conferences after 2007, but not to be paid back. In effect, the bill displayed here has been given a mass cover, for it is largely based on the work that then took place, although considerable material changes were made, as the report says. The objective of the bill is to increase traffic security, to bring traffic laws to modern prospects, to correct blurred legal regulations, to adjust our road laws to our international commitments, and to take into account changes in transport practices, such as public transportation and riding. It is not all listed, since the bill is also intended to establish fundamental principles in the specific areas of the law, which were previously in the power of the Minister, to expand further by Regulation. A special reason to rejoice in that effort, for it has always been a thorn in the eyes of the court that a minister is given extensive authority to administer a penalty warrant. At the same time, the objective of the bill is to be celebrated, with the aim of implementing regulations more clearly than ever before. Finally, one aim is to make suggestions for the change in materials for the violation of fractures, making them more efficient and more effective in preventing them. Mr. President. In recent decades, the number of road accidents has decreased, and there have been 1,1233 driving accidents in the past ten years, each year, compared with twice as many people in the previous years. This trend is attributed to decreased speed, better safety equipment, and increased use of alcohol, as well as to the emphasis on improving driving capacity. There, too, it plays on safer vehicles and better traffic initiatives and more preemptive work. However, it is not the same with the number of people who are seriously injured in road accidents. The results have not been the same as those of the fatal accidents. It is noteworthy that most of them crash on highways in rural areas. The evidence I'm about to recommend now is that I never too often know how necessary it is for us to stay awake and keep outside a more powerful general law enforcement system of the country and not detract from it. Then I also want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest power. A minister for the proliferation of speed and surveillance cameras that I think will be most effective in keeping the speed down on the sightings of which they are located. We need to do all we can to reduce the number of severe road accidents. In this regard, I would also like to point out a change in reality about driving under the influence of drugs. The environment is much different from that of a decade ago, and it is necessary to assist the police in combating the dangers faced by drivers under the influence of various drugs. Now that I've started to discuss traffic security, I have to mention a foreign driver's license, but in 63 p.m. The bill is a minister assigned to set rules in that subject. In recent years, the environment has changed dramatically when tourists from faraway countries come here with driving privileges in their own country, sometimes based on a completely different set of requirements than we are used to. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to make a thorough examination in this regard, since this is a massive traffic security issue. Mr. President. I haven't examined this bill, so it's 118 pages, I think, but I'd like to mention a few more things. First, I'd like to be happy to know that the rules of revocation of driving rights, such as the 64th paragraph. The bill, being made clearer than the chief's preliminary clearances, would have to be irrefutable. Also, I'd like to name 101 str. the bill where a license is expected to deprive a driver of a passenger and transport vehicle driver's license to drive their cars will be thirdly advised to violate road and rest time regulations. There I feel that there are far too much money and that fines enough to be handled with which to prevent these offenses. Just at the end of the day, I'm going to talk about the 37th pars. The bill which is the same article in the old law to my delight, i.e. by speed of speed. I miss what I don't see on the bill that it doesn't provide a comparable access warrant for violations of traffic speed, as in drunk driving. For 100th. The bill consists of a set of repairs for drunk driving violations, which have a preconceived license to drive and detoxification and fines being increasing after re-establishment. It is not the same as when it comes to violations of speed, and I miss it. It wasn't in the old law, I'm not saying it's a change, I'm saying I miss it's not on the bill. I think it's necessary. It is totally unusual for a person to be informed of driving a violent rush to get taken and taken for one month and to get some fines. Then, after six months, he gets the same punishment if he is at the same rate that can be repeated. Of course, there is some general view of a driver's conduct, and it can be used harder wood laws than there are mere general factors. Here I am referring to a special repercussive effect of repeated violations in terms of fast driving that I miss in the law. I would like to encourage a review.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u93	A respectable president. People do not have the right to operate vehicles, they only have the authority to drive vehicles. That is why we have specific requirements for such activities. I'm not a fan of traffic myself, and I feel a little crazy to drive a car over my head, let alone under the influence of chemicals, so I'm just saying that and I'm in a lot of trouble with car culture and car traffic. It's just a personal opinion that I wanted to throw in front of me to annoy those who are against people who are against cars. There's a lot of good in this bill. I think it's very good to be tightened for various ways, such as using telephones in cars and using smart equipment while driving a car or operating vehicles. It's a behavior that really bothers me, for two reasons. First, it is the insecurity that this causes. You can tell by the way you drive when someone's talking on the phone or something like that, it's gonna be ridiculous. Second, because people find it easy to convince themselves that they themselves are capable of operating vehicles, as if not on the phone. It's just the phone, you're just finishing some conversation, doing something really small. I'm very irritated when people think they have a very profound biological element that makes us unable to operate vehicles. By the way, I think it's very positive that alcohol and drug driving regulations are intensified and that the standards for alcohol abuse are reduced. I think it's very positive, and that's what supports me. I feel relatively crazy, as I say, to drive sober, let alone under the influence of alcohol, legal, or illegal. I answered only the highest. Minister and second only. A senator driving under the influence of drugs, as shown in the bill. I know this isn't something most in this room sees as the key point in the discussion of traffic laws. I must say, though, that I am a member of the Pirantar Party, and I also volunteered. to review especially the preposterous drugism that has been around for decades here. In this bill, there is something that concerns them in a very profound way. A virus is part of human culture here as it is elsewhere. They are. We may resent them, and we may try to keep the arrangement so that most people are not harmed and are most unlikely to be harmed by these chemicals. The policy taken in Western civilization is called a penalistic policy, sometimes rightly mentioned by me as the drug war. This drug war has led to terrible consequences for human rights. Here, too, in Iceland. I don't use the word human rights violation lightly, I don't use it unless I'm sure that I can argue with such a statement, but in the current law there is what I'd like to mean to be a clean and specific violation of human rights and must be that, in the opinion of everyone who believes that people should not be judged guilty for something they simply did not. That is the fundamental part of the kingdom of justice and democracy and all the freedom we should recognize. While I'm here talking about substance driving in connection with traffic laws, no one should tell me that it's not important or that it's something else or details. It's not. In current traffic laws, people are fined driving under the influence of drugs if they are found metabolised by illegal drugs in their urine. There are cases in which men are convicted of this crime, in my opinion of a very serious crime, when everyone agrees that driving was not a drug addict. If there's not a violation of human rights in a state of law, I don't know what that is. Somehow Iceland and other communities will no doubt also decide that this is all right because they've been taken for this group, this terrible group who's decided to repair their own bodies and not be told what to do with it and use so-called illicit drugs. Very well, people don't like them. Well, if people want to handle it but to do it by making a fine of things they are not guilty of, they are not to be offered. In the context of the fact that Piratar and I went to Congress to deal a little bit with these cases, I ended up in a team of staff reviews of drug policy, and we sent out a report of 12 suggestions. Suggested No. 3 is a review of road laws on drugs. That proposal is introduced by this bill. In fact, it must also be said that this change had been proposed before it could not be accomplished at the Council at that time. When we were considering this aspect of the service group, there were ways, as is often possible, and one was taking what we called the Norwegian route. Norway has various guidelines on what blood may be allowed to do and is listed under Regulation, as we do with alcohol here, unless it is a minister who decides on it, or under Regulation rather. That approach made me feel the best way of life, but we saw that it would mean that we needed to come to know what subjects will have the effect on people's driving. We saw that it may not be quite realistic, seeing as it is possible to make a simple change; to stop defined substance driving as driving with a metabolite of illicit drugs in the urine, and instead to drive with the breakdown of illicit drugs in the blood. A fundamental difference and a very important difference. Of course, I fully support this change, so I helped to recommend it with this third suggestion of the 12 delivered by the staff. I think it's very positive. Now I'm gonna let myself get tired of a little bit. Senators with a speech I may have given at the wrong time in reply to earlier. The approach to drugs to Iceland and other nations is extremely difficult to understand, and actually I believe that society's relationship with drugs is extremely sick, extremely unhealthy, not just a relationship with the idea that people use some substance that affects brain function. This is normal in itself. Icelanders have used alcohol as long as they have written stories about themselves and will likely do so longer. But when it comes to other substances that are certainly not as harmful as alcohol, society goes out and is suddenly prepared to do all the things it would not otherwise be prepared for, such as. judging people for offenses that they simply haven't committed. Then society suddenly exists in such solutions, taking up privacy, listening much more often, and taking much further to the rights of people when this culture of hatred has developed that has characterized society's relationship with drugs and drug abuse for decades. It is only getting better with time and time. As I entered the discussion and covered this bill, I noticed, especially in the talk at the top. Minister, to the Norwegian route of the aforementioned task force is introduced into the law at least In this respect, the criteria for narcotics and stimulants are set. I think it's the right way, let's be absolutely clear. I'm all for both of the changes that are found in 49. And the 50th parr. The bill. But just to discuss it, I wondered, " Why in the world do we view illicit drugs differently than legal drugs in the traffic laws, such as alcohol is not a drug? ' In what way is it not a drug? What is the result of illicit drugs that alcohol does not? Doesn't alcohol pick addiction? Does it not choose health problems, physical and spiritual ones? Is that not the case with violence? Isn't it insane, mental illness? It's a mess with families? Doesn't it ruin people's lives? Isn't that death choice? A respectable president. Yes, alcohol is as much drugs as any. It has this strange cultural place, probably because we've had it so long that our culture knows alcohol relatively well. Most people know what a threesome is, people know what blister is, people have some personal reference to what is too much at a party, what social situation it is appropriate to consume it, etc. In fact, this varies and, let's face it, fortunately. I wondered, " Why do we want this to be separated? ' There is a law on how much alcohol can be found in a driver's blood before we say that he is not fit to drive. Similarly, we come up here, and we all agree that the message should be that we are sober when driving. I'd be happy to do this. No one stands up and protests, yet we want these criteria on this unbelievablely dangerous drug when it is even most popular and popular. Isn't that a little strange, Mr. Honorable President? Should we not, in fact, have the most extreme law against the drug that is most common, most likely to use and find excuses for getting a little off and then driving home? It's just a question, but I'm gonna trust you. The Environment and Transport Committee to review these issues, even though Piratars do not actually have a member on that committee, but we have an extremely busy audience. I just want to say in the end, because of what I noticed in answers given. Senators before, none of what I'm saying here is to reduce the severity of drug driving, nothing. On the contrary, I'm saying that maybe we should be as tough as driving under the influence of alcohol, but this crazy relationship that society has with alcohol and other substances seems to prevent it. I wanted to keep this completely clear because I know that when things like this are discussed frankly and openly, people are soon about to think that you're justifying something that you're not just to justify. Compare that society sometimes has a point of judging people for something they simply are not guilty of. That's wrong. We're not supposed to, and I'm glad that in this bill, there's a giant leap in the direction of stopping it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u94	A respectable president. Hv. At the end of this discussion, a senator said that in discussions about these matters, he would need to reiterate and make very clear what was being said and what was not when there was a direct discussion and openness about driving under some kind of influence, any names they might call. That's why I wanted to have this conversation with why. A senator. I have to admit, I didn't quite understand the proposal. A senator would be. I see why. A senator wants to equal driving under any kind of influence. There is already a limit on the effect on alcohol, which is not already involved in the social drugs, and here we still say is illegal. I would hold them, a respectable president, that we have two solutions, either to set limits on driving under the influence of other substances that affect or leave no limits when it comes to alcohol. Now we are in the position here that we can bring our suggestions and bring cases in the direction we want, both in the Hall of Congress and those of us on the committees. Which way does it go anyway? A senator to be gone? Or am I totally mistaken?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u95	A respectable president. I briefly mentioned it in my talk but did not get into it. When that team was working on what I was involved in reviewing the drug policy, I felt that we should take the Norwegian route. Still, it is a matter of urgency, especially since then all these criteria must, of course, be found at bedtime. They are not always known, especially because new materials are coming. There are certain structures behind it, the structures of knowledge needed to do so properly. In a perfect world, where we would not have to worry about human resources or knowledge or keeping knowledge in mind, I would want to do that way, as I wanted to in the working group, i.e. So that there were limits to all substance uses. Like I say, it would be in a perfect world. It is quite clear that it is not simply after 1◯ that you can say: Now the person is not qualified to run a car or now he is not. That is why we need to pull the line somewhere where we are relatively safe, and it is not necessarily easy to do so. In view of the fact that we do not live in a perfect world, I do not object to the route that has gone to 50. ., that drug driving is defined as driving with the breakdown of illicit drug substances in the blood. I'd like to reexamine the experience from that, for example. 1 40,520 years, see how it turns out. I don't think we should have a court case where everyone knows the person is innocent, but because of a legal definition, the subject is judged guilty as it has been. That's the main subject. I don't think it's quite cut and cut. I'd like to go the Norwegian way all the way in a perfect world. [[The president calls.]] In the same way, I feel that regardless of whether it is legal or illegal, it is the same thing with all drug use.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u96	A respectable president. I admit, I'm no expert on these matters. Perhaps it is proper to say that if there were exactly no boundaries with the effect of driving, I would be very slight. As I understand it, and as it has been established in this discussion before, there are 0.2◯ as close as we could get to having what's in English, if I get to put it down, a respectable president, by your permission, ◯zero Tolerance, that we couldn't get all lower than that. Hv. In his speech, a member of the body came to understand our attitude as a community with regard to alcohol. Whatever we may think of it, it is difficult to overlook man's culture that we have a certain attitude toward alcohol abuse that we do not have toward other substances that get us high. One other factor with alcohol is that its effect is relatively known. The level is so that it is relatively easy to find out. I feel like I'm up to it. A senator looks especially at one substance above another. We're watching new drugs come out, almost every week, what effect we don't know, not in general, and how we drive. That's why I'm wondering how to set boundaries when it comes to driving under the influence of drugs that may not exist when we have these conversations today. One thing must have to do with all the drugs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u97	A respectable president. I can quite buy it if you're as close to it as you can get to ◯zero tolerance, but isn't it the same as with other drugs? Hv. A senator also asks for more than one drug. No, I can't say it unless only in that some drugs are actually used that are very similar to legal, prescription - related substances that people use. If someone were to use a prescription to a high degree and drive under the influence of a prescription, we would not view it as less sensitive than if the person had been on illegal materials, which is being handled legally differently. As I say, I make a complete distinction between a perfect world and an imperfect one. In a perfect world, I'd like to have the criteria, since they're the most reasonable for each subject than at the same time. A senator points to new drugs very often, and in fact, in my opinion, the pressure to do so is due to the way society in general reacts to new drugs. There is constant pressure in the subworld to create new materials to deal with the legal environment, which is then updated in the way of new substances when they appear. As I said, I would support this version as it is now. I just think it's funny and a little interesting, but it's also a tiresome twin that I'm in the community with drugs and illicit drugs on the other hand, like alcohol is something special about these substances that it's not, except legal. In fact, a term we shouldn't be fond of is the one we should not be aware of. Over the years it has actually translated away with rights, gone with all the legal features, and judged as hard as possible. That's what ◯zero tolerance's generally means in the political language, at least Foreigners. Fortunately, we haven't used it much here. When it comes to illegal drugs, I wondered, " Do I want anything more than legal? ' [[The president calls.]] I don't feel that it should be any place where it's used abroad. I wish I had more time to talk about this, okay? Senator, I'm afraid I have to end this here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u98	The President's gonna tell you why. Courtesy of the United States Congress is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u99	V.E.G. President. I don't know how to say it in English. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for an excellent speech. I cut down on his feelings when he was discussing alcoholic drugs and somehow separating it or seeing it to others on this bill and on the traffic laws. I remember that in 2015 or about that time, a deputy was here. It was then a matter of delinquency on drugs. I participated in that discussion because I completely agree that taking drugs as a drug is a good step in human rights. I was one of the few who agreed with the Pirates in it. But that's different. I'd like to ask the senator about it, because he can specifically do that in his speech and in the opposite direction. I felt that I had much to do with what I was thinking. Alcohol is an alcoholic, a measure of blood, and then alcohol levels in the blood are other than alcohol. How can the senator see that there is a simple distinction between this matter? I understand exactly what the senator is saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u100	A respectable president. I don't think it's possible to make it simple. The only example I have of that is from Norway. We recommended in this report that the route that has gone on the bill would be gone because we prepared for it would be a much simpler solution. It would fix the basic problem, which is that innocent people were being judged for something they did not, and it is not possible to confirm completely that they will not be told. At any rate, though, it would be the easiest thing to achieve such an improvement. I can only refer to the data from Norway, since this is set up on a variety of subjects. But I am no more expert on it than I am in many other ways. I distinguish between the perfect world and the imperfect world. I just think it's time to point out the twin in the community when it comes to this. I hate to talk specifically about one drug, but it's just that one drug is especially in the news right now, but in Canada was authorized to sell and to use, and a god knows what can be found on cannabis, so, according to current legislation today, it's theoretically possible to fly to Canada, consume there all kinds of cannabis without breaking any laws, come home without breaking any law, drive a car without breaking any law -- yet, probably until someone comes and measures the breakers in the urine. Then you've suddenly become guilty of a crime that you might take very seriously, you know, drugs. That situation is naturally unpleasant. There is nothing certain that we can permanently prevent all such possibilities because it is, yes, biological, not all individuals. There is no simple solution. What's shown in the bill right now is certainly a big step in the right direction, so I will support it. But as I said before, I think it's perfectly normal for us to reexamine this after 10, 20 years and to think about the real impact this has had on the rights of people who are otherwise accused of crime that they have not committed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u101	The Honorable President. I thank the senator for that answer. Clearly, I need to learn the Norwegian way for the senator to come in. But I can totally agree with that, often when you hear from the news that someone has been taken under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs, it's as if it really mattered. I'm a little nervous. It's all just substance to me. I think it's nice to open up a little bit during the discussion. I agree with that. To me, I do not discern what is taking place. In my mind, there's nothing worse who smokes pot or who's had a drink, or I don't know what. But it's fine to open up the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u102	A respectable president. I'd like to be especially happy to hear you say what you're saying. A senator at the end, people who use illegal drugs are no worse than other people. Yes, it is usually expected to break the law. It is, by the way, technically not forbidden to take illegal drugs, it is strictly forbidden to keep them in their places regardless of whether they are rations or not, such a legal thing. But I think this is an incredibly important point because I don't think we'd accept it for more years, that there was a known fault in Icelandic law that made innocent people guilty of something they didn't do unless because society thinks it's okay that drug users are automatically worse than people, and that drug users shouldn't be involved in society. Of course it's not like that. And since we are talking about traffic laws, we can also be reminded that this is not a general guide on what is a healthy lifestyle or whether it is legal or not. Here we are talking about traffic security, and we should approach the matter from a specific viewpoint. Yes, the focus is certainly in the right direction, both in terms of the punishments before driving, as well as in correcting the second line defect that adversely affects people's human rights, as I considered in my speech earlier. I think a very important point is that we do not confuse these two things; what we feel about drugs or drug abuse or drug abuse; and how we strengthen the safety of people on the road to all the woes that are involved, including certainly the wishes we are going to eliminate, which are driving under the influence of drugs that have a negative impact on driving whether they are legal or illegal, popular or unpopular or whatever.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u103	Madam President. Today, there has been a particularly interesting discussion about a bill for traffic laws that we are considering. of the 120 - page publication, by which most people have not learned from the books, is defined by the members of Congress who have come up here. Because we are primarily talking about traffic security, you now understand some of the reasons why driving is being carried away. I'm not going to spend a long time in my talk, but I raised the factors about driving safely and driving when people are drinking coffee or putting on lipstick or even putting on mascara as you sometimes see under the wheel. Ask yourself, " Do I not have to specify such things as this, if not in law the possible regulations, that Is ice cream and driving a car at the same time, drink hot coffee, or put on lipstick? ' There are several other things I would like to enter on which the bill is involved. First about traffic security. I am especially glad that both pedestrians, or pedestrians, are given added weight. That will be most enjoyable, since we are trying to increase the number of people who choose the road that goes on or on foot. I think, at the same time, the bill should have very progressive training and education for both children and adults, regarding the safety of pedestrians and pedestrians. Then it is a child's driving school or the adult traffic school for teaching everyone. Of course, any possible route might be used regarding the right course and the biker walkers. I agree with the compliments that have been presented here, and at the same time, that the first time there is a law against red light. It has to be said, as it is, that I didn't have an imagination to think that there wasn't already a law, which may say a lot about it when it has to be composed of new total law. Then it turns out that what you thought was clearly in the law has only been in the regulations. There are a number of provisions that I would like to consider in more detail at 108rd. the bill that deals with maintenance rights in foreign vehicles, or the right to drive vehicles. It is said that if a motor vehicle driver is living abroad and a vehicle with a crime involving foreign records, the police can take the vehicle for fines, bills, damages, or penalties. What caught my attention in this particular arrangement, though I understood the law very well, i.e. to try somehow to ensure the interests of the people here after damage has taken place or fractures, it is that the transfuse of regulations does not apply to drivers living in Denmark, Finland, Norway, or Sweden, unless it is a cost for decommissionation. I looked up a paper with the bill, but I didn't really see an explanation, and I'd like to hear it from a minister in the latter speech, why the North countries are being taken out of parentheses. Something else caught my attention in 107th par. the bill about driving ban. That's what it sounds like, by permission of the President: ▪ The general of the police shall forbid a beginner with temporary license to drive if he has received four or more points according to a point system [...] Akoshbsin must only be applied once only in the duration of a temporary certificate. This also drew my attention because if a beginner, a young person or older, has lost his temporary certificate but is able to take back his rights by sitting back a certain time after a certain time, and then gets another temporary certificate, expected, but starts right back to breaking: Why is it passed into the law that this driving request should only apply once to the duration of the temporary certificate? You wonder: " If a person is not to be heard, don't you need to use this law more often? ' Or is it talking about the time of this particular certificate, which will fail and then come new, or what? What's that supposed to mean? I didn't think it was clear enough somehow. What also caught my attention, and I just want to think about it. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça mentioned, that's foreign driving. At 63rd. The bill is about a foreign driver's license. It shows that a minister should set rules for the conditions that those who live in this country and do not have an Icelandic driver's license to drive a motor vehicle. There are new recommendations in this bill that the Minister can decide that a driver's license can be published in another state, which is involved in the European Economic Area Convention, also after its management is settled here in accordance with national regulations. And in a similar way, a minister may decide that a driver's license will be published in a different country, since a Icelandic driver's license is also accepted in that state. That law certainly caught my attention. You're wondering if you don't have to make sure that the Icelandic government could be equal there, that this isn't just: If you let us, let us just let you in, but no authority in general. I think this law is completely unclear. If I look at the rules now, i.e. Driver's license Regulation, 29th par. The Regulation is very vague. It speaks of a driver's license published in a Member State of the EEA or the Faeroe Islands allowing the same driving equipment to be controlled in the country, but it also states that a driver's license in a state outside the EEA is not authorized to operate machinery unless the certificate holder has met the requirements set in the Regulation. Therefore, in the Regulation it appears that all people can drive with foreign certificates in this country if they have an age, and of course a foreign driver's license. But this is not really the case, at least not with those who have moved here. In this regard, you may wonder: " Who is in charge of this? Suppose here comes a tourist from a foreign country outside of the EEA renting a rental car. Is it possible for the person to drive in his foreign driver's license, but the person who moves here to land and intends to live here is not allowed? Who's watching this? Is it the rentals that guarantee this or the police? Who really is watching this? I'm just worried that it's something that's not totally active in today's project and it would be very good to get information on this, at least To me, this is a law like it's on the bill. It's not clear enough. Of course, this is a legal authority for a minister who is very open, as it has been. But you're wondering about this by putting into law that if our government approves our Icelandic driver's license, let's do the same thing, whether it guarantees both equality and security. It may well be that some countries of the world do not care whether they usually have a driver's license, whether they are Icelandic or not. You wonder if this law does not need some opinion. But I look forward to getting the bill to the environment and transport committee, and I also look forward to paying attention to the information coming up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u104	A respectable president. We'll discuss that new traffic laws that I'm very happy to be here and that in fact, they're long overdue. I want to thank you very much. Ministers and fine officials of his people who surely had roads and problems of the work, which must be vast and complex in view of the amount of rudeness involved. I have, like many others have. Senators who have spoken, do not ignore the bill and trust in it. Environmental and transport committees to consider it well. But I cut by a few points in my passage on the bill I'd like to come in on. The first point points to that as a dog. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned, as well as other members of Congress have entered and regarding foreign driver's licenses. Special driver's license is specified in the EEA and then the Faeroe Islands, probably because of the huge agreement we've made with the Faeroe Islands, the Hoyvík Convention, or something like that. But then I'm gonna ask you why not Greenland at the same time? These are often thought to be our friends people and neither belong to the EEA or the EEA agreement. The other has access to the abilities of people from different parts of the world and their experience in driving under certain circumstances and in Iceland. The bill shows that 75% of people who are killed on the road in this country are killed on highways in rural areas and 50% are seriously injured on highways in rural areas. We live in a relatively special highway system in Iceland compared with many other countries. Sadly, we have seen relatively high percentages of foreign tourists die in traffic and suffer severe road accidents. I know that the rental car payments, the Grouping Room, and other people have worked hard to increase their education to tourists on the road. I think we could even do better. At 63rd. The bill on a foreign driver's license, like what? A senator came in earlier, says that in case of driver's licenses published outside the EEA for as long as our certificate is valid in that country. As far as I know, we'll have enough money to make a Chinese tourist driver's license here, but we can't drive in China with our Icelandic driver's license. If the information I have is correct, I wonder if there's any discrepancy in there. I am not going to delude certain countries and say that they are not allowed to do so, but I feel that there is a need for some kind of discussion or lecture or instruction to be given to the people before they are allowed to drive through our country, in view of the fact that we are primarily trying to improve the safety of road users. Then I'd like to mention specifically 76th par. of self-driving vehicles. I am so happy that this article is in traffic law and that it is very important, since it is clearly the future. I got it. I got it. The Environment and Transport Committee to carefully review this article and to make sure that there are no limits to development in this area. I see that in the report, it is okay to review that those who have written these words do not consider them to be, and that they want to keep it as the most open course for ministers, who I think are important. I encourage special consideration for this factor. We have talked about the consumption of alcohol and other drugs, and I support the goal of the bill in this regard. However, I would decide to deny a driver's license to use drugs or drugs if I understand that correctly. I wonder how it works. What if a person is an alcoholic? How can you confirm that she does not receive a driver's license? I think it's interesting. I don't know if this is a change from what's in the law today, but I'll leave the question for those who will review the case on the Committee. I'd also like to mention one thing, which I have to admit that I didn't find enough when I ran across the bill, and that's traffic signs or traffic signals. I know that they have an important role and, of course, are important, but the fact is that they can sometimes convert to their rebellion. I've read interesting reports on experiments to do so, e.g. traffic signs were removed, and the results were positive. People really look at themselves and agree with the way things should work. If I have had a considerable experience in organizational matters, I remember feeling that when we had to agree to a plan to install all sorts of traffic signs in the neighborhood and send to the chief of police for approval. Looking at that picture made you sick to sea because it was an enormous number of signs, all around the telephone mornings, and on every lane. I have to admit that when I ran over the bill earlier, I didn't feel anything about it, but I think there's good reason to discuss such meanings and when they could be too many and even prevent other traffic, such as bicycle riders and walking roadmen and seeing them. Finally, I would like to mention something that may be a minor matter. 79th. you will discuss the safety and protective equipment of unwanted road users and including the use of helmets in children under 15 years of age. If I understand correctly, this is being transferred into the law before now, only in Regulation. 3 mg. Says police and guardians to call attention to children in accordance with 1 Corinthians 15: 33. mg, which is the use of helmets. I don't think the priorities in sentence are wrong, talking about first the law of the police and the guardians to call the children's attention on helmet use. I think the responsibility must be primarily guardians and that the police are more involved in a surveillance job. These were the points I cut by. I am so happy that a complete reassessment of traffic laws has been made. I think it's a long time, and I trust that the bill will get careful and good publicity on its part. Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u105	A respectable president. There are a number of factors in the discussion of billing for a full reexamination of traffic laws. But there is one particular thing that I would like to come in on that turns to the 50th par. Based on the fact that the underlying basis for exposure to drugs is considered to be in the blood, not at present, but that urine measurements may be the basis for such evaluation. At the council, we're probably trying to make some sense. Prescientism is rich in many of us. Some of us speak for sugar tax, so people drink less sugary sodas or buy less chocolate bars. The amount of carbon is set up and raised by 50%, followed by further increases, all to direct the behavior of the people of the land in one way or another. Of course, there are countless examples in what we have built up in Iceland. What I wanted to mention in this context is fifty. which says, by permission of the President: It is a prohibition on driving under the influence of narcotics and addictions. Is the law for a core policy in line with Article 45. a valid track. It is suggested, however, that the fundamental change from the current requirement to measure the potential amount of addictive and narcotics, which is a basis for assuming that a driver is considered to be influenced by such substances, and thus unsatisfactory to drive safely, only the blood of a driver. If this is to be the case, a reference would be made to indicate that urine measurements can provide sufficient basis for these materials. It's all true. But I think at any rate we have to be aware of a decision at the council when it comes to and in the work of the Committee that here we have a preemptive of this paper as they are now, because while it may be possible to argue that drug abuse has occurred quite some time before the driver is taken in a test, probably by the police, the best way to fail on this test is simply not to consume drugs. I'm not going to tell myself anything about any particular position in these matters right now, but I think that if this proprophylaxis is taken out of the Icelandic principle, it would need to be conscious of a decision, not a decision made without a thoughtful decision. Because the fact is that in this hall, people, whether it's good or not, are trying to control the behavior of the citizens day in and day out. So I just remind them of sugar taxes, carbon bills, and other items, things that all of them are burned to the same degree to be some kind of consumer control. Here, however, we have a constitutant who works against consumption, for of course, the catalyst is that of not taking drugs, and the substances are found in urine. In other articles of the bill, I will have many opportunities to express myself later and work on the committee. But I wanted to make that point today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u106	Madam President. I'm going to discuss a few things on this comprehensive bill. But I'd like to say first, it's good to know that the bill has come out and that it's the highest plan. Minister and then, hopefully, Congress, that this case will end. It has been in the past for a very many years that total traffic reexamination would have to be done. The last time of this trip is over, if I remember just 2013, and since then it's not been made a proper vote, it can be said, at least not here at the council. When you read this bill, you will soon see that there have been things that have happened since the bill was submitted at the end of the council, and many articles have improved and many matters have been dealt with that were not dealt with in the same way in the bill submitted at the council of 2012 and have probably ended in 2013, I think they will. I want to focus on two things. That is what has to do with bicycles, a special law for bicycles in the VII. section and IX, respectively. a section on alcohol and drugs, perhaps most related to bicycles. But before riding a bicycle, I especially want to celebrate what is said at 4 mg. Twenty-eight. It's a law to shut down a vehicle when you leave it. Now I won't tell you if it's not in the current law, but at least it's a law that says you can't leave a car in a loose walk anymore and walk away from it. I like it. To the bicycle section. There are three articles that specialise bicycles in this bill, and I wonder that they are not allowed at any rate at all unless they mention that a racer can sometimes ride at the usual roadside if the speed is allowed below 30 km. The speed of bicycles is not in any other way unless I remember that there's a legal authority somewhere on something related to the local community. Now we know that the speed of bicycles can be tremendous, especially on bicycle tracks, and in competition, it is not unusual for bicycles to be in the range of 60,60 miles [50,60 km] an hour, and more. It can be very dangerous on cycle paths, especially in which you mix to some extent with the pedestrian walk and biker walkers. So I wondered, " Is there any reason to say so specifically in the bill either that a minister has the authority to set a specific law on driving speed on bicyclist footpaths or that the law on the speed of racing is simply set in law? ' Those who ride on wheels realize that even on a kind of wheel surface, it is possible in a relatively easy way to get up to 30 miles an hour. Compared to walking, there is a tremendous speed. The only way to handle bicycles on footpaths is to tell you that they can ride on foot. That is, it is worth a fine price. But I wondered if it needs to be on the bill or at least in a committee article in a paper on how to handle such a bicycle ride, e.g. where there are popular trails. Take trails, such as Lyshaw Road, High Throat, and more of these, where bicycles can truly be found but will no longer result in the loss of natural disasters if a number of people were to engage in bicycle riding there. That's what I feel. An committee needs to consider. There's not much talk about bicycle equipment in the bill. It is in one place that riders should give a beep when they come to people, and that is a fine price. So it probably means that there must be some kind of vocalist, or a reasonably clear, bicycle rideer to call, but that is to say nothing about the light or light equipment of bicycles in particular. As bicycle wheels, and especially those of us who ride on our bicycles in winter, we also know that light on bicycles and often powerful lights may be one of the most important safety devices. I'd encourage them. A committee to make a special assessment of whether this is a reason to state the subject in the bill. Another factor that I find reasons to look specifically and that the committee considered is whether there should be laws to put in, in the same way as there are regulations for driving cars, on bicycles, that it would be conditioned that there were some specific space for bicycles. In many ways it is special that the wheels should not be kept at any time, e.g. to public buildings or such. Bicycles are certainly tools that we can use to reduce our carbon trajectory, and this could be a source of encouragement to us. Then I'd like to point out a certain discrepancy that I feel is in the bill between 6 mg. 49. ..... the prohibition on driving drunk, and on driving 3 mg. Fifty. y.................................................................. It is possible to understand 49. so that, in itself, a biker can ride a bicycle without specifically measuring the amount of alcohol in the person's blood if not, as stated in the bill, by permission of a president, under the great influence of alcohol or other stimulating agents. This is true in some way because of alcohol abuse, not under the influence of other substances. I wondered if there's a particular need to be handled. Then there is one example, there is a wording in these articles. It is always said that no one should drink alcohol or other stimulating substances. Since alcohol is not a stimulating substance, the word order in the bill should be: No one should drink alcohol or other narcotics or stimulating substances. Just a tip to the why. A committee to correct this. Then I wondered, Madam President, whether it's 79rd. should not be mentioned as having bicycle helmets when riding a bicycle. I'll argue with you. As I said before, people are riding bicycles at considerable speeds and can very easily harm themselves, but their helmet is the primary protection from self - injury. Just as we expect people to wear helmets on light - wheeled automobiles, where their speed is usually between 50 and 560 miles or something like that, I can't see that it makes sense not to ride bicycle helmets when they ride at the same speed, at least when they ride on wheels where there are cars. Maybe it's a little different when they're just on closed bicycle trails, but in the course of public traffic, it should be that way. Finally, Madam President, the definition of Article 3. Talk about cycle paths, number 22. It refers to bicycles or light -weight motorcycles as being marked in class I, etc. I wondered, " Is it better to define a tire path for bicycles or other foot - ladder vehicles, not to move the light wheels in there, or to limit it to electric vehicles that are more than a bomb - powered bike? ' Now, some may wonder why I'm taking all this moss right here in the Aldus symposium on bicycles and why I don't just make those comments in my head. Committee of Congress. That's because I don't have a committee, but I hope the members of the committee take those notes and consider them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u107	A respectable president. I'd like to start with one question about parking tickets. Is it possible to fine people in rental cars who drive too fast or cross onto red light or something like that? What is done in the case of their drivers? You see, it is particularly said that cars can be charged with things like going over to red and stuff, but does it cover rental cars? And haven't you gone too far over there? The car owners are being charged with going to red or the next shot of a driver on a surveillance camera without knowing who the driver of the car is, i.e. Not in that case, the driver is being punished but the owner of the car, which I understand is necessary to cover drivers of car cars who drive illegally but may be over the line. I wondered if there's any distinction in the bill, if there's anything there. Otherwise, I'm going to ask a few questions, first about 41 st. It's a training out there and a race due to age. For a person who has not reached 18 years of age, there is an exception to the written consent of a parent or another forebearer. I was wondering why it's 18. I understand it's in the current Regulation, but we get a driver's license at 17 years of age, why is that not the case? The United Nations Children's Covenant says that we should gain greater self - control by the age of 18 or as young people are intelligent and mature. It's been pretty much past 49. I call for sources there, based on studies of the numbers or the Proms that are discussed in this article. Why is it going down to 0.2 Promills? On which investigators is this determined? 52nd. is given up in joints a, b, c and d that the driver of a motor vehicle is obliged to require the police to undergo a breath test and provide a display of sweat and saliva if: a. There is reason to believe that he has violated regulations... b. There is reason to believe that he has broken through other regulations... d. if he's been stopped by traffic. I feel it necessary to do a little thing there, that there's some reason why the person needs to have a breath test or another sample, not just because he was stopped at random, but because there's a reason, if he ran over a legal speed or something, not just: I was stopping you, here's a blow balloon, did so well and blow it. It seems to be only if there's a reason for planning a break, but in the D- force, there's an open warrant for the police to take any sample she wants without giving any reason for it. Fifty-nineth. is called a driver's license and a driving test. D- team reports that the driver's license for permanent residence may be granted. I just want to go in a different direction than what. paritaprevir Haraldsdóttir. As a foreign exchange student, I had to take a U.S. driving test and get a driver's license. I'm wondering if students that come from outside, for example. from the United States or from countries where there is no condition to take a Icelandic driver's license, problems with whether or not they can simply get a driver's license in Iceland if they have no permanent living here or if there are conditions to which ensure that, for example, there is an exception. Trade students who are only in this country for one year can use the driver's licenses they have already received or are able to receive. In the 78th. The safety and protective equipment is referred to when driving a motorcycle or a vehicle. Why should you wear just protective helmets and not wear protective clothing? It is often said that if you only have protective helmets on a bigger motorcycle and not wearing protective clothing, it is the only thing a helmet does to make them knowable after the accident, but they are not necessarily alive. It would be interesting to learn why not also require protective clothing. To the 95th. is the reference to the registered owner and the authority I had already asked. Above all, it's 102gs, about the loss of driving rights due to drunk or drug driving. I wondered if a test due to a suspect that a driver is under the influence of alcohol or drugs is not sufficient to provide one type of samples or whether it could automatically result in a loss of driving rights if the person refuses any kind of sample, e.g. if he agrees with taking blood but does not want to give a urine sample, if he loses his license or what. It's a small bag game going through a lot of different branches of the bill. As you read, you will have some questions that would be interesting to hear an answer in the ministry analysis at the time of the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u108	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for a good discussion here regarding a new traffic bill. As members of Congress have reviewed, this book is quite a book, a lot of work. I'd like to use this opportunity and thank you for the discussion, but also for all the hard work done by the Ministry's employees and various experts who have come to some sort of thing to get this patched together. I'm only going to try to cope with some of the questions that have been raised today. Many, on the other hand, do not have to be a list of many other restrictions and sources, allowing them to do so. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear finally came in with regard to the protective clothing of motorcyclists. It has also been noted whether to forbid coloring of lips, use a mascara, or eat a pump under a wheel or anything like that. Of course, in general the aim of the law is to create a better framework of traffic security, and in many areas it is appealing to people's common sense to save themselves and to ensure safety by not having their mind on something else, or to defend themselves properly. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson arrived e.g. The use of helmets on bicycles should be considered. We're not going that far. Our primary concern is to protect children. Nor do we take motorcyclists so far as to legalize the precise handling of the protective equipment and the like. For example, questions have been asked regarding light equipment and bicycle equipment. It is to answer that the use and duty are addressed, that they have sufficient light - markings, and so on. However, there is a complete review of bicycle equipment regulations, and there is a law waiting for them to complete it. The same applies to meanings, such as gills. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir came in. They are discussed in 88,◯90. par. If I recall correctly, but at the door, there is a complete review of the regulations on how these markings should be in order to match what the law says about traffic safety and about information related to road users so that they go on the right path and not cause problems because they don't see, they don't know where they're going. It is hoped that in the future, when technology becomes helping us, we will find that there will be more direct information, real-time information in the vehicle itself, in the computers that will be there, whether the cars are self-driving or under driver's control. It's very important, and I think it's done a little bit well, that this article that opens up the authority to test auto-oppressive cars in certain areas - it takes a lot of equipment to do it and infrastructure to make it possible - is open enough to prevent the development that's going to happen. There we have looked to the experiences of other nations. Otherwise, there was a lot of discussions about drugs. It may be appropriate to mention that today some of the fines are involved. They vary depending on how a person esteems a offense. It is quite obvious, however, that with a reduction in Prommills in alcohol, the message is being sent to this population zero, which means that you don't accept any use of alcohol because you know the effect of alcohol, how it affects different individuals who have also been discussed here. Then there is the lowest human life can go. Some even claim that it is too low. Lands that have tried to go down to 0.0, you will get to just 0.2. Because there was a question about research in this context, it would be appropriate to mention that this article, on page 24. In fact, research shows that such messages change the behavior of drivers in the intention of not doing so. For the discussion of discrimination between illegal and legitimate drugs that are stimulating or soothing, and therefore influence the driving capacity of individuals, the obvious is that we are talking about legal things and illegally. In terms of legal products, it must also be said that they have gone through very extensive tests. That's why the pharmaceutical business is the way it is. It takes a long time to develop a drug, and they need to be tested and recognized. Therefore, limits can be set. However, illegal drugs do not know these limits; these drugs have not been through accurate research. In addition, new illegal drugs are being invented every day, so technically such a frame cannot be created. Hence, there must be a difference, even if only for the sake of the law, and the rest is illegal until it is changed. This question was also asked about objective responsibilities, a talk that has been significant in the media, and the last speaker, why. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. To answer that question, consider the objective responsibility of the 95th paragraph. it is suggested that a registered owner or a motor vehicle driver be fined if the vehicle has been used in a speeding fraction or next to a law - enforcement camera. The requirement for allowing the owner or authority to subject himself to objective punishment is that a driver has not used the vehicle in total ignorance and that it is not serious to defend a point. This means that renters can post it in their terms, as is done in many parts of the world, under which renters sign that credit cards are allowed to withdraw the amount of fines that lie on the rental car rent because of traffic violations on rent renting. In this way, tenants would guarantee paying themselves the cost of rental rent because of speeding renters. I think this is important because it has been shown that a part of the fines resulting from foreign tourists are not paid at the cost of hundreds of millions. I don't think I've answered everything. Only a drive ban, according to 107th. I think it is in itself clear that this is true of temporary cards, and only a person can be removed in this way once and placed in the relevant hands of his temporary diplomas in a place where he will need to have a retest before he receives his temporary card again. The same is true of the 63rd pars. which has been about, as it were, a foreign driver's license. It's normal for mutuality to be in it, it's international contracts. When men are ready to accept a driver's license into the country, this is probably because the conditions for getting a driver's license are comparable to those in the other country. Therefore, this is not an abnormal approach. I think I've mentioned a lot of what's been asked about here. Other than that, I refer to the report, which is very detailed and all the reports that are probably more than 120 or 110. True, some may come in every traffic, but the bill has gone to public information three times, and it can be searched and then to the work of the Committee. I trust the Committee very well to go through this. Finally, I thank you for the most objective and positive contribution to the bill. I think it would be very good if we could finish this overall review. Although some nostika - Madam President, forgive the choice of words - is present for those who have worked with these laws for a very long time and know the paragraphs, it is worth more than a new law that better sets in modern times and the future regarding national traffic security.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u109	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for changing the alien law and the Schengen information system in Iceland that lies on this deck. 233. No. No. No. No. 80/2016, of January 1, 2017, has been identified as a reimbursement, and a reexamination of several of the laws so that their actions and treatments under them are clear and transparent. Under these circumstances, a world of Congress was in its time, and it was clear that there would be a need to see how much new legislation would function. But the bill is one factor in this point and does not in itself include important material changes in the law. The bill of the same material was presented to the last legislature, but it did not succeed and is now forwarded a little different. In order to respond to the comments received from Peritoneal Protection, under the Agency's direction at the end of the last council, slight changes have been made in 2 g. the bill, and we will comment on that article. The bill is designed primarily to adapt wording and references to a law code, to explain specific requirements that have been vague or inadequate and to handle a case with the NTSB committee, and to the candidate's testimony for protection in an interview at the Foreign Institute, more efficient. At the same time, with the best interests of children, there are expanded government sources for the implementation of personal information and the implementation of relevant information on children. There are also corrections in the laws on foreigners in the Schengen Information System and the customs security authorities given permission to have direct access to the system. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd. at the end of the discussion of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u110	A respectable president. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister only to Level 4. The bill, to the Iceland Red Cross Question that sent in a envelope last time the case came in here. In Comb 4. The bill appears to be extended, or clear, let's say, Regulation and text are added to the Regulation authority on the account. the impact of the previous administration scale on the application of excluded persons. In his review, the Red Cross wondered about the potential effect. I have to admit that I don't fully understand the explanation of the latter version of the bill, the explanation given in the bill's report, that it refers to a Regulation authority that -- I am afraid to explain it in my own words, I'm not sure that I understand it. But a third. discusses the obligation that a person must be on the land to apply. This can be removed if there is any reasonableness in that direction. This is 3 mg. on this subject, and then there is a Regulation on this 3 mg basis. And the text that I mentioned earlier is added to this Regulation, added to the text I mentioned earlier. The short version of my question is, "Why?" Why should this be added to this Regulation, especially if the basis for it is the same as the stated 3. mg?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u111	A respectable president. Section 4. The bill aims to explain the deadline shown at 2 mg. 51st par. The law of your own. Comments with the bill show that there is uncertainty in this issue that needs to be explained. I'll call attention to what. It is up to 50 C.E. .., as she is today, 51... ...... mg., dictates that the exception of the C-populations 1. mg., which remains unchanged, a value while the applicant is authorized to stay on the basis of visa traps or while the applicant is authorized to live without a visa. This has been explained more closely because valid visas are all equal for 90 days, so this is a suggestion to be allowed to stay, when the applicant is excluded from signing, a value until the applicant has stayed 90 days in the Schengen area, i.e. that if you do not have an autograph, you do not have other rules or those who have visas. So it is laid down and suggested that the exceptions be a-and c-parts 1.mg. value while the applicant is authorized to stay on the basis of the visa's trap but that the Foreign Institute can provide candidates on the basis of a- and b- teams 1. longer permission to stay during the application procedure. So this should be an explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u112	A respectable president. I'm sorry, I haven't been clear enough in my first speech, and it's all written on me. I'm speaking specifically of Unit 4. I'm going to try to keep this right - 5 mgr. 51st par. It's the law, but it's got to find the legal authority on the 3rd issue. ............... 51st par. The articles of the law. V.E.G. The minister gave a fine answer to the a- team, but I was going to ask questions about the B- team and especially the end of it. It shows that 3 mg instead of 3 mg. of 5 mg. - For explanation, 3 mg. The prohibition that it is permitted to deviate from 1st. in other cases than those listed if it is recommended by rich fair - minded people. The protocol is already available on this set in 5 mg. and in the law are being suggested to add to the decree, that it also defends 1. mg, which I think is quite normal from her subject. But it adds this string, this text, by permission of the president: Among other things, the impact of the previous administration scale on the application of an authorities. I still don't see the evidence, either in a report or elsewhere, why it's added. The Red Cross asked about it in its review of why this was being applied and requested that there be some examples under the circumstances of a previous ruling decision on the application of such individuals in later stages. I am a little looking for information about the circumstances in which such former government decisions would have affected them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u113	A respectable president. Maybe I just didn't have a question to ask myself. A candidate who is in any position, so with the bill it stresses that the Regulation allows it to stand as it is, in accordance with its requirements, to be included in the Regulation and thus to prevent the applicant from hosting longevities in Iceland in an illegal period or only with a warrant for residence during the preparation of a temporary application. I can't answer that question right here and now, under what circumstances, or under what circumstances this is going to be implemented, but it is quite clear that the previous administrative decision should be taken into account in the application of these paroles, so that it is consistent when men call for an extension of a stay that may normally be so that men are applying for an extension of a previously issued visa. I'm encouraging it. A senator or some other. A global and educational committee to look into this further, but they call for practical examples from the Foreign Institute, which may have such an example. However, it may be impossible to predict all possible circumstances in these areas. But I expect this to be checked.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u114	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the presentation of the bill, which is now being changed slightly back to the council, but the bill was previously submitted to the last assembly. The report on the bill shows that there have been comments on this, as it did to the council in the past spring. Did comments from four sources, the Red Cross, Peritoneal Protection, the Children's Agent, and the Children's Institute for Children's Health, I think, and some minor changes were made after the reviews were revealed. It's interesting to me, I have to say, even though the report specifically shows that Iceland's Red Cross made some comments on certain points of the bill, e.g. Since the organization expressed concern over the increased authority of the Chairman and the vice president to determine alone in certain matters, it appears that no change was made on that law. You wonder why no consideration for the indications of the Red Cross, however, must say, is understandable, since Iceland's Red Cross has a wealth of knowledge to control in this series. The Red Cross, however, believes that this change may lead to a problem with the applicant's case on international protection and that candidates for international protection have a significant interest in the outcome of their decision as they understand. These include their own lives and, often, young family members. Of course, the lack of research is very important. As to this, the committee has been discussed and discussed that the whole case is involved, even though the chairman's decision is alone, but it has to be considered, and I know that the Ministry's staff has been asked if there is a similar warrant in another law in which the independent ruling committees operate, that the presidents or vice presidents decide alone in such important matters. The last time I raised that question at a Senate Committee on the affairs of foreigners involved, the Ministry officials couldn't answer that question. You wonder if there is an example in the administration system that allows one individual, president or vice president of a committee to decide on such important matters. We're talking about issues that concern the future and the possible lives of individuals. That's no small thing. Other details on the bill draw attention, and that may be what you see in 2 gr. On the authority of the child - welfare authorities to give indications, to give information or information to those who make decisions about the future and the lives of those who apply for protection, that the Children's Protection Agency can provide information on the state and performance of children who come here for protection. I would like to wonder, then, if it was not a reason to add the laws of a special law to foreigners that somehow ensure the right of children who seek here, whether there is no basis for a change in the law of foreigners, to put together a special obligation to listen to the information provided by the Board of Child Protection when there is doubt that a child is living in the decent setting and adequate circumstances, whether there is a reason why we do not only have government authority to provide information on children, but also a government obligation to listen to the family members who are looking for a family to come here to find protection, in addition to the plain legal rights, that if a child is to be sent away from the land or to an adequate setting in Europe, or to be received in any other country where there is no place to be safe from a child. Because I think that's perhaps the best thing we can do, that's not the many children that come to this country. The vast majority of those who come here for protection are adults who are alone. The children aren't that many, but they sure come, but they're also born in Iceland. Then you wonder, " Is it not just a reason for us to do this now that we're dealing with the law, changing various regulations, whether this is the reason why we now make clear the law that we're going to be human beings, that we'll use our political instruments, which are Icelandic laws, and provide young children who are seeking protection here, that we will provide them a vital refuge? ' I think it must be a majority wish at the Council that we take some kind of action in this regard because both Icelandic law and international contracts that we've had and are committed to provide children with this kind of protection. This protection is certainly possible because we are a rich nation and a rich nation. I think that's what I'd like to say to those sitting at ease. The General and Education Committee that this will be considered in particular, that it will be added to the bill on the Senate that not only the Children's Protection Authority is authorized to provide information on the plight of children who are being fled but also directly to the Icelandic government, who make decisions about the survival of children who come here and are born here but who have no rights, to listen to what the Children's Health Department says when it describes the lack of equipment or complete uncertainty that the Icelandic government will send children to when dismissed from here. Other than that, I intend to observe a discussion on the bill and will also monitor its treatment at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u115	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill of changing the alien law and the Schengen information system in Iceland. As we have seen, the bill is submitted again since the last council, which included reviews to the council, such as the Supreme Court. A minister has briefly traced the matter. What caught my attention is mentioned specifically in the bill of the Red Cross article in Iceland and the Federal Protection. As far as I can see, a person's remark to Perconte is a failure. A legal point was given that was properly handled, and it agrees that such information and use are necessary and good for the protection of children's interests. I'm not making any comments. However, there are no suggestions from the Red Cross in a new version of the bill. In part, I think it's strange, and in part not weird, because there are sometimes ministers and organizations in town simply disagree and we're good at that. But there are also suggestions that I find very moderate. The Red Cross points to a problem that doesn't have to be there, but I don't find logical support in a new publication of the bill for why they were rejected. And even if it can simply be a matter of material differences between the highest. Minister and Red Cross, I still don't think the logic of the bill is particularly strong. Is it appropriate, then, to start with 1st par. The bill. There the Red Cross of Iceland is concerned that the change there may lead to a problem with the applicant's affairs of international protection. It is worth noting that the Red Cross has quite a experience, probably the greatest experience in the country, by suing candidates for international protection and exactly what they sing. In this case, the chairman of the judicial committee of foreigners is the only one assigned to decide matters when there are doubts as to whether two articles were defended in the Law. I'm going to try not to have complicated explanations so it's hard to monitor, but this is 36th and 37th pars. The law on international protection and the like, refugees and so forth. The bill's report shows that this will enhance efficiency and improve the work, which is a respectable goal for itself, but I don't think that this is going to be the opposite, that it is the cause of unsatisfactory courting treatments, because they are basically the ones that the study remains the same. I don't see how time can be saved by making one decide something other people decide. I don't quite see how it's gonna work. I find that argument hard to accept as far as I can see it. And thus remain as worried as the Red Cross. It is not the first time that the idea has developed and has been legally established that one president will decide something on a matter. That was against the Red Cross too. My understanding of the matter is that they are well - founded. The nature of the seminar is that we have received quite a lot of applications in recent years, more than we are used to, especially because of the world's conditions. That's all we should expect. Overwhelming pressure has been made to make it easier to make a decision, to make some conclusions. My worries and others in this relationship are that the way to no is simplified. It is made simpler to lead people into distress and to get them out of the country. It represents a slight response to Iceland's Dublin Protocol that it appears to be the primary goal of trying to shovel this problem somewhere beyond the rocks, even causing it to simply violate the stated objective, which is to shorten a period of therapy and save money. But there is no simple issue, and such institutions as the Red Cross will always fight for the rights of their clients. Because we live in a state of justice, there is no way for us to carry for himself a Order of Dublin and that the matter should leave the country. That means that people use every option they have to get their affairs going. It costs money and time to the jury, and indeed not so much in the courts for reasons I'm not going to trace here but with good reason to discuss, I draw attention to. I think it's 1st. The bill reflects that Iceland has a tendency to shovel things into trouble. I'm calling for a better argument. I don't feel that the evidence for this change is quite correct based on the criteria presented in the bill's report. It is worth noting that from his earlier donation, the Red Cross suggests changes in wording in its review. It is a review that I expect to be the same materially this time unless something is added because they do not respond to any comments from them. I feel that these changes in wording are only moderate and should be able to settle matters without any further reasoning. One of the suggestions is presented for the change of Article 3. The bill. It deals with the interviews that are open to candidates, they have the right to interview their business with the NTSB. During the bill, the second interview is taken away. The red cross thinks it's too tight. When it comes to this occasion, it is worth it to mention that there is no need for two interviews at all. I think that's what everybody agrees on. At times, the clients do not know for themselves why they should return when they have already declared their will. However, the Red Cross suggests an expression that reaches the goal of the article and can at the same time prevent the anxiety he describes. The same is true of the red cross's criticism of Article 4. The bill and the "A" section 6. The bill. There the Red Cross suggests that certain trials can be added so that they do not worry about what the Red Cross has to do with the specific requirements. Nowhere is there evidence to support why these routes are not gone, but they are relatively simple. I'm going to give a special name to the one that's about the "A" team 6. ......................................................... The bill. A- force six. the bill - I ask for a little patience so that I have everything right - it is decided that there will be a new sentence in 1 mg. 101st par. By permission of the President's permission, we have the following words: The unsupervised patent applications should then be dismissed. It's thought to fill in a legal doubt about it -- I don't know what to use, I don't want to say nothing, but it doesn't seem clear in the law what to do with unsupervised permits applications where people have been dismissed. And therefore, this change is proposed, and the processing of unsupervised applications for residence permits should be discontinued. The Red Cross is concerned that it may be a little too narrow, so it suggests the following words, a respectable president, by permission of a president: The selection of unsupervised patent applications should then be stopped unless the humanitarian grounds, privacy of privacy, home and family, or a rich level of fairness lead to a different result. I think that's a very moderate one. I don't quite see why not just put this in there to calm only the major expert on this case. I suggest that we take a little notice of the time when the Red Cross speaks, not only because it has the greatest experience in these matters, but because it also has incorrigibly confidence, to me knowing, in this group as well as in others, not to make problems in general. There's something else worth talking about, but I'm so lucky to have the special privilege of being a member of the General and Education Committee and this time I'll be able to review the matter better on a committee. These are some questions, although this in itself is not a very extensive matter in relation to the general language of foreigners. I thought it might be a small matter to me and to mention, in particular, the comments of the Red Cross in the hope that the committee will then be able to meet them. They do not violate the goals they are trying to achieve, which are in themselves at the foundation, even if we may be able to discern exactly how to achieve them without sacrificing any careful treatment or such. There is a tendency to give up, in my opinion and other cases, when trying to shorten the time, to reduce the pressure without spending any money. I think I'll call it a while, more dignified president, but I can't wait to get a better job on a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u116	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion on my bill as discussed here. I'd like to come on a few things two years ago. Councilmen who spoke up and recall that this bill was submitted to the council at the end of the last council. Of course, it was a short time for a conquistancy treatment, but as far as there was one issue of discussion and some treatment at hand. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I think there's just about 32 reviews on the bill. But I still don't know if they've joined the Committee. The Ministry reviewed all the comments on the bill. As shown in a paper with an existing bill, comments received from Peritoneal Protection were taken into account, especially in view of the fact that since the end of the bill was submitted, the value of a new personal protection law has been taken into account, which was also the case. that is why this report was taken into account. Of course, the review of the Red Cross, which was in a number of joints, was carefully examined. I'd also like to mention that when the first bill was submitted, when it was done in the Ministry of Justice, it was introduced to the Red Cross in accordance with the procedure we've had in these matters for some time now, we're in good cooperation with the Red Cross and with others who are involved in these and other matters. Regular consultation and regular monthly meeting, if not more frequently, with these institutions to review the experience of legislation and to receive advice from all these agencies on the necessary changes in legislation. The first bill was carried under the Red Cross and in progress. The Red Cross did not see reason for sending in a formal review of that matter at the time, but it was presented in the subject of the bill up to one time. But all right, men do not intend to give their right to pass reviews on matters in the late stages of the case, and this did the Red Cross, and it was specifically reviewed. I feel that there is some misunderstanding here, however, about the rights in this regard. Even if a person is making extensive comments, it does not mean that a law bill will take an unreserved turn for the changes requested by the clients. The review of the Red Cross is no more than that of others in this case or of others does not automatically change the bill. It has not been done but has been examined specifically, and the points pointed out by the Red Cross have been torn and discussed with the Red Cross, so his views have been answered to some extent in this report. I refer to it as a comment with the bill. However, I would especially like to mention the comment, it is clear that the president and vice president's authority will be determined on certain matters, alone, without the success of the Commission as a whole, in its entirety. This is in accordance with the recommendations made by the Board of Overseers itself and by references to the procedure e.g. Outside and with reference to the rich interests that all applicants have of efficient management of these matters. It's important to keep that in mind, as I was told, in fact, another dog. Speakers of the council, The Helgi Hrafn Sniff son of Gunnarsson, give mention. He noted that this is not to be taken into account in the investigation of these matters, since it is the Agency as such a case of foreigners, which involves these studies. Hv. paritaprevir On the other hand, Helga Vala Helgadóttir wondered, " Is there any example of a president in this case of president and vice president? ' I just remember, because we're dealing with the alien law, that's exactly 2 mg. Section 8. In the law that an chairman is permitted to decide only on certain matters. So there are cases. I'm afraid to tell you there's more. But this is done in behalf of e.g. Candidates for international protection. It is also important to remember that this source of the president and vice president does not lie to the factors that may be most important to those applying here for international protection. It is a decision for international protection. It will always be in the hands of three committees. I just want to say that in Norway there are only 2% of legal cases decided by all comparable committees, but more than 90% of cases are handled by a chairman, one of the many presidents employed in a comparable NTSB. That's what I'd like to say, to answer something that's happened here. But I expect it to be. The General and Education Committee examined this case and called again for reviews, of course, to get visitors to discuss it. As I told you in my history, this bill is highly legal. There are laws that are very beneficial for children, and I have to say that I was sorry that this case had not been handled in summer in that light, but I don't think that there are much other material changes that are involved but that the matter is only designed to increase efficiency and explain the vague laws of the current law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u117	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for her discussion here a second time. But because of words, the highest. Ministers, as she referred to my words about examples for the sake of the presidents or vice presidents alone, I was, of course, now and when I inquired at the Ministry, asking for examples in other committees, other panels, other independent decision committees, or where there are no judicial committees at judicial hearings that are being issued. I was not asking whether these specific agents had previously been given these permission in foreigners but as examples in other committees. But now that I'm back up here, I'd like to ask you, too, just one question that has to do with the changes in the Personal Protection Act. The report shows that there may be a need for change again because there has now been a change in the Personal Protection Act. Then you wonder, " Why are adjustments now being made and then again proclaim changes if this fails to resist the new personal protection laws? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u118	A respectable president. Yes, I'm sorry if I haven't waited for it. A senator was referring to other committees, but according to Article 8. Now the stranger's law, to judge alone. I reiterate what I said before, I don't know if there may be other committees elsewhere. However, I point out that even the Supreme Court, appointed as well as so many Supreme Court judges at any given time, has the authority not to utter a single sentence. In fact, they have been criticized, and they may be looking for improvement with a diminished court-sponsored challenge. It is desirable that such judges, such as a court of law in itself, come together to give an example of a position in the court situation, make whole judgments. It has, among other things, been identified as "the true God, " and is" the God of all creation. " You are referred to the efficiency criteria, that you hide the Supreme Court to pronounce judgments in certain departments. I'll take it as an example, though it's not comparable, but it would be the best thing for everyone to decide, to rule at any given time, to be alone. However, this is not realistic or even excluded from the number of cases that exist, and the interests may not be so vast that they are, but rather, rather, the execution of simple administrative matters. In terms of the personal protection principle, it is only mentioned there, and it is true, that it may require further revision of this legislation, such as, I allow myself to state, in almost every other law that attracts sensitive personal information. [[The president calls.]] Humans are living in these days, and these deliberations are reevaluating legislation in general with regard to the new protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u119	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. There's two things that caught my attention. That is, on the other hand, it may need to be adjusted again. Isn't it possible to wait a moment to submit this bill? The Human Protection Act has gone into effect. It's a fact. So it should be easy for the same Ministry to have written a law to review the bill, whether it's a law. You can't quite figure out why the matter is being rushed in here if it is known or suspected that it needs to be changed again. I ask, " Is it not the best time for everyone to get a better look at the basics instead of having to be correct repeatedly? ' Then I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers how she likes that, along with government clearances to receive, and child protection is granted the authority to provide them, information on children who have come here for protection, we also post government duties to listen to child protection when she gives tips on this, for example. that the expulsion of individual children will potentially be lethal, whether or not the law, or the law of foreigners, to listen to child protection and tip from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u120	A respectable president. The bill's done pretty well, I think, and I don't think there's any reason why. A senator making his shoes work badly because changes are being made in the management of children's personal information that is called for. It is very necessary, based on the interests of children in the position of the trustees in this country, to share personal information about them between the child - welfare authorities in order to provide authorities with a perspective on their interests so that they can make the most accurate and best decision in their affairs. 2.g. The bill points to the fact that there is a warrant for contributing and providing personal information to ensure the child's interest in the treatment of the language in the U.S. National Institute of Iceland. I have to say, I'm a little surprised to hear it. A senator who believes that he is the spokesman for all those taking refuge and especially children, and often more than any other member of this building should suggest that this particular change be proposed. It was particularly strange to me that in view of the fact that a child's interests, the council would not be able to deliver a comparable legal arrangement for my last spring. It's legal, but it's necessary that there's a legal basis for sharing personal information about children. Then you ask me why. A senator tells me how I feel about allowing child - welfare authorities to evaluate where the child's interests are best, wherever the world might be. I have to say, I don't believe that children's health authorities have the necessary perspective and that it is normal to give them responsibility in the matter of evaluating children's circumstances in other countries. Other institutions are far better equipped to do so and have a legal obligation to do so. It would be a fundamental change in child - welfare committees if they were to be entrusted with this role.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u121	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister noted that while a review comes from an institution like the Red Cross, it is not automatically that the proposals will be introduced into a new version of a bill, and I understand that. I've put up a case, been a speaker, and have been given reviews that I've had to take sides and disagree, so I didn't want to change my affairs or the one I'm in front of. I understand that well, but I don't see a very complicated point. On the other hand, I wondered about the highest political ambition. Minister and beg the Minister to share with us. It is hardly controversial that the Red Cross has the greatest language experience. It's very difficult for me to see it. It also provides laws about foreigners for rights and for the security of foreigners who come to the land. Its aim is to ensure humane and efficient treatment, etc., goals specified by the lawgiver, and all of us must agree. When it comes to hearsay with such modest, balanced suggestions that meet the goals even better than the articles in the bill itself, then there is some reason not to use it if the law is intended to have humane and efficient and good so that they are concerned about excessive hardships in these people's rights, especially in the case of a group 6. the bill that presents a very moderate and simple explanation that is entirely in harmony with the purpose and purpose of the law? Has the highest. Ministers just don't want to hear suggestions from the most experienced and most knowledgeable agency in the case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u122	A respectable president. It is an excellent sport to question who are the greatest experts in the country. I treasure the Red Cross, which renders a great deal of careful service to those taking refuge, both on my own and according to treaties with the government. It has been a great deal of protection for those seeking refuge to have been able to carry out that work of the Red Cross. The red cross in Iceland, however, is in that position, and all its work is burned to the point, that it is a new project for him, as is the case with other jobs in this country. It is a place where people, like others, are employed in councils and other experts who have been at their feet in the new world, which, in fact, is part of a new realm of justice, an area of shelter, or a rule. I don't want to evaluate who are the greatest experts there, but I can absolutely say that the staff of the Foreign Board, the members of the Department of Justice, staff at the Ministry of Justice, has gained a vast array of comprehensive knowledge of law laws being subject to it all over the world and that they have had very many and many good cooperation with international agencies and experts in the management system around the world. I'm not sure that the Red Cross staff can be claimed to have more knowledge than that person. It is true that the Red Cross has a responsibility to appoint very good people. Within the Red Cross wall, however, there is also a distinction between interpretation of laws, just as there has been between the Commission and the Foreign Institute. [[The president calls.]] But most importantly, cooperation and conversation are between all these institutions, and it's certainly because of the Ministry of Justice that has premeditated conversation with all those institutions and regular consultations, as I've said many times, at least once a month. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u123	A respectable president. Let's skip every rivalry about which of those three organizations has the most experience, I'm ready for that. But it can only be clear that the Red Cross has a tremendous amount of experience that is valuable in reaching the goal of the humane and efficient treatment of those matters. That's got to be a lie. V.E.G. A minister earlier mentioned that something could be asked by the Foreign Institute. V.E.G. Ministers naturally respond to the concerns of the Foreign Institute and Department of Foreign Affairs. When the two agencies go to the Ministry with problems, legal or otherwise, the minister responds. I think that's a normal procedure. If we have ambition for the group, we must want to respond to such indications in line with the purpose and purpose of the law. But then there's a review from the Red Cross, and I can't stress enough that these are very moderate suggestions. They're not suggesting crossing the border. I'd like to give you an example at the short time I have, and it's about the a- team 6. Article 3, which discusses the final decision to cancel the given visas, employment licenses, non-relevant residence visas from the law and adds that the processing of unsupervised visas should also be suspended. This is how it is discussed in the bill. All right. The red Cross suggests that there is an addition to a human spirit, privacy, home, and family, or rich fairness to another conclusion. Why is such a moderate suggestion not merely in the light of the Supreme Court? The Minister of Justice, and rightly, notices in the Foreign Institute and Foreign Affairs? Why can't the modest suggestion be included? I'm gonna tell you how I feel about this, and I hope I'm not rude. I feel that there is a opposition to the Red Cross in the handling of this case. [[The president calls.]] I don't know why it is. Of course, I hope I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u124	A respectable president. That's not fair. A senator has to contend that there is some resistance against the Red Cross. The Red Cross has provided many and varied suggestions in the Law code, and the Lawgiver has taken many of them into account, as it were, in terms of rules and practices. So there is no opposition. However, there are also cases of understanding of international rules. In the Red Cross indication of the case, one specific point and interpretation in international regulations, an international directive that I notice not that Iceland is not specifically tied to, a court order that the Red Cross quoted in its review, appears to be often repetitious to the Red Cross. The Ministry is only to correct such misunderstandings. This has been done and has not been accepted as a tip in this regard. What a-team 6. The bill is about, like, what. A senator is the subject of thought, especially. After a thorough examination, the Ministry's evaluations made it important for the arrangement to remain as it is in the bill. The procedure has tested what will happen to the risk of the final deportation decision and should bear in mind that deportation follows the Schengen re-entry directive. It is not stated in the law what will happen to such applications, so it is considered in the highest normal way that they fall out of force, such as the given visa, which is one of the basic conditions for the release of a relic, not to have an incident that could cause the candidate to be exposed to landwalks in this country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Thus, there are legal reasons why the Red Cross has not been able to accept suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u125	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the changing of various laws because of a decommunication of reputations. Last autumn, there was an approved law on the change in general penal law that canceled the warrants of the President of Iceland for the record. That was the law of the law. The lead in this case, so that I briefly review him and review him, has been a great subject, but from where I've seen this case, it has been an interesting case of honesty, and I've been following such matters for decades and on the well-being of rioters, which has been a long practice in the administration of the administrations to give credit to those who attend to the Ministry of Justice. I accepted the office of the Minister of Justice in 2017, and soon after I entered the office, I received one such application, and I was asked to sign it. So it happened that in the case of a person who had served sentence, a sentence on penalties, in particular because of child violations, sexual abuse of a child. I had come to appreciate how the release of these cases was done in the Ministry. It was in a way that to me, a memo was given by experts who were briefly tore a name and teacher's name to the person, referred to a law on which the judgment was spoken, yet not to be torn or explained. It was all meant to refer to the terms of the Mosaic Law. And at the end of the memo, it was suggested to a minister that he would sign this application for honesty, lay it before a government, and then be sent to confirm the President of Iceland. I made a comment on this project, and then I was told that my two predecessors in office had also made such comments and would have asked the Ministry to see if these matters could be acted differently than any other person ever found out that they were a administrative committee and a tradition on which a minister was bound. Of course, this conflicted with the clear law, as it occurred in a law of penalties, which is a clear record of authority given to a minister who is authorized to give up reproach. But all of a sudden experts were assessed that in the light of a long government government government government, a minister was only to write under such requests. I did not, however, give this person a reputation, but some time later, there was a great deal of debate about giving up in another matter, not in my time. However, I would like to take this opportunity to see that the minister who granted them a reputation had strongly opposed it and remained on that decision for a very long time but had to refuse to give what to say, the management of experts. During the summer of 2017, a large discussion of the refreshment of the resurrections was raised in the case of a former lawyer who had been convicted of sexual abuse against children and who had subsequently been deprived of legal rights. The person had grown up with anger, and then he received his legal rights back with judgment, first with the state court, and then with the Supreme Court. As a matter of fact, whether the court could have had some way of not giving the legal rights back, it may not be considered here. Of the discussion that followed, I think no one was unmoved. It was great and beneficial. I declared it in the summer of 2017, in June to remember that I wanted to adopt these legislation as a reimbursement, although I thought it was a clear warrant for a minister, i.e. Of course, the decision to defend myself was more reassuring to the lawgiver himself in this legislation and to explain it in an unconvinced way. I immediately declared and have held the view that the phenomenon was somewhat out - of - date and came to my own age and became even more convinced when people began to study the arrangement in the North countries and in general. I planned to offer a bill for a change in penal law in order to change the arrangement for rejuvening during the Council winter that began in the fall of 2017. But, as people know, one of the members of the government then came up with many of the good things of the government that were planning to contribute to Congress. However, the Congress was eager to change this arrangement immediately. That's what it said. I could feel them only in the entire U.S. but that there were very few changes in terms of this change, in that situation, and though I attended several meetings with difficulty. Board of directors and surveillance committees and what. The General and Education Committee on the summer of 2017 to discuss these issues. All I could perceive was the great willingness of the council then to bring about some significant change. I described my proposal to make such legal adjustments at the time and mentioned that if this warrant should be passed by a minister of general penal law, it would be unavoidable to change at the same time all legal laws that are in various legal categories and that there should be an unspotted reputation as a condition for the administration of public or various tasks. On the other hand, the General at that time was very busy taking care of them when the secretary's authority to give up a reputation was taken away. It turned out that all the chairmans of those members of the council would like to submit such a bill in the fall of 2017. To this end, they received use of the work done at the Justice Department and gave a bill for reimbursement to the rioters in general penal law. I mentioned them in the discussion of the matter that I found it more challenging to make them also a change in all the laws that I have mentioned regarding an unspotted reputation. However, the council was eager to eliminate this warrant from the common law of penal law. However, this was done in a way that the law would come back to life on January 1, 2019, if other laws have not been approved. The situation today is so true that judges cannot call for credit and therefore do not have an unscrupulous reputation that results in their being e.g. not elected by elections. I was sorry about the last district election that it wasn't that people were elected. There is, of course, a situation that is completely unpleasant. The other is that humans cannot fulfill these laws in all the code of laws that stipulate unscrupulous reputations for various functions. But, of course, there was to be extensive consultation with a large number of people to make this bill best of its own. It would never have been that way, as I presented the council in the summer of 2017, that this bill would be shaken out of memory. As the Senate knows, however, the council took steps to eliminate this from the law of law. Then we come to the bill I put forward that is the second step, necessary and entirely inevitable steps, in closing this trial in terms of thoroughness, a vast bill to correct the changing of many laws. These are legal classes, which most of us may not hear under the Minister of Justice, but having agreed with all the Ministry, a number of interests, is now taking the lead. In fact, I was surprised, in view of the great discussion that happened here at the time, with the feelings and feelings expressed by humans in the matter and their firm stand for the phenomenon, gave rise to the issue, and their administrative decision on which it was based, that there were no material suggestions on how the Law should be practiced. I'll take as an example a law on accountants. We wished for the position of the accountants and the Ministry of Employment to see if there was any interpretation of the conditions required to meet in order to become accountants. There was no suggestion, and I sensed it, so they just wanted the Ministry of Justice to have a prelude to change those regulations and to maintain harmony. And that is what we have done. We have changed these requirements and have tried to maintain harmony in all of this. It will be interesting to know whether the various members of this organisation, the topic area of the various bodies, have some opinions on this subject. I'd like to say, if I'm just saying that Iceland's Department of Justice was concerned, the job of lawyers was particularly on the subject of the discussion of rioting, as is also a society with which the Ministry of Justice is in close and close contact. We also received helpful comments from the Department of Law. In this way, I think it is listed, the reviews of the case, both in its processing and after its introduction. However, I would like to reiterate that the laws imposed by the General Assembly in the fall of 2017, concerning the execution of a sentence made by a general law of penalties, fall from force on January 1, second, and that is therefore urgent that prior to that time, permanent changes in this arrangement consisting of a judicial act. This bill suggests that the removal of a person's reputation will be made permanently from a high government decision as well as the loss of the condition of a profession or office that the person has unsecures or has not been guilty of criminal action that may be viewed as shameful for public opinion. There are some terms that matter when people are trying to understand this phenomenon, they get mad. It is not enough to look at a single law column or just the phenomenon or the legal concept, but it is necessary to look at other factors in order to grasp that phenomenon. This is a reference to Article 5. a law of elections to the Generals where an unscrupulous reputation is defined by a judgment against an act that is shameful to the public. According to the law, criminal acts are considered shameful if a criminal is punished and the sentence has been passed on by those who are sentenced to four months incorruption or security and if the individual was 18 years of age or older at the time of the crime. This applies until five years have passed since the completion of the sentence. Before I further describe the subject of the bill, a respectable president, let me explain the proper effects of honesty. If a person has committed a sin and is judged in Article 5. he has committed a violation of public opinion and therefore has not an unspotted reputation. So he will not meet the appropriate conditions in the laws that state unspotted reputations until five years have passed since his sentence had been fully due or until he is brought to nothing. With harshness, he will again meet the appropriate conditions for making a requirement for an unspotted reputation. This did not affect the criminal record of the individual, however, in which the record of the criminal record was always unchanged and a record of criminal record was stated if a person had been handed over. The fact that some people had come to feel that somehow the person was no longer guilty of the crime, of course not. In current legislation, there may be appropriate conditions without referring to the definition of elections to the Council for unspotted reputation or criminal activity that would be considered shameful to public opinion. Thus, whether an individual who has committed any of the offenses mentioned in this article will not have made any difference. There are also many references to an unspotted reputation in addition to other conditions that the individual must not have committed certain offenses. The bill suggests that there will be a decline in reference to elections for unspotted reputation, and instead there will be suitable conditions for various professions or services defined specifically in relevant law columns. This is meant to increase the transparency and clarity of the law. This suggests that the loss of civil rights in law in general and that differences in interests involving different jobs and rights will be taken into account. This can be said from a criminal viewpoint and taking into account the individual's professional freedom of work, it is desirable that those who have been guilty of criminal law and thereby lose their civil rights will return after some time unless there is a very specific argument. Each case should be considered on a case basis what is the right requirement for individuals to be eligible or qualified. A respectable president. This bill can be divided into five parts. I'm just going to step on that. First, it is suggested that the changes made in law take place in the late autumn to be reimbursed from law to restore goods. This document will be permanently removed. Secondly, the definition of an unscrupulous reputation will remain in the law of elections to the Council. The reason is that 34 C.E. The Constitution commands that an unspotted reputation be one of the terms of success. However, the bill suggests that only those who have received an inaccessible sentence in the U.S. elections and the U.S. For this reason, the general democratic viewpoint is that most members of society would be able to volunteer for elections and fall into the corners of political movements, and, of course, voters, to select their representatives to the Generals or rural governments. I believe this is consistent with modern ideas in criminal politics that a person can become an active member of society and have settled his debt with society after taking out his punishment. Third, there is a requirement for more suitable those in existing legislation to meet the appropriate conditions for not having committed sins that would be considered shameful or that of public interest, which can undermine the trust that a person in such a position must generally enjoy. This is an appropriate requirement for legislation under the legal language of the Ministry of Justice and for the matters of law. Justices, prosecutors, marshals, police officers, county officials and exchange managers. Thus a requirement for this office must be made that those who have not been imprisoned for criminal action if they were more than 18 years old at the time of the crime, or may have acted in a way that can undermine the trust that a person in such a situation must generally enjoy. I believe that there will be a high standard for the authority of the authority provided by these institutions. Fourth, it is suggested that there be comparable demands for those applying for legal rights, i.e. that they were not sentenced to prison for criminal action after they were 18. However, in view of the opinion of employment freedom, it is suggested that the terms of this exception should be set up in the legal requirements requiring the granting of legal rights five years after the complete sentence is completed after the overall assessment of the nature and severity of the offense and the conduct of candidates from the end of the sentence. They should seek the information of Iceland's Law Association for legal rights application on the basis of this statute. It is also suggested that, because of the reimbursement of legal rights, a businessman be obliged to seek the facts of the legal society before making a decision. The current legal law states that if Iceland's law recommends it, the government's legal body can make a decision to reimburse legal rights, and Iceland's legal society has a binding effect on the government's decision, which is responsible for the granting of these employment rights. By means of the bill, the organization will be removed from that arrangement and solely required to look to the company for information, but it cannot, by doing so, bind the hands of government. I'll call attention to what. Senators of that matter, of course, I know that the Legal Society has a different opinion on this matter. It may not be surprising that the Society is rather sliding that this is the case by the law society itself. On the other hand, it is suggested that, under the authority of the police society, the government be placed in the hands of the authorities. The main addition to this is that the bill refers to a point that needs to be considered so that it cannot be randomly defined as to what viewpoints are to be viewed when assessing whether it is reasonable to receive back civil rights or to work rights. Finally, the fifth requirement in the legislation that obligatoryly obliges unspotted reputation will be changed so that the conditions that we can see today are set out in the law of elections for the General Assembly as an definition of unscrupulous reputation. So here, no material adjustments are presented, but only so that conditions will be set out specifically in the corresponding code. This is a factor in simplifying and clarifying the legislation in this field, as I did earlier. Thus it is stated in the court that if the person was 18 years of age at the time of the crime, it is not a requirement for a criminal act where sentence is judged as a four-month illegal prison sentence, or security, unless five years had passed since the full punishment was completed. The legal bodies discussed here refer to a Ministry of Justice other than the Ministry of Justice, and it is recommended that the situation remain largely unchanged materially, i.e. The Ministry of Justice has not really changed the physical requirements of the other department. It will be an opportunity in the future to review such conditions in the relevant legal matters if it is felt that it was needed and that they have gained further guidance to consider these matters in the light of experience. A respectable president. So I have explained key points of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. The General Board of Education and Education for the proper treatment and treatment of 2nd. at the end of this treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u126	Madam President. I'm gonna let it go this time to go into the big history check. A minister has exactly the origin of these laws. I just want to ask directly into the legislation itself, as it stands, and leave it to others to have a history check. Now it's got the highest. A minister repeatedly argued that work began to be revised in these laws in May last year. This is also shown in the bill's report. So I feel a little disappointed to see that there is no expansion of the network covered by these conditions, i.e. not to be wronged in order to fulfill a certain responsibility. There was also much discussion in this discussion that the approach to who would meet the requirements for unspotted reputation was mostly old - fashioned and was mainly about those who had a means of financial support for government administration, that would be for those who had the money of the State and not for those who were responsible for children or others. V.E.G. Secretary of finance, then. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The prime minister, an example of the need for special examination of teachers in this regard, and an overall review of much more professions was taken as the main reason why there could not be an immediate change in legal law. A wide range of nets would have to be covered. I miss the fact that lawyers are inside these packages. I also miss not being taken into account that once the country's SEC changes have been made, this is also true of the successes of the Child Welfare Commission, but the success rate for Child Welfare Committee members is considered by the SEC. [[The president calls.]] Is it so now, if the bill becomes legal, that individuals can be elected to a Child Welfare Commission as soon as a crime sentence is completed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u127	A respectable president. I can mention here that I choose to ignore the word. A senator says she's not going to touch what she calls my review right here in an encyclopaedia. I'm now very curious, though, to know what it is that it calls a review in this entropy speech and urge her to say it, if she thinks it's some sort of story explanation, as I heard of it, which it didn't agree on. But with regard to the material things she mentions, e.g. of attorneys, child welfare committees, teachers, or others, it was clear to me immediately during the summer of 2017 that I considered the monograph to need a review of the regulations that specifically require unspotted reputations as conditions for office or employment. If there is no authority on the bill, it is because an unscrupulous reputation is not a requirement and has never been a condition for anyone to be a lawyer. There may be good reason to review legal requirements and a number of different classes, teachers, health professionals, and so forth, but that cannot be done in this relationship, not in a bill designed to inspire a cowed phenomenon. I certainly think that the debate here at the council and the bill will achieve it, encourage governments that hear it, as well as professionals and others. to see if there is any reason to sharpen conditions for work. Of course, people need to keep in mind, too, that human rights are human rights and can't be cut off just by randomness or just because they feel that something or exasperate some kind of abuse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u128	A respectable president. I refer to the lawyers and teachers as an example of the professions referred to in order to stop the bill I wanted to transfer, of the limitations of legal rights, because there should be a much larger network in working conditions. I expected it to come on this bill, especially on the basis of how much time it took to get it on the trigger, i.e. that it would possess a broader area of responsibility. What I asked earlier has been done with child welfare committees. If we look at the top line to the Child Welfare Committee, the rules apply to the same thing as the terms and terms of the local government. Has it been considered, then, that a child can be violated, serving his sentence, and then considered to be successful in child - welfare? The impact of this change in terms of success, i.e. that the unspotted part of your reputation has been taken out, has been adopted by other committees and advisers? Is that absolutely certain, considering all the time that has gone into it? I must ask, in context of the bill as the highest. A minister will soon ask that the name of sexual offenders be stopped: If individuals are elected as soon as they have served their sentence, how on earth do voters really want to know whether they are choosing top-seated offenders? If the ultimate, how should we know? Ministers intend to erase their names from a general discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u129	A respectable president. Now I may not be able to comment on every job in the country, but child welfare committees are under the welfare department. The Ministry of Justice sent a statement and a request to give even a proposal to change jobs under that department, just as the Ministry of Justice did to all the Ministry, but received, as I mentioned in the history of history, no response to requests for the bill application as it turned out, nor would a wish for men to make suggestions in these matters. The answers came to the point that men wanted the Ministry of Justice to take the lead in this and put some kind of lines in it. As to child - care committees, I assume that, as with other sensitive jobs, children need to have, and are called for, a clean record of good conduct. Hv. A senator shakes his head, and it may not be appropriate to do so. But that's what I think it's necessary to be in the case of Child Welfare Services, some condition. I can only believe that there are suitable conditions there, though I do not know the full scope of that law. [[Up front.]] But I agree that this needs to be examined. However, I'm not sure that this bill is necessarily part of a bill that is determined to eliminate the delinquency of law and this requirement for unspotted reputation, which has been taking place for many years. I think it's much more efficient to make this work, but I don't doubt that it will be an incentive in various ways to reconsider the qualifications of various professions. I got it. I got it. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to take a special look at this with clients.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u130	Mr. President. Here we will consider a significant change in a number of laws, in particular 32 laws, that discuss the loss of rights following the criminal act of criminal action that may be viewed as shameful to public opinion. Or what? Yes, with this bill it is proposed to be permanently removed from the project that the government makes decisions for its integrity, which I think most of us can agree that there is an incompetent individual to whom it belongs, and that may appoint the seat of the Minister of Justice. This gives us reason to think of our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, the constitution given to us by a Danish king in the last century and some political groups who serve in the council have been slow to change. You can see in the constitution a law code, 29. g., which reads so, by permission of the President: If there are compelling reasons, the President may decide that a crime charge should be dropped. He'll get men. He'll give general charges. However, he cannot release from the prosecution nor from punishment judged by the national court, except by the approval of the Generals. I'd kind of like to encourage the highest. The Minister of Justice to bring us fighting for an adequate constitution in the long ago expedition because I don't think the President, whoever it is, should have that authority either. But again, the bill on what is discussed here is in response to the situation that followed the removal of an act of delinquency from the penalties in the fall of 2017, but it changed to the treatment of a panel by temporary change. The 32 laws involved in many governments are now being proposed, such as the management of UNECE and Contestant, some office, such as the office of state tax authorities and government managers, as well as judges, the position of special judges, eaters, and, above all, lawyers. That is exactly what the last job was to discuss when a sudden decision was made in the fall months of 2017, making a provision for a general penalties for wrongdoing. I think that all of us can agree on the importance of those who have the above positions and offices meet certain appropriate conditions but also certain moral conditions. Thus, it is stated by the bill that within a number of professions there are laws that add to the staff, such as demands for those who dedicate to priestly work, such as the laws on status, government, and conduct of the National Church. It states that it is required for the order or sentence of a priest's office that the individual has not become guilty of an action that would dishonor his view and that would be incompatible with a priest's work. There's no details about what this involves. A similar provision can also be found in youth laws as well as the laws on passenger and freight transport, to name something. Thus there are many kinds of cutbacks. An article with a bill on what we are considering here is just about the importance of evaluating such inhibition of rights to work from the government. I think you're absolutely right. Thus, it is no longer the Ministry that has the authority to make an error for those who seek it. It's on the move with the president, but let's hope the president doesn't take it from us, either the one we have now or the one that follows. I'd like to intervene in the terms of the bill found in XIII. section that is relevant to lawyers. It suggests that the very sacred law on an unspotted reputation is removed, but it suggests that a new court like the one found in a number of other agents on the bill can obtain legal rights that have been met by certain conditions but that the individual should not have received a sentence for criminal action at the time of 18 years. All of this is understandable and very similar to what is seen in many other parts of the bill. But it adds that it can be removed from that condition. This may be replaced by the release of the National Law Association of Iceland at the end of five years, but not if the nature of the crime and conduct of the candidate is intended to undermine the trust that lawyers need to have. So says: The extent and severity of the fracture should be considered, including the interests against, the intentions and age of the candidate at the time of the fracture, whether or not the violations of the job and the damage caused by the fracture have been committed. The applicant's manners should also be evaluated since the end of the sentence, especially if the applicant has an unscrupulous case in the justice system. The one present agrees perfectly with what is presented in a report, that it is important that lawyers be the trustworthy guardians of their dwellings, and society needs to be applied to them. But the purpose that is said to have a change in the law, i.e. to remove this authority from the government in order to assess the relevant candidate's ability to do his or her work, it appears that the pressure is completely out of control. The government will continue to make a decision under the direction of Iceland's police union five years after the sufferer's execution of a sentence on whether all of these random and evaluable factors are met. This applies only to lawyers. Just lawyers. Of all the 32 laws being changed. There are several members listed in the bill who have no such possibilities, no exceptions. Just lawyers. Others cannot approach the government in order to give an exception from the established conditions. These include district judge, national court judge, high court judge, expert judges in private and criminal matters. There is also no such possibility for those who take their place in a national court. Note that those taking place in the court of the land are added special provisions that they should not have been judged or exhibited a measure of conduct that could impair the confidence that judges in general must have. There, too, we are going to have some kind of food for it. What confidence do judges in general need to have? Can they not paint their mouth, or may they not break the law? Or you might wonder, " What are the classes? ' paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ivarsdóttir mentioned earlier. What about a teacher? What about lawyers? The law discusses the switcher. Well, trade managers are the ones who handle money. Lawmen are thinking about money, but they are also developing a wide range of well - beings, saving, and so on. Also, there are guardians, both children and adults, who are self-destructive. No mention of them. I'm afraid we're going to be forced to examine in particular how we're going to conduct the employment permit in terms of both lawyers and others. What does that mean, e.g. that particular attention should be paid to the granting of a non-employment card whether or not a broken job has been committed? What does that mean? It is stated that lawyers have a confidential duty to their candidate and so it is important to consider whether the charge has been committed in that area. But what if it was not? Is it better that the applicant's legal rights has affected other people than those who came to him? Is it better that fraud, misjudgment, or other punishments have taken place in his day - to - day life outside of work? You wonder, " Could it be right for lawyers to submit to the same conditions as judges and judges so that no exceptions are given, or the same conditions as others, such as accountants or governors? ' As mentioned earlier, though, there are several classes that need to meet certain conditions for employment outside the qualifications for education. Officers, captains, pilots need, for example. to endure many health conditions, but also pure criminal record. It's all over the system. The same can be said of the clergy of the National Church, who are not to be guilty of conduct that dishonors their opinion and is incompatible with priestly duties. Don't get me wrong. I'm very much into protecting that we guarantee human rights, that we will not interfere with human rights beyond what is necessary. The average value is gold. But so is the equality. How important it is that governments make sure that equality and average greatness are primarily what is seen in the case of legal laws! Some people whose bill is about losing the opportunity to command in office or positions permanently, without exception. Others lose their chance for five years from a penalties and still others just while serving their judgments. This is what I think we need to examine specifically, i.e. whether there are such different rules, some of which have highly estimating authority on the government, which is to be used with the bill. I think we need to check it here on the council whether there is a basis for the same line value for all, or at least to see if there is any basis for such espionage in the legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u131	A respectable president. We have a bill for a song about changing various laws because of a delinquency decision to get mad. In a sense, this bill is a logical continuation of the case that bombed the last government because of a failure to answer the break - up sexual abuse of the rise of some offenders and because no one wanted to take responsibility for the execution of these individuals. Then there is good reason to change the law so that there will be a clearer understanding of who is responsible for how and when people will regain their civil rights after violating individuals, especially when it comes to professional rights. I remember well the discussion that took place back then. Much of it turned out that we had a very old - fashioned view of when people should limit their access to positions of responsibility and what positions of responsibility were considered responsible, that it would be legally stated that the person acting in that position could not have acted in one way or another. This old - fashioned attitude was particularly concerned with the fact that these jobs included managing the money of the State but did not turn to other responsible positions, such as teaching or performing other tasks that are responsible for children or others who are less powerful toward those who have authority over them. That is why I mentioned in my resistance to the former legal guardians of the law who hear exactly the Ministry of Justice. It suggests that a legal requirement is that the individual should not have been guilty of criminal offenses, according to XXII. section which is a sexual offense. Actually, it's just got into the law. It contains, for example, nothing said about fraud or anything like that to a person who will then take on financial advantages over the legal feelings assigned to him to be a legal guardian. I would have felt that this was normal in view of the discussion that occurred at the time that it had, for example. They're also examined. I pointed to another thing that interests me about this bill, a change in the ballot to the state and general elections. To be elected to General elections and district elections, such individuals needed to have an unspotted reputation, but this is now changed so that the individual must have served his own sentence. It is then left to voters to determine if it is sufficient to represent the local government officer or general. This has far-reaching consequences, for example. Achieving on child protection committees is the same criteria as being adopted by local authorities. I wondered, " Am I to be elected to a child - welfare board if only recently finished a sentence, even for violations against children? ' This is something that I think would have been allowed to look at, especially if it was the highest history check. Ministers prove to be correct, and they have been working on this series since May, which I still have a very difficult time understanding, but let's call it a day. This is one of a few things I can see. I also agree with what you say. paritaprevir Helga Vaug Helgadóttir in this particular condition of law enforcement. I think it's a good idea to see if this is the right method. We saw in the sequence of events that led to the fall of the last government, saw in the project that had been used for rebellion, particularly this man, Robert Downeyr, used by the Supreme Court to judge him again, that there was no particular assessment of whether he was qualified for legal action, despite the fact that it could be totally possible to lead by the legislation that it might be, and should be evaluated as to whether it is considered of interest that a lawyer who has violated four teenage girls or five will be restored his rights. It could have been carefully evaluated, and I don't see how these legislation guarantees that this assessment will be conducted on some professional grounds, especially to the courts that were deemed on a very old precedent for another lawyer who had killed his wife, went to prison, and then brought back his legal rights some years later. Since it was not risky to restore a man's legal rights to him again, it was not risky to restore his legal rights to Robert Downey. I asked the highest. The Minister of Justice, in answer to a bill that the Minister intends to order this council to no longer publish the names of convicted sexual offenders on the site. I made this up because I am now going to change my terms so that the individuals will be elected as soon as they have served their sentence, no matter what the breach. How to be informed by the voters that e.g. if their names are not published, do they have sexual offenders? So, then, does this not mean taking some kind of special consideration? This is something that matters to me. I'm not going to extend my case much more than to find out what I listed earlier as a story explanation. Minister of Justice is to lead to this legal procedure. As to that, I'd like to say that it is the same with the explanation of the history of this bill, here's the totally overlooked part of the people who contributed to the development of these issues as the people of this series, the violations of Robert Downeyr, who insisted on receiving information, insisted that there be a change in this order to never again occur, i.e. that a man who had violated five teenage girls would get an honest and legal right without anyone being held responsible. They are not mentioned in this bill. Rather, it is indicated that the Supreme Court of Justice granted Robert Downey his legal rights again caused a discussion that somehow was the cause of this bill. Yet, there were individuals in the group who called themselves # leading this matter alive, who followed the direction of change and, in part, caused the Bjart's government community to work in the future, restoration, and the Independence Party to blow up as it has become famous. It's one of the things I find wrong with the top history check. The Minister of Justice and the report contained in this bill, their part could have been found in a sentence in this series as well as in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u132	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a nice speech and a review. It's just this about getting their legal rights back, and also getting his legal rights for the first time after committing a serious crime, whether the individual has committed it or not, the job of the attorney may be considered to protect the interests of offenders in various matters. Of course, we are a bit preoccupied with sexual abuse, but there are a number of other rights that are involved and important to lawyers. You may also be assigned to care for the rights of those who have lost self - control because of immatureness. Of course, we don't want to impair the rights of our citizens beyond what is necessary, but is our license, such as the civil rights of law? It's just a work permit, of course. We need to ask ourselves that question because we cannot expect to enter any form of service. There are conditions that must be met, and the Lawgiver can simply make that decision. Could it be that a certain group of lawyers, who just need a clean table, must not have a fixed tail? In order to obtain certain rights, it may be concluded that there are certain pieces that the relevant must not have committed, never, in order to obtain certain rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and would like to answer primarily that I agree with the question. A senator said that there should be a certain offense that the person should never have committed in order to obtain legal rights. I suggested that we do so during the brief 2017 assembly, but unity was not achieved for that bill. That bill thus suggested that the person be a lawyer should not have violated children sexually, have not committed homicide, and have not committed a serious sexual offense. It was these conditions that I set as basic criteria for a person's having legal rights, that they had not been guilty in this way. And then there were other changes, but they didn't come together, and that's why I ask so many times about it now, including because it was repeated, including of the highest. The CF minister of Bjarni Benediktsson's son, that there would be a lot more professions than only lawyers and a lot more professions, than this case of unspotted reputation and rebellion. We would have to look overall over the stage and examine all the professions alike. This is what I need for this bill, and that's why I'm still wondering why it's taken so long to do what I call 'Find and Replace' or 'Finna' and put in place of words, but it's really what this bill does; it's going through the whole law column in Iceland, and finds the words of an unscrupulous reputation, and it's putting in place some sort of trouble. How it could take a year and a half, I don't understand. I agree with what. A senator, law enforcement examines, and possibly they do not necessarily need legal rights if they are guilty of criminal action above their heads.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the discussion. It's informative, and hopefully it's useful. There are plenty of other chapters in the penal code where you can wonder if the person should be returned or usually given legal rights after serving a sentence, e.g. violations of privacy. Now, we've just been getting the most reported reports on how chasers have directly herded people out of the country with their families. We can think of a change in freedom. It is, of course, the sexual crime force. What about robbery? Every piece of violence? A lot of violence? Discriminate against the government? How would a policeman who has been involved in violence on the part of someone in the court who would then be a lawyer, a defender, or a court official, even a prosecutor, on the part of the government? They are somewhat special jobs, and they need to be in court, where the man in a court of law is the person who is or was a pain for the individual five years ago may be fully satisfied. We need to ask ourselves, " Is this ideal? ' Is it civil rights to be reassigned as an attorney after serving penalties? [[The president calls.]] I think the council has to discuss that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u135	Mr. President. Surely we can ask ourselves that question, and I know that there is some issue from the European Court of Human Rights that will handle this, a access to the legal profession, so to speak. As far as I can remember, there are references to a demolition such as this should not be premature and that some legitimate point of view should be the underlying issue of whether such rights can be restored. On this occasion, I would like to state whether the matter of violations would also have to be expected that a person who broke them would volunteer to the Generals and that his name was never published when he was sentenced. If the next prime minister of justice becomes legalized, the name of offenders should be stopped on sexual crime or on other matters. A senator mentioned, like a stalker. These are all issues that would fit into this new bill. Minister of Justice to stop publishing the names of offenders in so - called delicate matters. I wondered how the voters should know, if this release is stopped, and if the community should not be allowed to know whether it's choosing chasers or sex offenders or pedophiles at the council. This is one of the results of this bill in connection with another bill being announced. I'm a little worried about that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u136	A respectable president. In such matters, for years, decades, even centuries, had been low. These were matters that quietly went, were settled quietly, were settled in the back rooms, and went their way, and were returned to the rear entrance of power, instead of being in a position to use oppression for other people. We're going to suggest what we're talking about right now. They were that a group of people began to be loud about these matters, were not offered up, called attention to them, so that the whole nation heard, and the nation was given national attention. This issue is part of the trend. We share in joyful activities. I believe this case is an improvement and support. I would like to introduce myself to this public speaker as one of the members of the council, who are not legally educated and who can express my views on this matter and express my support for it. Let's get mad. This is an expression that I think is probably not a coincidence that no one realized when it suddenly came up in the social debate, so suddenly nobody came up and then nobody really got out of it. Get up. What does that mean? Let's get mad. It was an ancient word, almost Biblical. It was like something from the Bible, like Jesús came and handed Lasarusi'hand and resurrected him. In some way, you got the impression that someone would lie in the spirit, be resurrected, and you just say, "Go, and don't sin again. " Take your bed and walk. The person could then just go back to his job, even wrongdoing, as it were. This is based on a strange understanding of the word "glorious " because it is as it were. There will be no restoration of the minister of justice by public sources. It's not crazy. The years that surround us, our work, our conduct in life, our reputations we have, and not only how we fit in, how we impress others, how we focus on other people. It's our honor, it's our word, and it's all our marches. Officials cannot take part in this. True, they can give us certain rights, and we must not forget that when we arrive in this world, we are entitled to do so. We are born to countless rights that most of us have the ability to preserve and apply ourselves to open and free societies. Then people can fall victim to these rights by crime. Then they lose their rights and go to prison, do time, and then they come out of prison, and after that sentence restores part of their rights. That's how the state of justice works, and we all support it. Like what? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir and it's a little important that we talk about it, it's not a matter of fact that we've recovered all the rights we may have had before we committed the crime that caused us to lose our rights, to form the right to legal action. A person who is a lawyer is in a position of authority toward other people, is in a complex and confidential relationship with his clients, and can easily make use of that relationship in many ways if this person is a bad person. We have a special demand for lawyers because of this. This can not only, as I think this bill seems to be a little bit concerned, taking on financial commitments, financial advantages, or financial advancements, but it must also take other crimes. I can't say what I want to say by how I'm doing. A minister responded to what I felt was a very important and valid indication. paritaprevir Thorhna's Ævarsdóttir Övarsdóttir, that such conditions should also be taken to the teacher. That's when they said the highest. One thing is that after being convicted of a child's crime, a minister felt that it was, in effect, a random limitation of professional rights that a person would not be allowed to be a teacher. So I cannot agree that such limitation of employment rights is a random limit to employment rights, just not at all. It is not random, accurate, and important, and it enables us to continue with most of the classes that work with children. We're on this road, we're dealing with criminals and how we're supposed to deal with them. We also need to guard against human rights, of course. We need to be careful, as it were. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir pointed out that we have an equal honor and a moderate measure. I agree with it in all this matter, now as always.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u137	Mr. President. Because of what to say. paritaprevir The Lords of Thorsson, son of Thor, of a teacher, would do well to mention that in laws that have to do with teachers at all school, there are special regulations, including that the person hired for such work should not have committed sexual offenses against the sexual abuses of the penalties. That's very clear. It is not being changed by the bill, as is the case with various other regulations. The bill that such a person takes into consideration has been referred to as a false witness. Of course, there are special requirements in many other areas that are not reason to change because they have handled the problems involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u138	Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for the tip I'm considering. I repeat my thanks for it. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u139	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Congress members who have participated in this bill for the discussion. I hear it and realize that there seem to be different opinions on the bill, yet I miss the fact that people have described in detail their view of the matter in a material way. I think that it may be that while others feel that the regulations here are somewhat harsh, they are not even strict enough. It will be interesting to see how the discussion develops during the council and to see many factors. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, it's being discussed. I want to come in for a word. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Andri son of Thorsson, who mentioned that he had felt that the debate about ignominiousness in general has not been high in society over the years. I traced it in my history, though, that without having been a special candidate for this phenomenon or government in the past, I had a long time ago raised my clear attention because the news has, of course, been a regular source of news. There are regular reports of honesty being brought to the fore. It got a lot, or at least In some cases, an occasion for discussion about this arrangement. We may remember all of us sitting here, because of our position, after a discussion when our former colleague at the council got his nuts. So I don't want to say that the discussion went low. However, despite the discussions that have been over and over again, the project was never changed. This gives us a little thought because I remember criticism from various sources and speculations about that phenomenon. But now it's looking at everything for improvement, at least From our viewpoint, who believes that this was something unusual. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir puts out here a history story check, although she did not want to go out materially into what she called my review. She turned aside from the government work, which was in the last term and ended it, claiming that this was because of the failure of the issue. I have to make a note of this and I'm gonna let myself do it. Although she didn't want to make comments to what she calls my history check, I have to make a comment on the history of the day. Senator. It is not that the matter of violations was in all the way to the struggle, and to the nose as an example of what she disagreed and correctly mentioned, # capital, especially consult the Ministry of Justice or some explanation. However, in the summer of 2017, I took the initiative to make an announcement to me. There I had a very helpful, frank meeting with a violation of my ability and provided information for them, as they were sought. Although it may not have been on their part in the following meeting that they had such a meeting, it was still necessary for me to take the initiative to bring them to a meeting when I felt people were calling for information in the wrong places. That would have been more illuminating if they had directed their inquiries to the Ministry of Justice. I had a meeting with them, so it wasn't that violation tolerance was not answered, at least not on the part of the Ministry of Justice, on the issues then involved. I remember, however, that I had a useful meeting, a fine, informative meeting, with what might be the point. The General Board of Staff and Observation Committee, sent out live. It was September 19, 2017. At that meeting, there was a sharp decline. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir to my decision not to give a certain person a reputation, as I tore into my story, and had some legal questions about the problem. It was to be understood that she felt that it was extremely harsh and that equality had not been protected by failing to give up a sexual offender in its time. So I find it a little difficult to understand the material attitudes of some of the councilmen here. It is in either the ankle or the ear, too or not, and it is difficult to discern how one wants to look at such a thing. Hv. paritaprevir Of course, the debate that followed this Supreme Court, as I traced in history, is also the case of Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir. She weeps at something that she does not see in her report. I point out that it is stated in the report on this subject, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ Supreme Court's status brought up a discussion of the rise and the administrative activities that have been practiced in the past decades in the management of such cases. As a result of that much discussion, no one is unsure that the discussion of that subject had an impact on the procedure and progress of the case at the General Assembly, as I was doing in a discussion of history. Though I have made a decision to change the procedure and to be led by the Generals to do so, before this Supreme Court fell, it left my hands and was no longer in my custody when the council itself took the lead in the case and took the initiative to change the general penalties of the fall 2017, despite not being prepared with the necessary adjustment of the related issues now to the day. I can totally agree with the criticism. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir's claim that this bill could've appeared until it can't all be chosen. There are some viewpoints to look at the material and other activities that must be handled, but all of this is evident within the period when I felt it would be necessary to look to the final outcome. I'd like to reiterate this bill to represent the legal columns in which a person's reputation is specifically unscrupulous. I agree, however, that it may be a reason for others other than those who hear under the Ministry of Justice to take action in their own business if they want to sharpen something about the law on that subject. It has been pointed out that there are, of course, plenty of special requirements that prevent children from breaking up with one another, and so on. There may be a reason to extend it. That must be appreciated. It all depends on circumstances and reasons. But I don't think there's been such a change in this bill. Yet, there may be some rules, such as water. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir pointed out, e.g. On child welfare committees elected. There may be reason to add them in there, and I reiterate them to my wish. The General and Education Committee took a special look at these and other aspects that may come to the surface when further examination is made. I feel that there is some misunderstanding or unnecessary suspicion regarding the bill in the case of those who have emphasized that this is only a matter of work or office that has some place in the management of money. It is not that there was a particular viewpoint here, but, as I have mentioned before, it is merely a matter of delinquency in making an unspotted reputation the conditions of such activity. It is just an attempt to be moderate in the bill by not changing the situation of the rights, i.e. The material rights, although changing the form, are changing significantly on reimbursement of civil rights. The accountants were mentioned in some debates. Councilmen who want to compare it with e.g. The lawyer job. It is no wonder that humans agree with it and wonder why there is a difference. There is a difference between lawyers and accountants that lawyers and attorneys and lawyers are under the Ministry of Justice. The decision was made to agree with the Legal Society on conditions that would allow humans to receive their legal rights again. As I mentioned in my background, there was a request for legal advice from the accountants, from the Ministry of Accounters to make further adjustments, but we did not get any response. However, I do not consider it impossible to rule out a law on accountants and to consider, among other things, legal decisions. Of course, when moderate - minded attention is called, it also needs to be viewed as not that it is normal for all jobs to be the same, that is, moderate. On average, people need to take a look at events. The nature of the work needs to be viewed, and there may be more demands for one office than less for others. That's what needs a reason. The General and Education Committee to examine carefully. I look forward to seeing the results of the Commission's coverage and the continuation of the case at the General Assembly. I request good cooperation with the committee and the members of Congress so that the bill can be fulfilled in some form. The Congress may have quite a different view of whether the regulations are too strict or not, and it may be a distraction. It is not excluded that the bill will change what the council chooses to do. I call for good cooperation with the Parliament on this matter with the hope that the matter will be resolved by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u140	A respectable president. Still on history. V.E.G. The minister insisted that at the meeting of the Commission and the review committee, the one referred to here was that it had been bad at the highest level. A minister would not have granted the candidate who came into her table in his prime term, but he would not. I just want to correct that it wasn't. I just wanted to get out from a minister of sound evidence or proof that she had long begun to study this case because I thought it was rather late in the discussion. If it were so that a minister had decided to deviate from something called a administrative tradition or custom, then the natural one would have at least right to protest. No matter how I may feel about it, I thought it would be reasonable to ask, "Is this a matter as well as anyone else to have been followed in this matter? " I thought it was a perfectly normal question without me calling for an open meeting of the management and surveillance committee to give up a sex offender. I was simply asking how this process all came together because there was no information available from the Ministry of Justice, which no information would be available on these matters. to the prescribers e.g. We may be able to discern this perspective, which is obvious. But in terms of not having access to this information, I now have to say that open letters, number of articles, repeated interviews, and including Bergur Þór son of Ingólfsson's visit to the General and Education Committee, which made it clear to what he hoped for by the authorities, should be considered sufficient for the Supreme Court. The Minister of Justice to provide this information, but no matter what anyone says about it, it took the decision - making committee of information to defuse the secrecy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u141	A respectable president. Because people were discussing the story, I went back to this fine meeting that I sat at the Board of Directors and Observers on September 19, 2017, and I reviewed it. I remember thinking the tone of the inquiry as a question. A member of the council suggested a meeting that would make a person suspicious of the fact that a person had not yet been given up by an honest sexual offender. With the permission of a respectable president, I'm going to quote a question why. A senator I looked up here, but she was like: ▪ Although the law was not changed as a minister would normally be, a minister of 90 years ago decided not to give a reputation in a given case. A review by the Ministry of Justice was conducted by the Minister's Decision, i.e. refusing to accept credit, is it documented? I had explained that a law of penalties is completely set up in my opinion, given a warrant, and not an obligation to give away falsehood. At that time, I felt that I had some kind of tone or position that it was not normal to deny the reputation of the people who had applied for it to the Ministry. But it's good to hear that everyone agrees that that that system was out - of - date and all too original, such as roughness. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson turned up in his talk, unregisteredly opening the phenomenon to restore man to his civil rights. I just wanted to say this, and I wanted to make an answer for. A senator told me that I was not authorized to attend and received them and that I gave them information on all this project and this phenomenon, which I realized, quite realizing that many people were having trouble understanding the very ancient and difficult things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u142	Mr. President. The story is, I just didn't buy that this review had started in May, and I was trying to get some sort of solid evidence that it had actually started in May, before the people's history of # capitalism, before they began to bring it up. It didn't work out better than that. But that is not the case. For information requests from the highest degree of fracture tolerance. Pointing here to them, I felt that, first of all, a minister took part in his speech that somehow the violations had been hiding these meetings with a minister, that they deliberately chose not to report the meeting, and that they may have been fully awake. It was the highest. Minister to say that? Is it a minister to argue that such a meeting was concealed by the minister to whom they were being told? Second, I wanted to ask you whether it's the highest. At this meeting, a minister has been asked to provide information on references to Robert Downeyr and others who were given the credit for wrongdoing. Were the ministers asked to do that then? If he was asked to do so, was that not enough? Doesn't count as formal for the highest. A minister to think about doing so? Do the Commission need information so that a minister can provide long-term information on the rise of a guilty wrongdoer in their case?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u143	A respectable president. In my office as Minister of Justice, I met many people, receive people very regularly, dozens of people, even hundreds of them from the moment I took office. I have not at first informed about that meeting and will not do it. I have to say, though, that when I had a meeting with someone in connection with this discussion about growing up at the time, I felt hurt that a few days later someone was said to have no information from the Ministry. It was after sitting with me for a long time and with the members of the Ministry and getting the information asked to do these cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u144	About references?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u145	They may not have been asked for references. Of course, I do not separate from what goes on between me and others who come to my meeting, whether they want a meeting or whether I ask for someone else in this regard. Requesting case documents at the Ministry of Justice, including this case. A senator mentioned and gave this discussion about the summer, was supplied like other requests for private matters and may contain information that is not right to make public. We have every reason to believe that if the Department of Justice answered all those media, such as. in accordance with the requirements that came then, it would not have been in accordance with information laws, just as the Enlightenment Committee on Information Case concluded. There would be information that should not have been published and held in place. It was only one matter. There was an incident like that. There were also other topics that later the media wanted, and there were others. [[The president calls.]] It is important to keep in mind that circumstances require that we take a stand. [[The president calls.]] To keep it going again and again, I've had encounters with those who have been involved in these and other sexual abuses, even though they aren't always in the media. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u146	A respectable president. I also want to thank the minister of the matter and the history and the discussion that has taken place here. Because a minister called for a material position on the matter, I think it would be right to state, as some members of the council have made, that I find it urgent that we get to finish the matter in some form, as the minister put it, because if something is clear after tonight's discussion, it is that in many corners the matter is to look on as much as it is. I make a sound mainly because I took a note of one that the Minister mentioned in his case, that I think twice, in terms of a ministry other than the Ministry of Justice. Is it really so that the Ministry of Justice has been assigned to coordinate the Agency's response to a total law on decommissioning by law but has not been answered in at least two advisers about the chapters under which they hear? I must admit, I find it very strange and can promise the highest. Minister to the General and Education Committee will not accept silence from these councils. We call for comments from the person involved and expect answers from the councils to come here to answer. So I would like to ask the minister if this can be considered acceptable that there's one service assignment for all of them and then just stand out on the line and not get the help needed to complete this case so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u147	A respectable president. Although one may often be considered in this Assembly Hall, a great deal of faith is presented to the Ministry of Justice, and I am not surprised. However, as a matter of fact, the Ministry of Justice may not have been answered by silence alone. Rather, it was the conclusion of all who received a request for consultation or suggestion or a suggestion that it was possible to communicate with the Ministry of Justice on Laws, that it would be best if the Ministry of Justice laid the lines in this and changed the procedure as the Ministry of Justice actually suggested that the word was changed so that, in fact, the physical outcome was unchanged, i.e. It would still be for a five - year period after the execution of a sentence, and then only these rights would be automatically obtained. In the past, however, men had had to develop a reputation that had been granted automatically. So I pick up the check for other departments and even interest groups and professionals, it wasn't the silence that the Ministry's employees had, but the feeling that they might be better off setting up some exit point, and then they might be able to work each with their noses, as it is called. All I expect is for everyone to call it whiskers. The General and Education Committee, giving reviews or instructions or offering tips on what to do better. I like what I'm doing. Of course, a senator also expects it to be as important as this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u148	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. I'm glad to hear that I may have used her words here earlier tonight. However, the following statements have been made to several members of the conference that this may be such a tight approach to the subject. As someone has said, a law code has been passed and found every place that speaks of an unspotted reputation or a related concept is replaced by something more objective. There's also been a series of classes that might have lived under such an umbrella, e.g. People who work with children, whether they are teachers or people in youth and other professions. Now, the General and Education Committee is so lucky that it lives in a profession other than the Ministry so that I think almost any class that could be here under the General and Education Committee, whether it's classes that work with children or whatever it is now, who's stolen from me, at least I think that we in the General and Education Committee have the potential to be freer from it than the Ministry of Education that tends to be a wallier kind of thing. So I'd like to ask a minister if maybe we should approach this document as a very good first item of something that we could possibly expand. And whether the time ahead of New Year's Eve is not only fine enough to close this matter so well, so that we can control all the concerns we've been experiencing, not only during tonight's discussion but also a year ago when we were talking about it in much more context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u149	A respectable president. I think it'd be better to describe this bill - why. A senator believes that this was a way of finding an unspotted reputation, and this is a tight approach. I'd rather feel that it is more correct to describe it as a neutral approach, this is a neutral approach to eliminate this term, an unspotted reputation, which is undisputed. The result is this product, the bill, which is in my opinion with a transparent set of provisions for the restoration of these rights. So I think it's the approach. Hv. A senator, of course, also knows that in this regard, as mentioned at the outset, there are special laws on teachers, health professionals, about preschool teachers, and any class that specifically handles the position of sensitive groups. Of course I'm not going to tell the board what to do. I'm sure she's looking at this and calling for tips, but I think it might delay the case or make it unduly complicated to think of adding it to this bill. I think, however, there is every reason to use this opportunity and call for a response from these classes into the discussion so that they can be gathered. It may be a good preparation for the next step that could be a tapeworm, again, if thought of it, or so that each ministry would have it and then have some means of working out. It is just a very exciting project, as popularly puts it, and it is a challenge. I look forward to the discussion again. And once again, I want to repeat and thank you for the discussion of this turning point in my view of 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u150	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to the full layer of forest and forestry. The bill was presented for the 146th legislature in the spring of 2017, but it has made some changes in its report. The current forestry laws are over 60 years old and over many out - of - date, although their goals remain valid and undoubtedly continue. From the value of forestry law, forestry has become a major source of knowledge and ability to cultivate new forests in this country. Forestry is practiced in a country with diverse objectives, for example, to develop sectoral development, urban development, curfews, public health, maintenance and implementation of environmental quality, protection of forestes, recovery of ecosystems and greenhouse gas bindings, as part of action against climate change. New legislations that have a major impact on forestry have gone into effect, for example, on nature protection, organizational matters, the forestry of legislation, and the assessment of environmental impacts. It is important that forestry legislation be updated at the same time as the social development, which also involves innovation in forestry research and knowledge and information development. Deforestation laws must also take into account the international commitments of Iceland, such as the protection and development of biological diversity and the struggle against climate change. It is important that new forestry laws focus on increasing the spread of forestry and human health, the development of forestry for valuables, innovations and rural development, human access to forests and their positive impacts on human environments and human health, the effectiveness of forest environments, including soil protection, water protection, and biological diversity, and the role of forestry in counterweighting global climate change and forestry. Foremen for achieving all the emphasis are the protection and sustainable use of existing forests, the culture of new forests, and the recovery of forest ecosystems, and the potent research and development work. I'm going to explain how it was done with the bill's contract. In 2011, the then Environment Minister appointed a committee to be assigned to prepare a counterrequisite review of forestry law, No. 3/1955. The Committee represented national products in forestry, government forestry, Iceland's wood industry, and the Environment Ministry. The Commission submitted a report to the Environment and Resource Minister in June 2012 with proposals for the input of new forestry shapes. The committee consulted various parties. In 2014, the Environment and Resource Minister decided that a new overall forestisation bill should be won. A special field of consultation, as well as a representative of the Ministry, two representatives from the above committee, a representative of the European Union's Union, a representative of the National Association of Iceland and a representative of the Land Protection Agency were set up to prepare this bill. The project was published on the environment and resource websites by the wood management bill and was made available to send references and comments to its contents. After review of these observations, specific changes were made in the bill that particularly affects the protection of nature forests, the definition of terms, the permission of cataplexy, and the deforestation of forests, and the development of national forestry programmes. Then the bill has changed since it was proposed to a Council of 146th in the spring of 2017. That was a recommendation for the case and, after the end of the 1st. Refer to Environment and Transport Committee. The commission has sent the bill to review and has now reviewed the reviews and made changes in their view. An article with the bill will explain what changes are being made. I now review key changes from the current law required by the bill. The aims of the law include such factors as protection and restoration of biological diversity, sustainable innovation of forests, consistent with planning and nature protection, access of people to outdoor forests and forest values as counter-regulating measures to climate change. The report is for the development of a national strategy for forestry published by the minister. In the plan including to account for the choice of land for forest development in terms of nature protection, memory protection and landscapes, protection and restoration of nature forests, forest forests for building forest resources and areas, and for the use of sustainable forest use, the effects of forestry on industry development, and the availability of people for forestry. The minister is assigned to coordinate the forestry and land healing programme according to land healing laws. The national part-of-the-count strategy is also expected to expand forestry policies in the national programme and to be consistent with the strategy of rural society. There is a directive that the wood industry maintains a record of all the forests of the country and the role of the forest in the management of national forests and other areas under the control of the Agency. The woodforestation laws become part of the total forestry laws running this bill, but material is proposed to small changes in them. This section will deal with the protection, management and use of forests, in order to ensure their sustainable use and the appropriate protection. There are regulations that allow forestry to fall and for counterweight efforts to reduce or prevent the negative effects of deforestation. I'll now explain more about the priorities suggested in the bill. The bill presents goals that reflect changes in the forest development of the last few decades. Protecting and increasing the spread of nature forests, mostly birch forests, are put on the tip of the environment as well as its protection and recovery of biodiversity. This provides the basis for setting a policy for the recovery of ecosystems stored by the birch forests. The aims are also set out to develop a wide range of national forest resources and to provide sustainable use so that forest uses provide the most economic, social, and environmental benefits for society. In addition, policy targets are set out to conform to forestry and other land uses and for the different uses of forests, such as curfews and carbon binding. The bill assumes that a minister will publish a five - year - old national program at ten - year intervals in forestry. Government policy, with a national strategy, is set up to achieve results in forestry that take into account the objectives of the law. A national plan, therefore, is a basic government government control system and a consultation on deforestation in the land. The task management board will be implemented for the implementation of a national programme. Since there is a significant connection between forestry and land healing, Ministers are expected to conform to national forestry and land - healing programmes. In order to develop a forestry programme, the bill says that the wood industry, together with rural, farmers, and other stakeholders, will work a national participant program for each part of the country. A national part-of-the-count strategy is also an opportunity to consult, but a scale other than a national programme, with an expanded focus for parts of the country and according to local events. The bill then assumes that a culture plan leads to newly developed forests, which are supported by the State. A development program may be required to allow rural society to permit development of forestry. Among other things, reference to the national plan for forestry has been given to forestry, by the bill, the authority to support the deforestation of individuals, partners, rural partners, businesses, or others. This is a very important law and crystal the role of the forest industry in encouraging the public in the country to the forestry work. This law, however, is not about deforestation. Forests should be kept and guaranteed to be a forest file, which is largely based on the work of the forest industry, an Icelandic forest circulation, which is also the case. ... duetothe commitment of Iceland's climate agreement to the United Nations. National forests are defined in the bill as forests and countries under the Swamp, whether owned by state or private property, as further defined in Regulation 9 g. The law further explains the purpose of the State's special oversight of cultured forests and natural forests, which are not within other protective areas, as defined in the Regulation. Examples of national forests are Hallorm's standard forest, Va glasslands, Hakkar Valley Forest, and the forest of the Valley of Turbine. The whole section on deforestation is a grossly altered forestry law, which is here incorporated into the overall forestry laws to simplify. The law estimates that forestry will continue to be supported by laws that have been the largest forestry projects in the country for years. This includes contracts made up of Congress to 40 years of age. Chapter V is about protection, recovery, management and forestry. The first article of this chapter discusses the role of the Forest to promote the protection and restoration of nature forests in a similar manner to that of the present law. This change, however, enables us to define goals and priorities in a national forestry program that is regularly revised. The provision of sustainable forest use is set up in the law, which means that the annual fall of the forests should normally not exceed their annual growth, i.e. not to be taken more from the resource each time than rentan. It also requires that the management and implementation of forest conditions should be the most economic, social, and environmental benefits for society. The straggler's license stipulates that it requires the grant of the Forestery's permission to destabilize the forest or part of it. The current law states that a permit should be obtained for the fall of forests. This law focuses mainly on crops where folding means that the forest is under attack to preserve the resource. It is therefore permitted to bind deposit criteria to ensure the renewal of the forest. The permanent destruction of the forest does not involve a renewal, and it is prohibited according to the bill. This is true of cultivated forests and forests of nature. If deforestation is considered unavoidable, such activities should be announced to the Agency according to the legislation on environmental impact. The directive states that the candidate should conduct counterweight measures to reduce or prevent environmental impacts on the objectives of the law, such as the restoration of the forest or the culture of new forests. The law on forest control establishes a general rule that animals are forbidden to be used in forestry or forestry areas except by the permission of the local forest owner, since the forest or forested area is fenced to meet the conditions of fence law. The law would allow forestry to collect fees for the release of craws and as well as to collect expenses for certain national services. Such a service may be in the form of parking lots, roomers, and tents areas. The bill assumes that the forest can be used by means of means of forcedness measures to implement a provision under the law, especially in the case of foldies and permanent deforestation. In the same way, the authority to use government fines is directed to the same principles in the event of a crime. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u151	Mr. President. My business up here is mostly expressing my satisfaction with this bill being presented here. It's very ambitious and long-term, let me say, to get things going. But I'd like to ask you something first. I'll take care of it in 10. the bill that describes the contributions made by the Forest is specifically supplemented that these contributions include protection and restoration of the forests of nature. It may only be my ignorance, but I would have thought that protection and the recovery of nature forests would fall under a general contribution to forestry, and there would be no need for special action. Then I started thinking, it's a question where it leads, whether the purpose of this addition was to emphasize a higher priority for the protection of nature forests than it was in a previous bill. Then if I continue to look at points 2 to 2. the bill on the definition of this term, i.e. That's where, according to the President's permission, is a nature forest: ▪ The definition of the term natural forest is largely the same as the definition of the term forest, as well as the forest of certain types of trees produced without direct action by man. In most cases, birch forest land is present. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he believes that this new bill, especially in the light of these changes, could have an impact on the planned steaming team on the highest scale. The secretary of state and transport, or influence on the basis of the Roadmaker's design for recommending that the road be parked in Chef Forest. That's what I'm thinking. I'm asking the highest. Minister if it is possible that this new bill with these changes, if it is accepted, will delay further road reforms for which the southern West have waited so long. Is there any connection?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u152	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the question. With regard to the second question, on Road Road No. 60, I don't think it's connected. With regard to the other question, as asked in Article 10. considering that the forest industry can contribute to forestry, including the protection and recovery of nature forests and the sludge industry on the law farms, etc., is to say that this is merely a matter of paying special attention that, as contributions may have been more for the new jungles, they are being opened up here and reminded that the State's contributions can also go to the restoration and protection of birch forests. [[Up front.]] It's being drawn out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u153	President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to answer the answer and are happy not only to receive a clear answer but also to be content with the answer. Well, then my business is kind of over. That's the big thing I put my eyes into when I read this, and I'll just repeat my pleasure with the bill. The changes it has taken since last year were submitted are very good, e.g. the term definition of sustainable forest use. It is altered by the maintenance of biological diversity, production, renewal, and vitality of forests, the growth of biodiversity, the production, the renewal, and the vitality of forests. In my opinion, there's a difference between a stillness or a vision that seems to me to be the highest. Ministers have these matters, and I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u154	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator. I might not have had to go up there. [[It's a pleasure to see you there.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u155	Mr. President. In the beginning, I want to express my great satisfaction with this bill for the woodforest. It's about time. In 1955, however, the forestry environment is greatly changed. That was a year and a century ago. There was a news story to the next town if there were a few trees together. When I was in the country at the beginning of the 1870's, the Vega handbook specifically mentioned the town I was in there that had a fruitful tree garden. So when I looked at this tree garden later, there may be 20 trees in the back of the house together, but there was a reason to read it in the Vega Handbook. But my question doesn't lie to this. It's about 23. the bill in which the Forest Service is authorized to commit administrative fines to an individual or to an attorney who violates law 18. .. where it turns out that by folding forests, it needs permission from the forestry industry. I've always been irritated when people want to be police, when agencies are given police authority to fines and perform all kinds of things that should, of course, be under the police. Of course, if someone violates the law, the police should be reported. The police are to offer a guilt that does not take long and is not a complex process, but if you don't agree to it, the courts are charged with a fair treatment there. It's very fast, often during the season, the treatment of finesse. I'm asking a minister: Is it necessary ever and ever, and also in this bill, to give agencies in this town a guilty warrant?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u156	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Therefore, it is now to answer, as matters remain, that there is generally thought to be such a shorter way to achieve the purpose, to deal with offenses rather than to have it come to police and judicial hearings. There may be a brief answer to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u157	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Of course I know that answer, often heard it before, the short way, etc. But it's no long way to sue the police. The police take a report and then invite the officer to finish the case with a fine. This may take a few days. It's not complicated. If he refuses, he's accused on the basis of evidence. Of course, this may take some time, but then he will be given a trial of righteousness. What's the situation here? What is she like if a man has a problem? Which way does he go? Of course, he appeals to a superior government, possibly a minister, so it takes time to obtain a release there too. I repeat what I said. I have some serious doubts about this contingency, which seems to be in the legal capacity to give the other and these governments an all-time finership. I'd like to add the previous question a comment on the 22rd exodus. g., in which the forestry is also given power to force the implementation of day - to - day decisions. It is similar. I just want to ask, is this really necessary, and in what cases? And also regulations in the 21st chapter. where the wood field is authorized to charge a straggler charge, i.e. If any human is going to decompose a forest, he will apply for a straggler's license to the Forest and then the Swamp will take a price for granting the permit. I'm asking, is this really necessary? Where are we? Isn't this a little good in the park, the highest? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u158	Madam President. The Ministry assessment is also my opinion that it is wise to go this way, to have the forced exodus referred to there, in this case of day's fines, and then what we discussed here on government fines. I suppose that's what it is. A senator will adopt this in the discussion of the Committee and will simply direct it to the process, but he will reiterate that I believe that this is a natural arrangement for these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u159	Madam President. I couldn't let it pass for me to come up and celebrate the fact that this bill has been released. I was so lucky to grow up in forestry and planting. My grandmother, Magdalena Margrét Sigurðardóttir, was president of the National Park Institute of the Isendir for decades, and she was busy dragging us grandchildren on all kinds of projects. To this day, all of us are expected to learn to enjoy the forest environment. Of course, it was a long time, like the highest. A minister came in, that new laws should come out. As shown in the bill's report, the current forestry laws over 60 years of age and many out - of - date are still valid, although their goals are still valid. Happily, much has changed in forestry in Iceland and has knowledge and ability to grow new forests. When forestry in Iceland began, it was simply a joke, even claiming that Iceland didn't grow a forest. Happily, this has been proved false and is the modern - day forestry of a wide variety of goals, or as shown in the bill's report, by permission of the president: ...for industrial development, development development, outdoors, public health, maintenance and implementation of environmental quality, recovery of ecosystems and greenhouse gas bindings, as part of climate change action. I'd like to come into this last one, i.e. Climate change, but forestry is a very important part of Iceland's contribution to climate. Thus was recently published in the Bynh Bjornjarnadóttir of the University of Akureyri, Dr. Sigurgeirsson's Aðalsteinn writer of the Forest, Dr. Pétur Halldórsson, the PR manager of the Forest Farmer's University, Dr. Halldorson, found that data from the Icelandic forest industry shows that it was cultivated forested every year, on average, nearly ten tons of carbon dioxide per hectare in trees and soil. Forests grown on land, land broken, land ruined, or wastelands also stop the land's emissions, before forestry begins, thus increasing the general growth of the forest, and increasing biodiversity far beyond the forest. This shows the importance of Iceland's forests, both for Iceland and for its users, as well as for climate. In this article, there are many more interesting things to say, and I strongly recommend it. For example, measurements show that crops have a more positive climate effect than a peaceful forest. In sustainable crops, steady binding and climate impacts are two-fold, i.e. The carbon will bind in a new wood that is formed and if the crops are used instead of self - sufficient minerals, oil and coal, it will reduce net emissions. The latter must be obvious for Icelanders, but we need to import most of the wood we use today, so it must be interesting to increase the growth of Icelandic crops. As a matter of fact, it is a pleasure to observe how agricultural products are used in a variety of ways, e.g. as building material. When discussing crops, it is reasonable in the context of the importance of forest farmers. I'd like to roll it up and cheer it up. Parliaments on the Environment and Transport Committee to see if there is any reason to enter the law of some kind of definition of what a forest farmer is. The definition could simply be said to be a forest farmer who owns a forest, no matter how financed, i.e. The forest, not the farmer. The law could also define that all wood farmers had the same rights to the tax authorities, but today a woodcutter is being paid back for by himself. Madam President. I'd like to introduce the fact that forests are not only useful because of climate impacts or timber products. In the forests, there are so many more things that grow and thrive than a tree, which has exactly a positive influence in Icelandic society, including a tree. mention berries and mushrooms. There is nothing better than a sauce or a soup with Icelandic wild mushrooms or wild mushroom-risotto, where Icelandic raw materials and Italian foods work brilliantly together. As you can hear, I was also so lucky to have great parents who taught me how to use Icelandic molds. Not to be overlooked, but to the extent that there is an outdoor of wood. An exciting example is that in the north, where nuclear forests have become one of the most popular outlets of Akureyri, about 200 acres [800 ha] in size. At the start of forestry in 1950, the country was deforestated, something younger and younger of us have a bit of trouble imagining ourselves. Since then, 1.5 million plants have been planted and are owned by the town of Akureyri in the custody of the European Commission. In the nuclear forest, there are enlightened trimmways and footpaths, but what I find most enjoyable is that as soon as snow is cremated and tracked for hikers. Then the path is enlightened, allowing people and visitors to take advantage of the area even over the wintertime when the darkness is most overwhelming. Although I'm probably starting to sound a little like a nuclear forest salesman, I can't afford to mention all the other features, for example, a play area for children, a volleyball court, a barbecue complex, and, most certainly, not the first custom mountain bikes in the country. Thus, in a nuclear forest, it was successful to make a place where everyone can get along that everyone can take advantage of, whatever their interests may be. Madam President. There's a lot of other things I could mention and come on about this bill. Yet, I'm going to stop at this point and rejoice over the fact that the bill has been released. I hope this is better than last time, and the matter will be over at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u160	Madam President. We're here to discuss a bill to set up forestry and forestry. This new legislation is designed to replace over 60 years of age forestry laws. I'd like to start by saying that there's a lot of good things in this bill, and I'm very much in favor of the proposed suggestions, and I don't doubt that there's a full reason for it and that there is a need to update the law to the level of development in society over the past few decades, especially in terms of the increased environmental protection and natural protection laws. The main issues of this bill turn the nature of the issue according to the management department's management procedures inforestation, strategy and cooperation of public bodies and private partners in order to achieve the objectives of the bill as described in Article 1. It is. Madam President. I don't think there's any reason to make these things a special subject. However, I would like to give special attention and give my highest commendation. A minister has made adjustments taking into account the various comments made when a comparable bill was proposed to the 146th legislature Council and is well established. But the devil is in the details, as they say, and only on that tone, I want to pause especially two things in this bill that I believe are a reason to swerve here, the main reason, which applies to this bill as well as to other primes on this note. Madam President. This, on the other hand, is the persistent question that always arises when we discuss this bill on whether too far it is possible to restrict the rights of individuals, landowners, to form by means of the regulations contained in Article 18. The bill, which states that destabilization of forests or parts is forbidden, except by the permission of the forest industry. It can be seen that in some of the areas, there is more to it than the 6th paragraph. current law, No. 3/1955, at least the same information exists in this regard. The other thing I'd like to establish is the classic rating whether with the bill it's hiding the European Commission and the Commission too extensive a power or uncontrollably a decision that could lead to interference in the property rights and/or the city's employment rights after an incident. Madam President. In my opinion, little environmental protection works better than respect for property rights. It is hardly true anymore that individuals treat their possessions better than others. It is also true of nature when there is a clear, unequivocal right to the distribution of property rights. This is what I say to highlight the importance of the legal rights of the Constitution contained in 1 mg. 72. g. to her who states that the right of possession is holy, that no one should be obliged to give up his property unless the need for the public is public, for law has to be made and absolutely necessary. Of course it is, Madam President, that in spite of these instructions in 72. g. The constitution can provide the legal rights of certain limitations without the establishment of the reform rights. Understanding the timing of general limitations, without regard to reformal rights, and then ownership, pure possession, is a very difficult subject and, in my opinion, a mere reason, one Mass, to go over the main points of those topics. Tax or some kind of money - related capital is a classic when we discuss this, and of course there are other factors to consider. Then you might ask yourself, " Is the possession impairment of property more or less significant, whether it has great or little financial significance for the person involved, whether it affects many sources or any particular group or one specific person? ' At that time, social situations must also be looked to. In recent years, increased attention has been given to a so - called moderate - control rule, including a system of government. for influence from the European Court of Human Rights. This means that we limit the right of property to the government should not go beyond what is necessary. The rules apply both to the use of instruments such as ownership and to the evaluation of the limitations of property rights are general or non-general. I believe all evidence is that a comparable moderate rule will lead to 72rd degree. the Constitution as it is clearly in accordance with the European Convention of Human Rights. I'm gonna mention this here, Madam President, because I'm wondering if I'm 18. The bill takes into account enough of the administrative principle involved. The ban on the folds of forests or parts of them except by the Swamper's permission is really unscrupulous. It is thus assumed that even a small portion of its forest would be needed to apply permission for such a provision. Then it doesn't matter whether the owner has a legitimate reason to destabilize the forest on a limited scale. This may be possible because he intends to use his estate more wisely, so to speak. More fences may need to be built to protect even larger interests. He might want to expand his land, etc., or simply intend to grow a forest in another area. It doesn't seem to matter in this arrangement if falling on a part of the forest on a particular property is possible to be just a fraction of the total forest cover on the same level of land, perhaps just a small fraction. The 18th floor. The bill's no good. Then I wondered, " Is it necessary to go too far? ' I feel that there is no doubt a way to reach the targets of the target on the bill, and I do not comment and agree with other means, possibly less. One idea could be that in 18th. should be set in some appropriate size or reference based on an area of lower forest. In other words: If a forest needs to be dejected from a certain size, it must be applied for permission for the wood industry. There is also a set threshold of some kind of material content that is moderate in size, but it is also necessary in my opinion to provide convincing evidence that public need requires similar restrictions on the rights of an individual. It must be explained how public need is involved. I believe that there is no urgent public need to limit forest owners' rights to bring down a small portion of their forest. That's not a public need. Of course, the matter is completely different if it is a very vast and large area covered with a forest that some landowner intends to take for no reason. There is this balance between public needs and the property rights of the citizens I'm calling after we pay more attention. Madam President. This is evident, therefore, from what I have considered here that I do not fully agree with the evaluation presented in the paper with the bill, which discusses the harmony of the bill to the constitution. Similarly, I would like to note that the text of the report may not be clear as to which the bill is listed here because the text in the report indicates that it is pointing to the 75th paragraph. The Constitution that deals with employment freedom. The report puts it word for word, with the permission of a president: The regulations of this bill regarding the protection of forests and stragglers are of the same nature as other general limitations of property rights, such as the requirement for implementation or other organizational requirements, required for public interest... That's quite fine and fine text, except that's actually my opinion straight to 75. g. The constitution, not 72. c., end of the allowing force that is further laid aside for the limitation of public interests. Thus, the 72nd gr. doesn't have a public interest rate. The constitution. It refers to public needs. It is true that these are similar to terms both ecstatic and social interests, but these are not exactly the same points. Madam President. The other point I would like to mention is the question, Can I be considered as an arrangement of 18. The bill has the potential to include an over-expansive extension to the European Commission in the event of any interference with the ownership of the involved. Orders of the Constitution of 72nd par. will not be interpreted as different, so that the general legislator is prohibited from hiding an unregistered decision for the scope and scope of the rights impairments that are believed to be required in law. In other words, the lawgiver must consider principles that require some of the scope and scope of the rights to be affected by such individuals. The only physical condition that can be found in Article 18. it has to be evaluated for the use of a fold-up application in accordance with Sustainable Use criteria and referred to in 2 mgr. 17th par. It stipulates that forestry should provide the most economic, social, and environmental benefits. This is all very good, but it is merely a direct reference to a law-enforcement point light. This is a very conservative law when considering the framework of governance in this case. Whether such structure of law meets fully the requirements for the legislation in this way is carried out by the Constitution is unquestioned. I think it's a job for what it is. The Environment and Transport Committee should carefully consider the handling of this bill. Finally, Madam President, I would like to come on, as has been done in this case, a point of forced custody and the government fines of the 22nd and 23. I believe there is a lack of better logic in the report for the day's fines. This amount of money is worth 500,000 a day's pay. it's a very burdensome plan. There must be some further logic, at least A clearer explanation of how governance in this case should operate so moderate and equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u161	A respectable president. I'm not going to have a conversation with you. A senator on the possible interaction of this bill and its constitution. Like what? A senator rightly pointed out that there is something waiting for him. The Senate Committee to review. However, when I heard a voice, I asked to give an answer. A senator speaks of the property rights mentioned several times and refers to the one he was best at achieving success in climate... sorry about the environment, because it was long proved that what he had was better. [[Up front.]] [[Environmentally.]] I don't know what you're doing. A senator defines as an environment. It might be nice to get a better explanation. I would have thought that the lesson we could draw from the situation in general, I'm going to let myself tell the world, when it comes to environmental, climate, nature, and so forth, would be that the right of property, and how we make each one of us on it, would be in charge. What would have been missing would be a greater view that each of us might be willing to yield a little of our limited ownership rights for greater interests. I'm not going to discuss it in the context of this exact bill. It was what struck me because I thought we were in that place right now just having to start over the property rights, in view of the disturbing global situation when it comes to climate and environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u162	Madam President. Hv. A senator will introduce some very pleasant points that may be trying to answer as best he can. I think the greatest threat to the environment, nature, has ever been a curse to the public, a curse to the public, where there is no clear right to possess such a responsibility. On land. I think that's the biggest environmental threat we've ever faced. It is enough to take a look at what we did to fish our resources until the words of the saying system, or the limitation of a movement to protect the environment, where there was a so - called parish or Olympic fishing because there was no right to use it. I don't think it was good for the environment or the environment in the ocean, but it was the main reason for the words of the peddler system to master the environmental threat the resource faced at that time. It is this curse of the common people, that men don't respect other men's goods or show indifference, which is, in my opinion, so bad. That's it, Madam President, which I was referring to in my speech and hoping to do. A senator is more specific. I don't think that the project we're facing to make up on the climate, the projects are huge, and I wholeheartedly agree with a senator in it, is to supersede over the property rights. On the contrary, it can be of great importance to find this balance between when it is appropriate to limit human rights and then to balance human rights on their own property, land, or environment. It's this interaction that I think is important. I agree. A senator to see that the project is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u163	A respectable president. It's not surprising that me and what. A senator does not necessarily share the same view of the importance of property and whether we should exalt ourselves above it in order to view the general population. We have often had conversations in this chair. The curse of the public, a respectable president, is. A senator and is likely to refer to the areas that have been defined as common, many of which can be found. I'm going to allow myself to say the curse of the public, i.e. People, they were strong property rights. Should we view industrial revolutions in which, in effect, property rights across land, even over labors with very little hidden slavery, the great ball we are still dealing with, which is global warming caused by greenhouse gas emissions? It was not because some region were defined as having no ownership of them. But the common people, we can have a view of the local people. In many respects, I regret those areas, and I disagree. A senator that in those parts of the country, he must have found something we have to deal with today when it comes to environmental and climate problems, such as this. For example, we are seeing to it that we are expanding national parks that are finally common today, although the government's ownership of them is quite clear. I think our work on climate matters is exactly in stopping thinking about these old, out - of - date thinking paths that I find difficult to reason with. A senator approaches this problem. We need to approach it with the whole economy in mind, not every one of us in one specific area, one firm and profit, but the community goal of all of us. That's how we have to get over the problem, because it's so bad that if we're gonna deal with it according to these old methods, I'm gonna pray for us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u164	Madam President. Hv. A senator enters the very best social quality in the world. I'm not to be misunderstood, and I say, I'm not against the public as such, but it's been in the public because of the lack of certain rights of possession, the danger of being maligned by the public. Is it not true that climate is a very clear example, since the atmosphere that we breathe is publicized, so to speak, that is, public quality? Therefore, is it because of the spread of greenhouse gases that people ignore? This is the very point and way that the world's kingdoms are trying to figure out how to change these benefits, i.e. bringing about air emissions of greenhouse gases and what is just the way man has dealt with public quality or public quality damage, which includes the rules of property rights and its significance. I'm not going to be in any further dispute with v. A senator. I think we agree on our objective. We may disagree on some avenues. I don't think it's wrong to look at it so narrow as to blame it solely on property rights. It is much more likely, then, to view the dangers that result from having a poor public quality because they do not have a clear right to possess them. I'm going to let myself at the end of the opponent point out, and my opinion is that if the government in its empire had not taken possession of its authority, there would not have been a requisition of property. That activation would never have been performed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u165	Madam President. I don't know where to sneak into my speech, but fine. The importance of healthy and well - distributed forested land is in doubt. This was shown in the case of the highest. Minister, and more, actually. Named was forest as resource, soil protection, and maintenance of biological diversity, outdoors, and human culture, as well as our natural carbon binding and goals, both the Paris Convention and the ambitious goal of having Iceland without 2040. But no one has mentioned one thing that is of utmost importance, and that is what we can call local weather and that is, in particular, the leading of the forest. We could use it in Iceland where weather is the way it is. We can take the city itself as an example of such areas, or well - forested areas, in many parts of the earth and the way forests run and improve weather conditions in our own eyes. However, these few percent of the country, outside the glaciers and lakes and currents - these are just a few percent - are of great value. These are birch forests and forests with foreign trees. It is of great importance that they have one thing that is very strong and that is the binding capacity of different types of trees, the relatively rapid growth of birch, which is thin and microscopic, and some of which are fast - growing, as well as other slow - growing trees. But these species bind much more carbon than birch. We need to carry it with us as we discuss the ratios and the support and the like because it really is important. I would like to highlight the many roles of everyone involved in this event. It's the public and the general community. It's a business. They are already supporting both forestry and e.g. Wetland recovery. It is very important to consider how a company's will can get. Although this law does not fit in specifically, it should be identified simply because it will contribute to the growth of forest and the increased recovery of wetlands. It's also the locals. The strategy of rural society is gradually developing. I mention the latest thing I know about, garden and Sandmaker, who have created a highly ambitious environmental program and are entering the forest forests of the Central nature area and the environment of both Sanddor and Garðin. This is very important in this regard. Then we come to farms, wood farms, and to the use of the forest concept and its sustainable development. Then there are old figures on the size of an adult forest land, 10 to 15 ms of trees needed to make Iceland almost self - sufficient as it touches wood. That's only 400 miles. So, there are a couple of pieces that combined, if they moved together, would be 20 miles onto one side and 20 miles to the other. If we think of this region in Iceland, we will see that it is not too far from us in decades, 5, 20, 50 or 100 years, depending on the type of tree being used. It is very important that further encouragement and cooperation with a clear goal of sustainable timberland on this island follow the thinking of these laws at least. Madam President. It is absolutely necessary to revise the laws given at the time. It has been tried several times, reinvented and rebuilt at one time, and now it is time for the version that we are facing to be able to achieve enough, according to the opinion of those who have spoken and can finally begin to produce it in a simple, well - structured structure. I support the contributions of the bill that now goes on. Named. There I'm expecting a sleazy release and then again at Congress itself when it's over. I'd really like to shoot in a few words about property. It depends on what a person has. Of course, we want to be treated with him with respect, but we do have limitations primarily on what is human. You can own oil wells. So, then, is the right of possession sacred? A land they don't want to make up can be badly ruined. Is the right of possession then holy? They can own a forest that binds carbon and wants to cut it down to some extent. Is it also the sacred right of possession? What about water or water supply? There's a law that says we're all entitled to fresh water, and there's a limit to property rights. There are countless such factors. Whole party can be a part of human experience. When it comes to property and then back to public rights, it's not as simple as what it is. Einarsson I was on my way to bed before I did. Other than that, I'll let it be over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u166	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for bill donation. I've heard senators love the bill, and I don't doubt the importance of rethinking forestry laws. I think that all of us in the hall must agree on the importance of forestry and, in fact, land healing, especially at times such as this when it is clear that we must respond very rapidly to the climate crisis. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, since he came in, also matters what is being planted out of carbon: colic. A senator's handling of the bill is sufficient, or does it need to be added? Besides, I can't pass by asking why. A senator I know has long been interested in the issues, whether or not there may be a reason to watch together the institutions we address here, i.e. The forestry and the next item to be discussed, i.e. The land transplant. To me, these are institutions that have some kind of similar goals. I have wondered if there was some kind of financial gain and also some professional advantage if they were in one institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u167	Madam President. To answer my first question, I think it's sufficiently in the law. Active carbon binding is covered and emphasised on sustainable forestry. Of course, I believe that the ratios in each area are also dependent on growth conditions and countless other items of the forest experts. I'm expecting that when it comes to determining if there's a bear forest or a mixed forest or just a bar forest or anything, it'll be done in a professional way and I don't think it has to be in the law. In fact, regarding the unions, I was going to discuss it under the next team tonight, but let it go. I've always been involved in the resource use of land -- now I'm not talking about traditional agriculture or anything called food crops, but everything else, i.e. forestry, land transplants, recovery of land quality, mining, peaceful territory, national parks, and so forth - are under one government resource agency. The other is so different that the current situation does not have time to do all the work it takes to do so. That's years of work, in my opinion. Now it is time to update the two laws we discuss. The other is a little future work that I hope will take a little first step with a future National Park Institute, or what we call it, which is in the load.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u168	A respectable president. Hv. Senator. Clearly, I was just too anxious to have the senator's response to the unity of these two institutions. It'd be interesting if it was the highest. A ministerial servant might bring it into his talk afterward if he sees a future in it. Thank you. A senator's answers, and he wants to use this opportunity, and he says, "I'm glad that these bills have come along, and I think it's important that they'll be done, because it's taken quite a while, as they've already been in, and it's been laid in place before. " I don't even realize if I have a direct question for a reason. A senator. I appreciate the answers, and I think I'm gonna call it a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u169	Madam President. This is natural fun when members of the Parliament agree well with one another and enjoy being polite to one another. I would like to remind you, though, that there are voices that say that forestry belongs to the Department of Agriculture and that there is absolutely no need to have a special institution under the forest, that there is no need to be under the same hat at all. Actually, as mentioned, I disagree. I think that in order to integrate right relationships, let's put it this way, sustainable development around the country and these resources, to skip the normal habitats, it's just that it's on one hand. In fact, I would go further and count basic research on biodiversity and tell them geology and so forth - I'm actually talking about the role of the European Natural Institute of Resources - also under the specific resource agency and is the scientific foundation upon which it operates.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u170	Madam President. First, let me describe my joy in knowing that the bill falls into good soil here at the General Assembly. A great deal of work has been done with many members for a long time. I'd like to highlight one point in view of the discussion that has taken place and that the variety of forests and, above all, the importance of foresting is considered to be biological diversity. Therefore, I would like to reiterate that we can not only look to the extent to which individual species bind much but also to bear in mind the overall context of what other goals we are achieving, such as biodiversity and the recovery of land quality. This is where it came up to determine if special forest farmers would need to be defined. I may not be going to talk about it, but I would like to ask the question against whether there are other laws on farms such as pig farms, farms, etc. and what would it really serve to put this definition into place, something that is wrong. The environment and transport committee will no doubt look at them. In terms of reimbursement taxes, they indicate that there are, of course, tax issues that could be considered elsewhere. I'd also like to mention those points as well. paritaprevir The Teitur Björn Einarsson came in with an 18th parr. they're trying to ensure sustainable forest management, if we can say that, i.e. We need to consider how much carbon is bound in the forests of our country. There are books to keep around them and them in connection with the forest file. Therefore, it is important to keep track of how much forest is being cut down. Only with regard to the unity of the strains. I believe now that it is most important to complete the task of uplifting the laws regarding forestry and forestry as well as land healing. This is the most important task today. There are, of course, some differing opinions on what should be combined if cohesion occurred, whether it was a resource institution that would be used for forestry, land healing, and nature protection, or whether forestry and land healing should, for example. To be together. Whatever may happen in the future, it is important that we update these two legal columns so that the law has become more effective today, and then the rest of the discussion can be taken later. I want to thank you. The members of the council are very, very eager for the topic of discussion, and wish why. The Environment and Transport Committee will succeed in its discussion and will allow me to hope that the bill will be released from the Council for New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u171	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to a whole layer of land healing. The bill was presented for the 146th legislature in the spring of 2017, but it has made some changes in its report. The current land - healing laws are over 50 years old and are about many out - of - date. Despite the advances of the time, several factors have been identified, especially in the efforts of the government to intervene in unsolvable land use and prevent the deterioration of ecosystems. Since the legislation went into effect, research has shown that the state of the land in this country is bad for soil erosion and decay of vegetation and ecosystems function. Diagnosis-related legislation has taken place since the current land healing legislation was adopted. In particular, there are new laws on nature protection, planning laws, and the assessment of environmental impacts. That's when land use has changed substantially at the same time. It is important that new agricultural laws take into account the social changes that have taken place over the last 50 years. It is also important that new land - healing laws take into account the goals that the world's countries have set out to achieve, such as to stop the erosion and restore ecosystems that have been disturbed by previous land uses. Clearly, land - healing laws with both nature protection laws and bill to new forestry laws are significant. Thus, all these laws will contribute to the protection of the environment, the sustainable use of resources, and the recovery of damaged ecosystems. It is also important to focus on how things work between the establishments but also on the fact that individual subjects will not be left out. I'm going to explain how it was done with the bill's contract. In 2011, the current Environment Minister appointed a committee to be assigned to prepare a counterrequisite review of land healing laws, No. 17/1165. The Committee represented the State's Agriculture, the Baving Association of Iceland, the National Farmer's University of Iceland and the Environment Ministry. In June 2012, the committee consulted with the emissaries and raised an open seminar and gave a report with its proposal to the minister. In 2014, Environment and Resource Ministers decided to provide a new overall legislation on land healing based on available proposals. A special field of consultation, as well as a representative of the Ministry, two representatives from the above committee, a representative of the European Union's Union, a representative of the National Association of Iceland and a representative of the Land Protection Agency, were set up to prepare for this bill. The project was published on the environment and resource websites by the National Relations Act and was given the option to submit references and comments to its contents. In all, the Ministry received 15 reviews, and the bill made some changes in their view. Then the bill has changed since it was proposed to a Council of 146th in the spring of 2017. That was a recommendation for the case and, after the end of the 1st. Refer to Environment and Transport Committee. The commission has sent the bill to review and has now reviewed the reviews and made changes in their view. An article with the bill will explain what changes are being made. I now review key changes from the current law required by the bill. There's a lot of sharpening the targets of the law, including... taking into account new challenges. It thus discusses what should be considered for the protection and sustainable use of soil and vegetation and the recovery of ecosystems. The bill states that the name Landing of the State will turn to Landing. It is expected that land - healing programs will be implemented until the age of ten. It will show how land transplantation is best supported by industry and communities in the country, how country's quality is maintained, and how to promote ecosystems that have been reduced. Similarly, regional programmes are proposed to provide special and focus on national areas. The law will require that the State encourage participation in the protection and recovery of ecosystems in line with the developments that have been developed in the past decades, contributing to what is called an inclusion approach. There are detailed regulations on how sustainable use of the land will be most assured. For the purpose of a regular assessment of the state of the country and the effectiveness of land healing work, the criteria for sustainable land use should be set and the implementation of a strategy for reform where agriculture is not sustainable. There is also a directive to put initiatives or land use on land ecosystems that are considered important for vegetation and soil protection to prevent or control environmental impacts. Special section is about the role of the State in the management of the land due to land healing, the country owned by the State, and the country's private property controlled by the government as agreed with its owner. The law aims to simplify their management, to better define State oversight goals, and to reduce this position of oversight in a private country. I will now make more clear the emphasis the bill makes. The bill set out the primary objectives for the protection of vegetation and soil, the recovery of existing ecosystems, and the addition of the resources stored in vegetation and soil. It also requires that a sustainable use of a country, which can be said to be the center of the law. Thus, you will find more detailed targets for the protection and sustainable use of the land than previously established. For one thing, consider the principle that the first way to avoid damage to vegetation and soil is to avoid contamination, but if at all possible, such damage will be added and the one causing it to damage. The need for the general public to participate in land healing, which is the most targeted way for land healing to succeed. At the same time, aims are set up to build crops and soil resources instead of those lost here on land, i.e. with the recovery and development of ecosystems on land, with access to as many as possible. The main changes proposed and the management of agriculture are in the creation of the Agency's name, but also on the authority to work on land healing development, e.g. with research and development work but no such warrant can be found in the current law. A land - healing program is designed to support future vision and government policy on land healing. The government's aims should be made aware of the best use of the land's services and habitats in the country, how to preserve land quality and how to promote and recover the less advanced ecosystems and provide suggestions for the change in land use, e.g. amenorrhea for a specific method of application where appropriate. Therefore, this law plays a key role in land - healing policies. Regional programmes will implement a land healing programme for each part of the country. They should remain off land healing in collaboration with rural areas and other stakeholders. In line with the objective of the law, land healing is authorized to support the land - healing work of others. It is important that such a warrant be given, but under this arrangement, such projects as Farmers and Farmers'Farmer Service Fund, where farmers, other landowners, and others are supported by land - healing work. The minister is expected to confirm more fully with the Regulation on what support is involved. Sustainable land use is the basis for laws on land healing, on the one hand, to ensure that the use of the resources in the country does not lead to the decomposition and decomposition of ecosystems that have been disturbed at various times in the history of the land, allowing for renewal and normalization, relative to existing conditions, such as weather and soil. Therefore, the decision is to determine whether ecosystems in a very poor condition should be used and to ensure that, where conditions have deteriorated, there is a guarantee of remission. Land transplants are expected to continue to play a surveillance role. This stipulates a systematic collection of information on the use and impact of this information on land conditions and the effectiveness of land healing in general, including carbon binding from the atmosphere and protection and maintenance of biological diversity. Thus, there is a wide range of information collections, which are useful in assessing sustainable agriculture and effectiveness of ecosystems support and recovery, including measured by the binding of carbon in soil and vegetation. The bill expects to set up a Regulation on what may be considered sustainable land use. Guidance on how to implement land use is also provided in order to become sustainable. Such guidelines can therefore be used for different uses on land, such as livestock, agriculture, traffic, and vehicles, etc. This type of reference is known in Icelandic resource management, e.g. for the cod population. These criteria will be based on the evaluation of sustainable land use. If land transplants feel that innovation is incompatible with sustainable land use criteria, the Agency is expected to request and guide the preparation of a so-called agricultural strategy. A agricultural strategy may include time-to-treat measures aimed at improving the state of the country, e.g. by relieving or reducing the amount of soil from the fields. This is an alternative that is not meant to be a major burden but that triggers a process for improvement. However, if a owner or a judge fails to fulfill this obligation, the Agency should ask for a list of laws on reservation, mountain cover, or other matters, in the field of application, or on restricted traffic, to be involved in causing damage to land, as in the laws on nature protection. Thus, cases requiring reform and not adequately addressed according to land healing will be referred to a administrative procedure under other laws. There remains another use in the country, such as agriculture, which cannot be referred to any administrative procedure. It is therefore assumed that land healing will be able to use forced measures according to Article 24. to force and follow the development of a new agricultural plan. In accordance with the aim of the law, efforts are required to prevent and reduce the growth of vegetation and soil. The directive thus allows for the decision to implement such projects as this to be considered to be the objective of the law and to emphasize the importance of the construction and protection of vegetation and soil or ecosystems and to provide adequate protection by protecting or restoring vegetation and soil in other places. This may apply, for example, to a bug in wetlands, in valuable vegetation, or in landless land because of extensive construction. It is suggested that the regulation in accordance with the permission of the Member State should be in accordance with the requirements. As a result, valuable ecosystems can require recovery of a much larger area than is disturbed. This can, for example, happen. ● An important source of vegetation in a highly damaged land is the life - sustaining wetlands. Farming is still assigned to reduce or stop the destruction of vegetation and soil, as well as to promote the recovery and support of ecosystems. This is in line with the international commitments of the Icelanders under the Convention on Biodiversity and the United Nations World Goals. However, there is a need to sharpen individual targets, where to attack the recovery of ecosystems, and what to do. This set covers all ecosystems, including wetlands, that have been disturbed. The directive also allows land healing to agree with the national rights of the country on action in line with the objectives of the law, particularly where rapid soil erosion is threatened or damaged or damaged by land or by human activities. These events may occur, e.g. followed by volcanic eruptions and floods in the glacier. The anti-defilmation laws are passed on to land healing laws as per the bill. Materially, only minor changes are involved. A procedure to ensure that land healing is to be carried out by the executioner of protective measures has been concluded. Therefore, it is assumed that the Member State will be a candidate unless there is a very large number of projects involved. The bill sharpens the purpose and aim of land healing, whether owned by the government or by the private. It also stipulates their decision to be treated, including traffic and bait. In this way, land - healing areas will receive a formal place as areas of protection. The land transplant has a considerable number of contractable land - healing areas within its control, and the bill is designed to encourage the restoration of contracting land - healing facilities in the management of the country. In this way, the provision of land healing is primarily required in other ways. The 22nd paragraph. The bill covers a country under the control of the State's land healing. This may be a country where Iceland's soil has taken possession of land for healing on the basis of Article 7. Law on Agriculture, No. 17/1965, or older songs, No. 18/141 and 45/1923, respectively. (b) How was the Law given, and how was it fulfilled? 81/2004, where the retailor of the former Member State is expected. Farming will still set rules for the treatment of the affected areas, which include: Based on sustainable land use criteria. The requirement is to obtain land - healing rights that include collections of service fees to cover the costs of services in the Agency's territory, such as the campsites, parking lots, and toilets. It is also suggested that land transplants be authorized to use means of forcedness to implement a provision under the law. Above all, it is law 12. On sustainable land use and agriculture programmes. At the same time, land healing is suggested to be authorized to rule guilty. Such fines would be considered in case of violation of Article 12. The law. The requirement for possession is comparable to that of the current agricultural law, No. 17/1165. The decision to take possession of land is a serious operation and should be well planned. A continuation of land healing is necessary, i.e. that the Agency will be permitted to take possession of land if necessary in the light of the laws. This should be kept in mind, though, that the decision to obtain a possession is expected to be the last resort, i.e. that if the contracts of land healing are fully inadequate to be met by the land owner or the rightful authority and by areas of high public interest, it can be taken into consideration. In terms of changing other laws in connection with the bill, it is said that there is a change in the law of delinquency, mountainpost, etc., where there is any doubt that land healing can require a national decision that will not be followed or that it will not be made. In addition it is suggested that thematic approach should be based on guidelines and policy-making criteria, such as Article 11. the treatment of agriculture. This is an important change and replaces an out - of - date rule that counts should be determined to be completed in the country, not overorganized, in relation to exercise tolerance. Instead, there is an in-depth control of the use areas in which the application time may be included, the number of baits, the peace of local areas, etc. It is also expected that land where the Italians have been determined will be monitored for soil and vegetation status. This is a great improvement of old laws, but it does not affect the current system of operating. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u172	Madam President. This is where we'll discuss a bill on land healing. I'd like to thank the Minister of Environment and Resources for that. A land transplant in Iceland, such as not centuries of history, has more than tens of years of history in which people began to nurture the land and try to recover what had once come from the weather, volcanic eruptions, and overuses on land, whether it was useful to forests or to feed cattle. I am one of those who are very interested in land healing and who have practiced it considerably in my work. In view of this, it is worth a mention of Bjords'project that, if I remember correctly, about 660 farmers are on that task, apart from those that are also involved in agricultural projects. If we look at things as they are, so to the future, and connect the chemicals that turn to carbon emissions and recovery in carbon, that's my opinion, and I suppose a minister agrees with me in that, it's our most powerful tool in equalizing, as one says, in this carbon account. To add even more to land healing. There we have a tremendous task to do. What we lack when it comes to this group is largely capital. We don't have the will to make the land, but most of all, the money we lack is the money we lack, and I hope that a minister can tell us a little more about it from here on how much money he earns in this suit so that we can deal with it, for the discussion of earlier years was dealing with forestry. When it comes to land healing, we can close our wounds more quickly. We can even plant forests there in the future, making it easier for the forest to grow. I think we need to think about land healing and forestry in context. This in itself is a very similar and related task. I was running a loose report on climate change, and not quite to the end of it. She's just out, and she'll probably be here for a discussion on Thursday. The report should primarily tell us what disaster is at hand. True, however, there is also an opportunity for the climate to grow warmer. In fact, it is stated that at each temperature of 1°C, growth is accelerated for one 16 days, i.e. We'll have the summers and the growth period by 16 days. What we have done in agriculture shows how much difference each year in the timing of ours; ours before and later in the fall, how much faster it is to close the wound. I also wondered, in view of what is in this bill, and I want to come into it here, that although the crown of creation, the sheep, is now usually the red thread of what is being discussed in this hall, it is also true when we consider the concept of sustainable land use and so on. I just stopped at 12. This is about sustainable agriculture and agriculture programmes. Then, about 25. ... governmentguilty. I'm not making any particular remarks that if they don't do it, they can only be chewed out. But there are other parties and other creatures that use the land. I wonder, though, in this context, if it's only that of 25. applies to 12. that I cannot see but that this guilt applies only to the items relating to agriculture, i.e. then land use and use, that is, to be expected of the sheep. But there are others who use the land. We find it extremely difficult to control the location of a bird. We know that there is tremendous weight in the bait of a goose and an aluminium. I don't think it's taken into account. This is also true of reindeer. In view of these fines, I realize that it is extremely difficult to fine geese, fawns, and reindeer. But we need to take it into account when we ponder over less sustainable land use. True, it can affect the same thing, but we have to look at this too. Then we also come to the tourist currents, both where people walk and drive, and now they're moving around on wheels, Buggy cars, and all kinds of vehicles. It affects country too. That's what we need to babysit. I'd like to direct it to the Minister to take it with us, because I can't see it in the bill itself, that it's addressed if we're going to try to control that use, because all of this is land use. It's not just bait, it's the kidneys there, it's certainly affecting the development of vegetation. Guards against treason. On one occasion, there was a treasure called a miscreant fund. Lately, there has been the threat that may be at the door regarding sodas in Köllu talking about dikes in the Snow Valley. I mention it as an example, since these materials contain the same well. It is a huge project and a great deal of money. There is also one aspect that we need to clean up, i.e. that it is better to finance it with great force than to distribute money all over the place, or, by the permission of a president, with cocky shit here and there. We know that the agricultural or agricultural funds were usually empty and have generally been moneyless. If we are going to do this out of some sense and power, we need to finance things properly. But I am glad that this discussion will take place and hope that this bill will go well in the council and at once. Environmental and Transport Committee. How important it is for all of us to walk in good shape and to take care of the land!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-23-23.u173	The Honorable President. I want to thank you. A senator for taking part in the discussion. I think we share largely when it comes to these matters. I think it's extremely important that we take advantage of all the opportunities we have to carry out more land healing. It's the basis for improving land quality. One of the things I've stressed about the Ministry's institutions, i.e. The agricultural and forestry that now divide the budget for the next year is that deforestation is a major factor in recovery of former land quality, increased forestry, and so forth. I'm just about to step into the budget. It is estimated to put about 4 billion over the next five years into carbon binding, but it involves more than just agriculture, i.e. Wetlands and forestry are also restored. So I can see in a much brighter time when it comes to capitalizing and expecting that we can apply it in the most reasonable way as well as with a wide range of goals. I only brought it up in a previous discussion of forestry and forestry that we need to think about the biodiversity and the thought of stopping deforestation and erosion. About 12. it, as well as the whole law, deals with other aspects of sustainable innovations, other than those that focus on agriculture or mainly on sheeping and sheeping. This has also been the case with other practical uses of the land, such as water. A senator mentioned earlier. There may be other laws involved. In the absence of agricultural schemes, the application and development of agricultural schemes depends on the right and the front of a mountain. In case of noise e.g. By cycle or walking, or by traffic, it depends on the protection laws of nature. For other uses there are no resources in other laws and it is considered that there are special means of forced management under these laws. I'd like to finally thank the senators for their receptions in terms of this bill and hope we can handle it by New Year's Eve. That would be very desirable and good. It would be time to update the law at about 50 years of age. Thank you so much for the discussion tonight.
