ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from June 12, 2018, or later, if necessary, to July 17, 2018. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u2	A respectable president. I came up here in December. in a similar field of concern, which would be discussed in the advising of the preparation of these laws, it made a comment. Now the situation is that nothing has changed in this regard. The task force is still within the three members of the General and Education Committee and for those who wish to get citizenship by law, we get no information to the general members of Congress. I'm not here to speak personally of these fine people, who I hope will be good and social citizens after the hospitality of the citizen's rights. I want to take advantage of this opportunity to encourage us to go through the work of changing the system so that the process becomes more open and more transparent. Many people feel that way and experience it, so if you get the news, you have a better chance, if you're good at sports, you have more chance, and so on. These are random reasons, and when people ask about the rules that the Subcommittee has no answers. It's not just that the senators don't know what the standards are, they don't know any difference between those who are making a decision, but I've also experienced this as random. That's not good. We need to adjust our circumstances so that we are not especially likely to slip in by chance. Perhaps we need to change the rule in a way that fewer people get to the threshold because of minor issues, no matter who they may be; a slight fraction of something I don't want to mention. To a large extent, these are the candidates who have stepped into the position to drive their car once too fast or something like that. I don't think it's a bad idea that it's all in the Senate Subcommittee, where no one will know. I hope we do the job to fix this. This should be intended for handling specific situations. A few years ago, there was a special law that put Bobby Fischer in charge of a citizen's right. Of course, it was not an example for anyone unless it was Spasskí for Spassaki to come. We need to get close to this so that the process becomes more transparent, and then we'll take this factory mechanism out of the hands of the Generals. This is what I wanted to share in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u3	A respectable president. I recommend here for the Committee to conduct a bill on the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information, from a greater portion of the General and Education Committee. I don't need to reenact the extent and extent to which shame this great matter came in the treatment of the council. The members of the United States are aware of this. Nor will I tire of going through all the committee opinion listed on 21 pages. Rather, I want to refer to the Senate document that has been distributed here. The first page appears a long list of all the sources to which the committee called and has discussed this matter in several lengthy meetings, in a few days, and performed it as conscientiously as possible. In general, for the bill that it is aimed at implementing the legislation on the regulations of the European Parliament and the 2016 Council as outlined in the EEA Convention, and on the other hand, in setting additional regulations for the filling and supplementation of the Regulation, which recommend the setting of national regulations. The agreed bill of this is essential for the involvement of Iceland in a joint European rule of personal protection and the processing of personal information. In the bill it set out a material goal, such as in the current law, to promote personal information in line with basic principles and rules of personal protection and privacy and to ensure the reliability and quality of such information and their free flow into the internal market of the European Economic Area. The bill has a unique view that it affects the whole community. The character protection program has the speciality that it allows Member States to set reasonable limits on certain aspects, to expand or disseminate some of its laws, and in some cases, to place certain factors specifically in national law. The reasons for the implementation of national regulations can be included in four categories: 1st Source for further implementation of the content of certain regulations. 2. Opinions to set guidelines in specific areas. 3. There is room for laws to be set aside from the regulations of this Regulation. 4. National obligations to set specific laws or rules. In general, for the introduction that the Regulation has not been adopted into the EEA Convention it is important to deny that there is not really an introduction to this legislation at this time. Therefore, the need to validate a specific introduction law after making it part of the EEA Convention is highlighted. Such a law could be added to the law while changing other laws. The commission considered a great deal about its consequences if the Regulation was not introduced to the current legislation committee. The work of character data across national borders from Iceland to the EU is carried out every day to a large extent, e.g. European and national companies are involved in the work of the European Union and in the work of the European Union. The Commission has found that if the CDC does not become a law at the current council, there are many problems and problems in transporting personal information that are essential to online services, computer systems and other activities. Then the competition between Icelandic companies might get weaker and unpredictable is how their customers in Europe would react. The joint review of the National Association of Business Life, Coalitions, Travellers Association, financial companies, marine organisations, industrial organisations, trades and services, and Iceland's Customs Association, is obliging the importance of the work life that the bill will be legalized as soon as possible. Taking on induction causes uncertainty that can weaken the competitiveness of Icelandic companies in international activities. Iceland will be classified as a Third World state, which could have considerable financial damage to the public, to the job, and to their people. Then Icelandic meta-analysis in its paraphernalia expressed concern that there may be a threat to continued unabated cooperation with foreign partners requiring that Icelandic genetic analysis work in accordance with the regulations of the Regulation. This is addressed in the opinion of the committee, listed on 21 pages. I urge senators to examine the matter. Several adjustments have been made. It may be appropriate to state regarding the cost taken at the end of the committee's opinion that to the committee a great deal criticism was made of the expense that the bill would bring to the job, institutions, and rural society, and would not be reached. There is evidence that Persian protection would have been assured of added funds for further expansion and new projects, but other institutions would not have received such an increase. This needs to be considered. The Committee presented strong criticism regarding the treatment of Congress, how late the existing bill was made. It was noted that this is a complex matter, resulting in increased duties and costs for the job. The committee cannot help but agree. The majority of the Committee suggests several adjustments to ensure clarity and indicators. However, in view of all of this, the greater part of the committee contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed to a special Senate document. A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion according to a warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir writes out in advance that she does not take responsibility for the errors that may be hidden, as it says, in this vast and important matter because of the short time she has had to handle it. Under the committee, the majority opinion, Páll Magnússon, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Þóra Árnadóttir, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Birggis Birgir of Ármannsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Willum Þórsson and Thordldur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdotir. So much suggests that this bill will be agreed with the changes made to a special Senate document.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u4	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize personal protection and processing of personal information. The matter came very late here into the council, and it's also very special that we members of the council are meant to have little time for us to get involved properly. Therefore, as well as members of the Central Party, I will not support the release of this matter. The other day, when it's the highest. The Minister of Justice spoke for the matter, saying that there would be little change in the council hall in which cases from the European Union were concerned. In a way, she was quite right. One thing is that the matter is late, the other is that most members of the council have agreed that it will go through most of its perplexity. So I must ask: Is that true of the council? A general and educational committee has held the case in place for 15 days, and this committee has brought in a number of visitors. As the discussion increases, more opinions arise. In fact, the violation of the Constitution of the Icelandic republic has been called into question, and that is all that has to be said. Requests were sent out on May 30, 13 days ago. In all, requests were sent to 298 parties and have received 50 envelopes from different stakeholders, such as rural society, state institutions, and stakeholders of most of the country's major sectors. So the reviews involve a number of things. In common, the reviews point out that there is a need for practical action and time to handle this important matter carefully and carefully. We're in the hands of a huge, massive case. That's why it's strange to think of a lot of time for clients. It's not like it's a simple matter. Time is important so that people can go as deep as they need to be in order to understand it. One factor is the shortness of time, along with criticism of the material issues. Here you can list points that need to be more familiar with, such as the guilt laws. In some other lands, they are absent, and in some places they are even lower than they are here. The Agency of industry, the European Commission on the Seaside, Union, Business Organization, the Organization for Economic Corporations, the Association for Travel Services, the Organization for Trade and Service has all criticized that it has not represented in the induction process, which in itself is somewhat special, in which it is being introduced directly into this large issue. The job of the P.R. is just one of many that companies have to enter into, and few are in charge, while some are beginning to advertise. That's all there is to say. I can go on, of course I'm taking it. There are still a lot of ideas and a lot of legal issues. But there's one last thing I'd like to say, i.e. to say that the International Assembly deserves thanks for its work, but it is entirely unrealistic to plan to complete the case in a way that is being proclaimed here. I choose to stop here but, as in my case, call attention to it, that the matter came late in, and we senators are in no way given enough time to discuss it, nor do they have real opportunities to promote their views. You can't go on with what we often say, "You'll be fine. I don't think this council is a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u5	Mr. President. We're overcoming a big issue, a very important matter that would have been desirable, and in fact, it's necessary to have much more time to discuss it. It must be expressed here to the highest degree. The Minister of Justice and the Ministry would have better turned the bill away earlier so that it would receive more careful coverage than possible. However, the matter is that we must introduce these new legislation. That's what we do. I think most sources agree that the case cannot be delayed. Because of this, the Commission worked hard with the loyal help of the members of the Parliament, the Committee, and the authors of the bill, who worked hard to help the committee to improve several aspects of the bill. I think it's been accomplished in an incredible short period of time to cut off bait and improve the bill from the original level. The bill includes, I'd like to say almost a revolution in this field. For a discussion of important rights, the bill takes to a large number of people in the community. The matter in itself is very much needed and good at all end, and it will adjust the fact that we are insure and accept a unified law that guarantees personal protection better than before and what is permitted and what is not controlled by personal information. It is also appropriate to specifically point out that the committee was very aware of the problem she faced. It is strongly stated in the committee's opinion that the committee has been tailored to a very narrow way of working this case so that it is a real pleasure. Again and again, criticism of the late nature of the matter should be repeated. There are a number of issues in this case that would surely have taken longer discussion, but I think that, despite all of this, I have managed to get the case uniformed that it is available for us to take care of it at the General Assembly. Of course, it offers a world of danger that when the case begins, it becomes a law, and we have to live. But I think it's true that we're all very alert, and especially the Ministry of Justice, which handles these matters, that we are very anxious to respond in case of a situation that causes a validity or misunderstanding. Again and again, I reiterate that it would have been better to have more time. We could have had longer if it had been better. But in all respects, I have signed the commission and the proposed changes and will, of course, support the law of the bill. But all this treatment is not in harmony with what I would have chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u6	A respectable president. I agree with the criticisms that have been made in the past. Congress members talking about the short time we were being held on the General and Education Committee, so we almost had to go night by day to win the case. I would like to thank my fellow members for their good and great work. I would also like to thank special staff of the Committee area that worked night by day to put the case in the suit we have here today. Finally, I want to thank the authors of the bill, who came to us over and over again and discussed many of the points of this bill and countless opinions and helped us reach a conclusion about the best costume that could be made. It's not quite the right thing to say after the highest cost. The minister of justice here that there was no room to win the case, that is not at all. We have room for that. We need to implement this directive, but it is the same in this Regulation as it is the amount of space from which individual nations can work. Letting go of the warning about the treatment, which has been so fast and that is naturally dedicated, especially by the time pressure we're under in this matter, and we can't talk back, it's time to stress that this is a real and a great progress, a legal remedy for the citizens. For matters that become more and more important in our time, more should be said in the context of data collection, on all kinds of subjects in the unpredictable future, and on how these data will be used. In that case, it is very important to have a good law. We've already begun to receive a glimpse of such activity with reports that Cambridge Analytica and Facebook leaks. Some cities are being granted their rights and strengthened in many ways. In this Regulation and in this law, the interests of the citizens, our individuals, the public, are in priority. It is very important to keep that in mind. It is sometimes this way in Icelandic debate that when it comes to the rights of the city, it is as if it is in itself a cause of concern and that it is burdensome, that is a cause of trouble, and that it begins to become impertinent. We are accustomed to thinking such things over the interests of our companies and institutions rather than thinking about the interests of our citizens. This bill has natural opinions and we went through with the authors and authors of the bill. This is discussed in a very thorough committee party that I allow to refer to here. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the court's application of the law's understanding of the law that personal protection will take place in the use of governmental fines and day - to - day fines and always be guided by a rule of moderate honor and take care not to weigh on those involved in the guilt. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u7	Mr. President. A general and educational committee has discussed a bill for the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information. The bill includes the introduction to the general personal protection principle, which involves one of the largest leaps forward in the increased legal protection of the citizens in the field of personal protection and privacy. I'd like to sign this article in advance, and I'd like to explain why the one in charge is made. Pirata's senators have in the last few months directly repeated to the highest level. Minister of Justice how important it is to ensure that a bill was submitted early enough to receive good and professional treatment during the council. We repeatedly warned against asking the matter too late. If this were done, the matter would be discussed in a time crisis. This may weigh the public's potential to make comments about the subject in the form of a review. If the bill were to arrive late and work on it at the General Assembly, it would not be as best chosen and would be at risk of making mistakes on the legal procedures that might have a negative impact on the various stakes. When the General Assembly was suspended in the early May due to the upcoming county election, it could have concluded that a minister would not favor the bill until the fall council and thus risk disrespecting the international commitments of Iceland, and it would have been a great mistake to make the case when the Council came back after the Council's election on May 28, 2018. But that is what happened, and we now live in it. Working on this case in hand racing with the limited access of the public is a condition created by the highest power. Justice minister and the administrative body, which have been very uncooperative in choosing a longer treatment period, e.g. by offering a longer notice or by presenting the matter earlier. I insisted that the hearing of the matter be extended to some extent, but no more than that the new narrative would be just over a week. It is evident that there was far too short a period of time when a number of envelopes were left behind. No doubt others would have liked to make comments, and no doubt others would have wanted to appear before the committee to report their concerns and comments and even commendation about this other fine bill. Then this bill is also another example of an inevitable failure to legalize. Rather, to ensure that the law would be faultless, or defective, let us say, since we rarely have a law without blemish during this council, we would have to have much more time for the process to be done. There is the need to accept laws that may contain defects. But this situation is the responsibility of the carrier of the bill, the highest. Minister of Justice. Therefore, I'm writing under the Commission opinion in advance, because I really don't want to interfere with respecting our international commitments and sharing in the collective European project to protect better the personal information of individuals in this age of information, where information about individuals goes on buying and selling without their having much to do with it. Of course, I do not want to interfere. But I reiterate the concern that Pirantar and I have had here and have been very loud about, especially whisk. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, because the case would not be presented or offered well, would result in a lack of proper and well - treated treatment at the council and in the possibility of hiding many errors that we would have to cope with for a while afterwards. To say that, I have been very happy with the work of the committee on the case. I'm very pleased with the work of members of a committee field. It has been working nights to tailor as most of the baits of the case that have been discovered during the short time it has been for treatment, which should be welcomed and should be thanked. I repeat at the end of the line of notice. A senator and president of the General and Education Committee, Páll Magnússon, read his talk earlier, i.e. that I sign it on their own notice that I will not take responsibility for the errors that may be involved in this vast and important convocation because of the short time I have had to deal with it. But since I believe this matter increases the right of individuals to privacy and personal protection, I accept its treatment, however.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u8	A respectable president. Many senators have talked about time. I'm gonna start with that, too. I'm going to talk about 1995, which was the one standing here at 16 years of age and going east to the village cemeteries at the Uxa Music Festival. It was a simpler time. This was a time when most people didn't have an Internet in their home and if they had it, they had to call Reykjavík through a device that had very high and returned a small information from an Internet that had very little to offer. But this is exactly the year that the European Union set up a personal protection directive, the ones on which our laws from 2000 base on and on which we are changing. The difference between 1995 and 2018 is so astronomical that I even start to believe it, although I still picture myself as a 16-year-old boy crawling on Uxa, I may be approaching a respectable age, given the amount of information they're getting, and the distribution of them. It's another world. Modern science fiction is the everyday reality of the year. What the new Regulation and the new law does is to deal with that new reality and, of course, our individual requirement to ensure the possession and authority of our personal information in that reality. That's why there's a tremendous step toward accepting the law. We all celebrate. It was a lot of work to get us this far, and there is a lot of work to do. This was made clear by the committee's discussion. I don't want to be too brief on any of the points that are being taken care of. First, I'd like to mention the institution we operate within, the General himself, because we're making the transition to a personal protection rule that does not cover the work of the General Assembly. So to be clear, our idea is not to overtake us over the general law but, rather, to enable us not at the time of the implementation of the activities of the General Assembly to address the personal protection rules as they have a legal law on administrative and information laws. This is not clear today because the Council has multiple roles, part of which is of no relevance to the code of laws, but where a management board is being conducted within the Agency, we should leave the general law in force. Therefore, we propose that the future president of the Generals and some close associates will work to implement the procedure so that all three legal groups will be replaced by the General Assembly in a comparable way. The same needs to be done with the courts where government laws and information laws have long been fraught with their work. The same is true of personal protection. What needs to be done in the fall is also being introduced into a vast bandorm, which handles various special laws that discuss how to process, share, and gather personality information. There may be dozens of legal classes that must come from councils as soon as possible after the assembly. I'll give you an example of a collection of documents, a national surgeon's law. The list is endless. Similarly, we need to consider the sentence of a new custom, such as. it was pointed out in the reviews of the UN and the Employment Association, which have been linked to a job relationship, e.g. The use of substance research in employees and the surveillance of their e - mail chambers. All of this is missing a much clearer frame. [[The president calls.]] Then, in the coming fall, we need to examine seriously the cost of this at the largest institutions of the state, which are the most sophisticated personality information, whether it had to be met in the budget. [[The president calls.]] Because the President has begun to strike the bell with such remarkable wonder, I would like to name the musician Björk, who in 1995 had exactly the most popular song in Iceland at this time of the year, ◯Army of me to the age, by permission of the president. It took a whole army of people to get this case through. I'm not gonna mention the people who worked at the Ministry or us senators. We can commend one another in back rooms. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to mention special staff members of the Generals. I don't think it's over-historic that we've captured the Generals' committees and that we've been better in the last few weeks. I'd like to mention a client who, as mentioned earlier, had a lot too short of time to turn in the headlines, but they did so many, they did well, and they came in night and night, weekends and at any time, for the committee to help us sail the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u9	The president asks why. Senators, please respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u10	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize personal protection and processing of personal information. This is to promote, as stated in a committee list, that personal information will be in line with basic principles and rules of personal protection and privacy and to ensure the reliability and quality of such information and their free flow into the internal market of the European Economic Area. Therefore, there are extensive changes in the bill in addition to the rights set out in current legislation, in which principles on the processing of personal information, the rights of the registered and the duties of the responsible people remain unchanged in the European Regulation, with various fundamental changes and improvements in existing rules. This is in harmony with the magnitude of the changes that have occurred and are taking place in this global field. At the same time, the pressure is increasing to conform to such a system of rules in this and many others, as are being done by the regulations under which we are legally establishing and we have experienced, such as in recent years, and to miss our participation in international work and our involvement in the EEA Convention. It has been observed in the matter of what. Parliaments and members of the General and Education Committee that time was bent on the matter, but at the same time, there is a number of factors that will prompt it to be completed during this council, especially from the professional situation that has been fully developed to prepare for the changed legal environment in this area. I'd like to wear a special opinion and read, with the permission of a president: In a joint review of a number of representatives of the Labour Association of Business Life, the importance of professional living is called into question that the bill becomes legalized as soon as possible. - So we've got a lot of pressure on the business, as we can see, that we'll settle it. - --induction delays the mood of uncertainty that can weaken the competitiveness of Icelandic enterprises in international activities. It also says: The EEFTA recently issued a declaration that the older personal protection directive 95/46/EC continued in the EEA Treaty until the general personal protection protocol had been adopted into the EEA Convention. The Commission stated that the European Union did not object to the declaration. Therefore, data transfers from countries should not be disturbed until the recording of the EES Convention. This is a very important, more dignified president, because the only uncertainty that can arise is if we introduce the type after the design has become part of the EEA Convention. It says: In view of the important interests involved and the uncertainty created by the implementation of the Regulation, the greater part is important to introduce it to the current legislation council. This fact is that my knowledge outweighs the important criticism that is natural to equal matters during conquistancy. Explaining these aspects of a special chapter and the need for this, the committee emphasizes the need to make good use of the time until autumn to review and review other laws that must be changed and to work on educational material. The objectives of this Regulation are two aspects of the right to increase the right to the personal protection and greater control of personal data, on the other hand, to facilitate the effectiveness of digital markets and to ensure a coordinated flow of information across cross-borders. As a result, it greatly increases the duties and responsibilities and costs of industry, institutions, and rural communities. It should be acknowledged, more dignified, that the feeling of the case was originally the groundwork, that it would take more time for contemporaneous treatment than it might be at the appointed time. I like it like the rest of us. The members of Parliament thank the more sophisticated, coordinated efforts of the work of members of the General and Education Committee, managers who came here in very unusual times, the bill authors who gave the Commission a particularly good time, awareness and practicality, and the World Committee. All of that is commendable. The conclusion is that I have some sort of confidence that we're doing the right thing by finishing the case. This is important and outweighs the possibility of living with the imperfections of the matter at the council at the speed to which it should be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u11	Mr. President. There are positive things in this bill. I want to agree with that with what. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson that there is a legal remedy for the civilian population. However, this bill is very extensive and burdensome. Its primary objective is to provide individuals with additional protection and increased rights to treat personal information. The treatment of personal information, contact with such information, and translation will be considered. All of this sounds good and in itself is a noble goal, but the impact of the bill will be widespread and will touch every aspect of society, as we have seen. That is why this bill calls for a careful discussion at the Assembly Hall. The work we've seen here, and most of the senators have come up with, how this has entered the council with great shame, is by no means exemplary, and especially in view of the magnitude and severity of the bill. I just want to step aside the cost of this bill because I believe that unfortunately, it has been overlooked, and that's very bad. If we only look at the information of the European Union's company on the bill, this bill, will be law-enacted, it will result in considerable expense for the communities. It is stated that the proposed legislation will require a new and improved personality protection procedure and will significantly affect all rural administrations and will result in large costs. Then the European Union of Iceland, in its review, says that a number of elements of the bill are very vague and clearly lacking the directives that rural society has on how to deal with, of course, that is very bad. The annual cost of rural society as a result is estimated to be 390 million. K. However, the prerequisite cost of a community project is estimated to be some 770 billion. K. There are substantial amounts of money and are not discussed in this issue how to meet your rural communities in this regard. The largest joint at the preparatory costs is the task management and, on the other hand, the mapping of your local partner and the processing of your files. This is estimated to be about 660 million. K. So we'll see, Mr. President, that there's a lot of money here. All of this is very interesting. If we take a closer look at the figures we're going to put into the communities, we're going to have to find that they're going to have a tournament. Some form of counter-improvement must be developed or changed the income populations of the rural community so that they are in a position to deal with this situation. The subject has been discussed in a broad way. I can't see that it happened to the locals. Many of them have no room for this massive cost. Today, some rural communities are not even in the position to maintain normal school activities because of a poor financial situation, let alone accept this commitment made by the European Union, which comes from the European Union. Time is short, Mr. President. I just want to say in the end that it is clear that this case needs a much better and more careful discussion. Here are important factors, especially the expense, induction and implementation of the law, the payment of fines, the clarity of the law, the instruction, etc., which requires much more consultation with stakeholders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're not supposed to go too close to the head of Iceland's power and sovereignty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u12	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for a synonym of independent professional local selection for a new national hospital. Hv. A welfare committee has settled the matter and discussed it at their meeting and has arranged for visitors to meet, as the committee shows. There have also been some reviews from the office of surgeons, Icelandic nurses, University of Iceland, Hilmar Þór Björnsson, Land Hospital, National Contact of Fire and Medical Services, National Institutes of Hospital, Newm Land Hospital, Reykjavíkurborg, Association for better hospitals and Engineers Association of Iceland. It is not likely to be the case, as the review shows, that most of the reporters in this case are struggling with the proposal. In fact, a few comments give rise to the possibility of already considering where the next generation should be hospital. The majority in themselves agree with that speculation, but they clearly state that they must not be allowed to delay the progress of the Round Way project. The majority point out that this project is already under way. Building projects are being built, and I know that design and soil work are already being carried out in such a way as to do the work well and at once. The members of the council know of them are the part to house the sickly hotel almost ready. It is also a joy to report that in a financial program adopted yesterday, the project is financed, which is very important. The reviews of professional groups sending in reviews suggest that both patients and staff in the hospital cannot be tolerated to improve. The committee presented a somewhat different understanding of the proposal, and it did not appear that visitors and clients were aware whether the approval of the proposal would include delay or discontinuation of existing projects with the Land Hospital, whether the proposal was intended to apply only for the next generation of hospitals, or whether a project at the hospital would continue on a stable basis despite working on local choice. Thus, the suggestion is unclear to the majority of the committee and cannot be declared the consequences of this proposal. It is important that the Council merely clarifies itself in a clear and direct way. The majority strongly oppose working on the Ring Course and suggest that the proposal be made. Ásmundur Friðriksson was absent from the case but signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the heading Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's publications, directed from advance Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. A respectable president. Like I walked in here before, this case can't wait. I believe it is irresponsible to talk about the matter taking only a few months, as indicated in the letter to the council arrangement. We know how long it has taken to get to where we are now, and I think there would be no more delay than to delay the case. It is happy that a body of Congress has yet another chance to tell what he thinks about the Ring-Clar project, and hopefully the decision of the Council is now sufficient to accept the will of more part.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u13	Mr. President. I hereby recommend my part of the committee's committee with a motion-changing proposal for the interpretation of an independent professional statistical analysis for a new national hospital. The aim of the proposal is to make an independent professional local analysis to see where it would be most practical and best to build a new national hospital. The committee received 11 reviews of interest stakeholders with various viewpoints. The visitors who met the Committee that supported a new local analysis pointed out that the facilities of the Land Hospital appeared to be in a much worse condition and suitable for much worse than expected when the basis for local selection was based on it and therefore it was important to use the old housing. Almost all of the hospital's living quarters are still needed. There has been concern that the current position is misapplied from traffic connections in the capital area and with the whole country. It is said that grounds are smiling. During the local selection analysis, it is best to reiterate that then the work of the Land Hospital, as well as the construction of the Ring Road, will continue undistracted. It is irresponsible to wonder at this point, therefore it is necessary to evaluate the situation. So now is the time to discuss whether a different location might be better than a Ring Road under present circumstances and what has changed in recent years. This work will be essential to the construction of the new national hospital, whether at the Ring Road or elsewhere. Since the first decision was made regarding the hospital's location, organization and planning have changed frequently. The only thing that has not changed is the selection of places, but it is natural to evaluate this factor as soon as the knowledge will be used to evaluate this same position. The case has not been agreed with in recent years at the General Assembly. In 2015 a synopsis proposal was made for the construction of a new Land Hospital on Ring Road, which was proposed to attack the necessary restoration of the hospital's home on Ring Road. Only this was the case. This was in harmony with the government's policy at that time, but in its constitution it was maintained that the best future solution should be considered; at the same time, the importance of attacking the current residence of a land hospital should be emphasized. It said: "It is unacceptable for a land hospital. The maintenance and improvements of the current Agency's facilities and tools must be emphasised until a permanent solution is obtained. In view of the delay in the case of the committee, the majority suggest that the report of local analysis will be delayed, but it should be ready no later than October 15, 2018. The minority will agree with the purpose of the proposal and the need to make a complete analysis of where it is most practical and best to build a new national hospital with regard to all major factors and standards that may be relevant. The minority points out that such analysis may result in an increased agreement on the case between the nation and the nation, suggesting that the proposal be agreed with the following adjustment: In place of the words "October " in the final part of the motion," October 15, 2018, issue. Under these words, Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, Halldóra Mogensen, president of the welfare committee, and Karl Gauti Hjaltason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u14	V.E.G. President. With a talk from you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór, son of Gunnarsson, here, came the dissatisfaction of the silence that has marked this matter for 16 years. No other location of a new university hospital or a national hospital has been discussed than that of the Ring Road Hall, even though a 2002 report says that it is better to have a hospital elsewhere, e.g. In Fos Soir. The following report, which followed two years later, stated that if he could not have the hospital anywhere else, he would be resurrected on Ring Road. That choice has lasted 16 years. The truth is, I don't understand what man's been doing for 16 years. Actually, it's been made up now. which costs 110 million a year just in pay, and of course they try to hold on to such future tracks, of course. Who wouldn't? But there's nothing professional about this, not a thing created. What has happened since 2002? A new organization for Reykjavík has been installed. The building has moved to the east, traffic jams have increased completely. It has been reported that there is one place in Iceland and one time where it is particularly terrible to have a heart attack in Iceland, that is in the upper corner of Kopavog's town at 7:45 in the morning, because everyone like you're going into an ambulance at the Ring Road. He seeth, for men are driven out of this place; they are driven out of the corner. And what's the latest theory? It is a two - hospital hypothesis. They should build this hospital, or this treatment core, that should solve everything but resolve nothing. It is to be built now, and it is to be completed in 2024 or 2025. What should be done? Yes, it is time to consider the nearest hospital because they know it's hopeless. Who's seen a video designed for the annual meeting of the Land Hospital the other day and see how it's supposed to pile up a building? Also using proben, those watching the video see that the Ring Road is unchanged. Two lanes in each direction. I want you to ride a bicycle. I don't know any patient coming on a bicycle. There's not been any talk of standby-ups at any one meeting. I've been doing some meetings on this subject and they're never spoken of. There's a lot of talk about staff, a little about patients. They don't say "reals." People who gather thousands every day to meet their loved ones who are being treated at the hospital at any given time are not spoken of. They're supposed to bring the city line or a bicycle with the box on the brambler's box. Old women, probably with their bouquets in their mouths, bicycles to visit the old man in the treatment department. Can humans imagine this calamity? Mr. President. It has been demonstrated at one meeting after another that local selection is absolutely possible within six to twelve months. It may delay this matter for about nine months, perhaps twelve months, to build a new hospital from scratch. Speaking of the value of another 10, 15 years, how fine it is that it is kind of offensive to common sense to say such things! To say that I am most excited about whether the steps of the advance party are the same at a vote, and what happened to Pétur here about the year in the Bible that he denied the Savior twice before the rooster crowed three times. If we can vote within an hour or so, then the advance team will likely leave two of its biggest elections before the bell sounds four times. A boat's here now. But I hope they're having a good time at the centre meeting on the west side of the story. They don't have to stand in some way with people who are trying to talk to them about politics and promises made, they're trivial. This case, Mr President, is far more serious than we think. Let's agree to have a real standard selection analysis, and let's stop hitting our heads with this rock that's been beating for 16 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u15	A respectable president. I feel like a dog now. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, who described earlier today as feeling at the 2016 Summit. I think the two progressives need to go into some compromise process and settle custody of these matters they are competing for. [[Up front.]] But I'm not gonna say anything to it. [[Up front.]] I'm here to make an announcement of a warning that I'm considering to be the greater part of the welfare committee in this matter. It is not a material requirement, for I fully agree that this proposal will be made. This is a premise for the treatment of a welfare committee that was very different. It would be kind of a mild way to describe that. Because of what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson here spoke of 16 years of silence in this case, which is exactly what might have been said was the treatment of the Commission on this matter. Three reporters were called to a meeting of the Committee. Who did not receive a message from the returning source? Name five of them: Reykjavíkurburg, who now has something to say about the city country. Reykjavíkurburg was not allowed to argue for his decree that the city's reports were false, coalitional, distorted. Iceland's engineers'union, considering the time they lack, which is given for this work. These are the people who may be managers, such as Jón Hjaltalín Magnússon, candidate of the Central Party, who now wrote before the election in May, wrote that they would take an entire year to work as per the changed motion of the Middle Party, the same Central Party, to take four months. The proposal is due in October. Here comes Sæmundsson's number, 9 to 12 months, 10 to 15 months, and you don't know where the weather is. [[Up front.]] It's just one of those bullshitt things to the other. [[Up front.]] Then let us continue to talk about the speakers who make a comment on their proposal and were not allowed to arrive to the welfare committee, thanks to the silence offered by the Middle Party. Let us mention three more of them. [[Up front.]] A surgeon who simply says that the health and safety of the people of the country are in danger of this nonsense. Or the U.S. Nurse's Fégag, the largest working class of the Land Hospital, calling for a new hospital as soon as you can't stand waiting for four months, 10 months, 12 months, or any middle class member for a while. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] The nurses' society wants this suggestion for the trash. [[Up front.]] Or the University of Iceland. Shall we talk about it? It cost Iceland's University 10 billion to build a hospital somewhere else. Why didn't the University of Iceland get to meet with the Committee? Because there was the silence on the Central Party's invitation to a case that's just a bunch of nerds between the two parties that can just go home and solve it there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u16	The Central Party is in charge? ...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u18	What about University of Akureyri?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u19	Ask for the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u21	A respectable president. I think it would be nice to have this last talk here, because it is very clear to the gala that identifies criticism of this proposal and the determined scheme of the system not to revise the policy of building a new hospital on the Ringway no matter what happens today. Many things have occurred during the day since the first decision to take action, likely some 40, 45 years ago, even 50 years ago. As a matter of fact, they began to build by their plans. A medical park, so - called a Tooth Park, is a building that began to be built in 1977 or 1978. He's still half finished. In today's plans to have this building as part of the building of the Ringtrack, a building that is built at best on 15 years'sake, at worst, on a half century basis. Nothing, and now I repeat it, a respectable president, nothing on initial terms, whether we look back 15 years or 50, is unchanged. All changes have been made, and it is quite amazing to hear the latest proposal from those who have resolved that the hospital will rise to Ring Lane and nowhere else. It is that people are already to start building the next hospital somewhere else. This has resulted in the final evidence for the Ring Road. However, we learned that if built on Ring Road, it would be the ultimate solution in the long term, a solution to a predictable future. That is why it would be necessary to build on the Ring Road, to make use of the old house, and to continue operating in the same place. But now people are talking about how this will not work and that it is time to consider a building elsewhere. If humans have already acknowledged this, why, on the other hand, do not you think about the future immediately by building a new, real, high - tech hospital that works from the foundation in a new place? Most people know the evidence for this, for it is obvious. They're striking. How ridiculous it is to make use of a building most likely the most famous of all houses in Iceland for its defects, whether in molds, moisture damage, ants, mice, or other problems that have been in the news of the Land Hospital during the past few years, to use it as the future home of the Land Hospital, when there is an opportunity to build a new national hospital in a place that is comfortable in transportation, to build where it can be done quickly, where it can be done in a practical way. As has been noted many times, much more expensive and time - consuming measures are being made in the middle city. It needs to be built in accordance with today's needs, to build a hospital that works as a unit, instead of building a new treatment core, and then to consider God's view of how many years in the light of experience, to link the new facilities and other new buildings to the old buildings that have been described as ruined, after making them payable expenses. However, this was assumed to cost 100,000 dollars. on four square feet to fix up the old buildings. It knows everyone who knows that this is a preposterous conclusion, and it will cost a lot of money to fix up the old houses. All the grounds, no matter what the premise we look at on Ring Road, have fallen by themselves. I see at the top. The president has given me only five minutes in this first talk to review this extensive matter, so I'm going to pray to the highest degree. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u22	A respectable president. It was determined to listen to an unmistakably strange speech. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson before, but there's gotta be some kind of entertainment here at the end. But that land hospital and the task of building a new national hospital. It has been so strange to watch the heavy drive of the case and to see how the discussion seems to paralyze the person next to it. I've made it a rule not to put my mouth shut, but I wonder how many hospital workers especially see why they should put themselves in touch with those who speak for a different location than on Ring Road. Of course, most of this is because people experience themselves in the situation that when they are presented in the hospital, they will be badly treated. Let us say that a personal standard analysis has taken place, which is now controversial, all the grounds from that time are more and less long changed, basically many of them. We are in the position that some people want to mean that local analysis has been done around 2001, then the most successful and best - known and that no local analysis has been carried out. But it's not just that no actual standard analysis has taken place, but it's also that we're looking at all the grounds for traffic flows, flights, prices, costs of building, both innovation and... it would be interesting if the day came, that the helicopter could land above the helicopters where the helicopter is drawn into the drawings of today's drawings day, because of that. A senator calls up here. [[Up front.]] But that is the basis for making for the old buildings. I doubt that many people, except those in the case literally, realize that the old buildings are not part of the current budget. The building company, New Landspiritits ohf, does not consider the old buildings to be a problem. Someone else has to put them mold buildings together for 100 yous. K. on square meters. They all know that it is impossible and never will and will never stand. It is said that in 223 C.E. much of this structure is intended to be prepared. If we take into account how the medical hotel that has been kind of a sad story has been handled, then there is a very small chance that these schedules will be accomplished, in order to be spoken out of place. Men beat themselves to the point of financing the project to the end. If they are going to establish these projects for the 75 billion for which it is intended in the government's five-year financial programme, which is thus to match the period of construction, that is, 2020, that is, live in a dream world only. When these errors appear in their plans, they will be solved only by government funds. It will be necessary to have overlooked the potential for building up in a new location, where the maximum speed of structure can be achieved in a reasonable way. Close buildings do not have to be taken into account, and once the new building is finally built, people do not have tens of thousands of square feet of semitonous buildings. Looking back at government agencies and businesses all over town, it is a thrill to escape houses because of mold problems. It's supposed to be a big house to be torn down by an energy company in the event that one proposal takes place here. But at the same time, it is time to pick up the most popular news reports about molds. Who are stored there? That's our sickest people. Of course, this does not go anywhere. But that is somehow the environment that has been under discussion. [[The president calls.]] Now, my time has expired, but I encourage the rest of the talks to give support to our Middle Class proposal, and we hope we will make this case a better place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u23	A respectable president. I reasoned only how little was left to the ground when the decision was finally made to build a new Lands Hospital on Ring Road. I do not get to review all the lists of the short periods assigned to these matters, but I would like to mention specifically that the main users of their time, on the use of the old houses, and on the importance of engaging in such projects on the Circle Way to support downtown Reykjavík, are not only fallen but have become impatient in view of the changes that have taken place in the meantime. First, as noted earlier, it is clear that to the extent that the old buildings are not ruined, there will be far more to settle than is expected and will be much less inaccessible and adverse than to build new ones in a new location. As regards the role of the Land Hospital trying to move new lives into downtown, plans that lived when shopping and apartments were empty in downtown town, it is likely enough to point out that no one in Iceland is in a real estate market as great as in the downtown city of Reykjavík, so that they have turned up in their neighborhood. As for all the talk that has been spent so long as the decision has been made to prepare this mistake that they must simply be completed, I suggest that although it is probably about 50 years since the first decision was made on the construction of new Landhouses by the Ringtrack, the plans have been constantly changed in all the basics; plans presented in 2005 as a competitive, competitive plan presented in 2010, the plans presented in 2012, the plans that have been made for the rest of the day, there is no correlation between their plans. They have been constantly changed, not just basically, but changed. I encourage people to study, for example. The drawings of the houses and comfortable houses, where nothing is as suggested by 2005, are as good as being laid with 2010. This will take constant changes, except at present. There the stubborn quests, the system thinking controls the quests, and the systems that make up the present government do not seem ready to reexamine things based on the facts. The media announced a press conference with the Association for a better hospital in a better place before elections to emphasize that one of the main points of the campaign is that a new hospital would be built in a new place. By the time the band gave up its campaign and betrayed it, it had not been made a government, and all the others were added to it. It was amazing to hear e.g. is the highest. The current secretary of transportation for Arion's bank shortly before the last election, and then all of it was betrayed immediately. It is not without reason that I mention Arion's bank because if the government hadn't messed up the case, it wouldn't have blown down the financial value of a new land hospital at a new place. But some have a back. Councilmen of the left movement seem to be particularly sensitive to the fact that the forwarding party and its campaign fraud are mentioned, as if they experienced some special need to protect the smallest member of the government business because they are identified as a campaign fraud, so I shall add to the betrayal of the Independence Party. However, independence officials there may have decided at their last national meeting to make a basic change in policy regarding the Land Hospital and decided that when looking for a location for the future construction of a new International Hospital, i.e. The hospital we're talking about in this discussion, a respectable president. In effect, the Independence Party Meeting decided that a proposal should be adopted exactly as the one we discuss here. But what do members of the council do? They act like they don't hear from their own party. I was going to mention their left greens and their playoffs, so I'm asking a respectable president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u24	A respectable president. It is a joy to have the opportunity to give a brief talk on the local Hospital. I'd like to use this opportunity here to thank the greater part of the council for 16 years for supporting the construction of the Ringtrack for a clear stand and a clear support in the construction of a new Hospital on Ring Lane. For 16 years it has been clear from a council hall and has been extremely important for the structure there that has never been interrupted. A respectable president. It's a special pleasure for me to review a violation of the Senate debate. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, then president of the Fundament Committee, in a speech on December 3, 2014, when she says, by permission of the president: It is with great pride that I speak to members of the Committee on budgets set here for the second time in the Supreme Court. Prime Ministers of the Trustees of Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, and his government. And later: The sum of new donations is estimated to be 7.3 billion. These include funding at the base of the Land Hospital and other hospitals, design of the treatment core of a new Hospital - very satisfying, there is the government giving a clue to what should come, and actually creating a vision for the future that the land hospital will be built where it is. Very nice. There the government is giving a clue about what should come, and it is actually creating a vision for the landspians to be built where it is. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] A respectable president. This indicates that a greater part of the Council has never been cut off for all these years by the construction of the Ring Road. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Nor will there be a recession now when a greater part of the Council will once again take a firm stand on the current decision regarding the location and construction of the Lands Hospital on the Circle Hall on this pleasant occasion at the end of this council in the spring of 2018 this week as we open an offer on soil projects and design of a new research core. A respectable president. It's good to have an opportunity to confirm the one more trip that the decision on the location of the Ring Road was correct. This is important for patients. This is important for their families. It is important for the staff of the Land Hospital, who for far too long have endured difficult housing. This is important for health care. It is important for all of us to have a proud share in supporting the greater part of the Generals once again to begin the largest development of republic time, which we will hopefully all be proud of. I can't wait to take the first pair of shovels to the treatment core this summer, the summer we're going to celebrate the 100-year-old states of Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u25	A respectable president. 16 years is a long time. During 16 years, things change, civilization continues, and the city has evolved, yet it's the systems, the systems of the system, and the housewives who beat their heads at the stone, continue their nonsense, and show that it's better to be done in another place. Keep moving. It's a misunderstanding that men have suggested a stop and shut down the Ring Road. Of course, certain things have to be done there, everybody knows. A respectable president. This case has been held on a committee for a very long time because it was taken hostage by the administrative body, especially by members of the left - green council, and did not continue on the committee. That's the truth. We've been on it before. Anyway, I'd like to mention that on October 25, 2016, I think I did, the advance party preached a press conference with representatives of a better hospital in a better place, or something like that, where the parish was fired and said that the hospital should be changed and built in a new place. Like so many others, they now have a change of heart. We will soon see our second departure of promises and their course of action in another place. The same is true of the Independence Party, where the leadership decided to skim at the decision of a platoon, they are destroyed. It's very exciting to experience this in such a short time. I think the only people who are parties to themselves in the greater part of the government are left green. All along, they have wanted to make some kind of stupid mistake. A respectable president. It's fine that we get to that vote. Then we will draw out what governments here really want, whether meaning is behind the big words they had about the hospital, the conclusions of the Independence Party, and the big words of the candidates.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u26	A respectable president. This case is likely more vivid than any other matter to the problem we are facing with this government, the government, the government that cannot get out of the tire tracks, can't make any new policy, can't make any assumptions on the basis that are clearly established. When all the defects are pointed out to the current plans for building a new national hospital on Ring Road and, at the same time, the use of houses in the news for many years for being ruined, the answer cannot be answered. A number of comments, such as the fact that these would delay performances by 10, 15, 20, 25 years, are presented by professionals who say they are not the case, can be built faster and more effectively when men begin in a new place. Today, there is an opportunity to evaluate matters on the basis of fact and moisture and to use their power of reason when they arrive at a decision in the vote. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u27	A respectable president. It is particularly enjoyable that yet another long - term trip affords the General an opportunity to take a firm stand on the current decision regarding the location and building of the Land Hospital on Ring Road. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank for the support that all health ministers have agreed on, all the more of the Generals have agreed on, and that was even so that on December 3, 2014, the chairman of the budget board said, paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Courtesy of President: ▪ [It] It is very enjoyable, there is the government to give a clue about what should come and actually create a vision for the land hospital to be built where it is. A respectable president. It's good to have one more chance to confirm this vote at the 100th anniversary of Iceland's 100th anniversary that the Landspians will be built up by the Ringway.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u28	V.E.G. President. I now love the anniversary of sovereignty too much to bring about this disaster. Nonsense won't be right if you do it over and over again. It's simply so. Although it is painful to see people refuse to reason and refuse to admit that they were wrong, which is a fairly common disease in the class we belong to, that day will soon come, so that they plunge into pouring 100 billion into the depths, that they will see that it was one of the biggest mistakes of Iceland. I really hope that when that mistake soon becomes clear, it will not be related to Iceland's 100th anniversary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u29	A respectable president. Once again, we get to hear the most likely worst evidence for the construction of a new Land hospital on Ring Road, the argument that it has been decided so long ago and so often to make the mistake that you have to complete the mistake. There's no reason, a respectable president, that doesn't work. If we consider the facts, we can do this more quickly and better in a new place, much better in a much more practical way. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation described in another vote earlier that the advance company wanted professional work and committees and looked at things and pondered them. Now we have a chance to win things professionally, get professionals to evaluate things before making a final decision. It so happens that it is in the matter of which the move team has made two elections one of its main votes, i.e. that a local analysis for a new national hospital should be conducted exactly according to the proposed proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u30	Mr. President. Key elements in this matter are that all persons I've talked about this to agree not to stop or slow or delay the structure of Ring Road. That's the key. However, this suggestion requires that a local analysis be made to consider whether someone else might be more practical and better for patients. The safety of patients and the quality of health care are first and must be first in all of us. I don't see the suggestion contrary to that goal. When I walked the ring right before the 2016 election to ask about a position in the matter, whether it was a better hospital in a better place or our hospital who wants to have it at the Ringtrack, the governor, or the president of the Land Hospital, everyone agreed not to stop or slow down the building of the Ring Road. At the same time, everyone agreed on the possibility of a local analysis because we need to consider other advantages carefully, this is a basis for the future. It took 16 years this time, so a long - term, or standard, analysis is not a bad one. The nation is also divided. The best thing to do is to get the information that this Parliament's resolution proposal produces and not move on to the Ringtrack unless it is a clear understanding of the reality of the main profession that it is better to build somewhere else. Until then, the Ring Lane will never be moved. A circuit needs to be built up. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u31	A respectable president. It is particularly enjoyable to see the national Parliament's mind for the service there provided, for the staff who work there, and for the needs of future patients. This is the happy day of the first hospital, and I congratulate the Senate on the vote. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u32	Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson believes that he was asking for something later. The secretary of transportation and rural management, as it is clearly important in the situation, is now aware of its votes. Secretary of the transportation and unit Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u33	A respectable president. I can explain my vote any time. I would have chosen in my own time that the hospital had been in its place and that it had been built in a different location to form when I sat down in the 2013 government. Then the head of the forward party, the current chairman of the Middle Party, and, indeed, the prime minister had the power to use the government in that direction. To arrive here five years later and in the spirit of Trumps to suggest a local selection when men did nothing while they could, for five years. [[The president calls.]] That's why I say no to a local suggestion. [[The president calls.]] But we need to prepare for a new hospital because hospitals that are being built today last 20 years. [[The president calls.]] It is not later a good time to prepare.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u34	A respectable president. I hope that while a respectable president is an entertainer in addition to directing the council, he understands why it was important to have things in the proper order here. That's bullshit. That's what I'm talking about. A secretary of transportation allowed himself to go along, to argue that in a government he was not working to make changes in this matter, both within the government and in public. In fact, when a council decree was introduced from the then less part of the building of a new Lands Hospital on Ring Road that we did not agree to that proposal. We, including the highest. Current transport minister, resist it. We did not agree with the proposal and demand that it be changed. Then what happened during 2016 and 2017 elections? What was the policy of the advance party then? The main thing in the policy of the forward movement in that election, long before 2013, was what? To build a new U.S. Hospital in a new location. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u35	We didn't get any more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u36	Mr. President. I'd like to come up here to describe my disappointment that we've had no more time than we've seen to review this important matter, the Person Protection Protocol, before it came to vote. I understood that we would get space to do that, and I was counting that we would have time outside the council meeting to discuss this important matter. I just wanted to come up here to describe my disappointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u37	Now the meaning was to begin a vote on the subject. A senator mentioned, it was discussed here, and that discussion ended.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u38	A respectable president. I thank the President for not making jokes right now. On the other hand, I have to say that that that matter that pays a vote is not well worked. It's been way too little time. This is a shorter baptism, it recognizes everyone, yet it's to be let through here. For what? Yes, because the Norwegians and Liechtensteins pressure us and the European Union. What kind of situation do we have that does not improve? The media will vote against this whole case, all proposals, all of it, because this case is not supposed to be over here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u39	Mr. President. As noted in the discussions at the council, the matter certainly came in late, and it has been discussed why. On the other hand, I think that's what we're doing. A global and educational committee has worked very hard to review the case and over the information that was actually a reason to look at, evaluate it, and after events, there's a new proposal. There is a lot of work that is behind the bill and the adjustments it makes. I'm saying I think it's extremely important that this case now ends this assembly, before the end of the council, not because of the interests of the administrations or the administrations or any government or any such thing, but because of the interests of companies and institutions in this country that have a very wide range of dealings with European institutions and companies in the field of personal information. [[The president calls.]] I think the trouble that would be caused by if we were to delay this case would be that we can't afford to do anything but finish it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u40	Mr. President. The facts prove that this case came very late for the council. It's very soon. It is expected that this will be done at almost the speed of light. These are practices that are in no way acceptable when such a big matter exists. Many questions remain unsettled in this matter, including serious questions. A group of people cannot take responsibility for this matter or for the tactics presented here. We're going to sit next to this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u41	Mr. President. I will favor this case with my vote, but I cannot be on the green button without also using the opportunity to express my great disappointment and dissatisfaction with the government's work ethic in this case and with the absurd short period of time given to members of Congress. I'm the highest. A government to avoid making this practice a habit. It's not good for anyone, not for the council, and especially for the people we work for, the Icelandic public. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the members of the General and Education Committee for doing this, although it is possible to form an opinion of the case with sufficient confidence for that, at least For me, to be on the green button, in view of the great interests that are prepared for many. Most important, I would like to thank the members of the Generals of the Committee and other staff for a total excessive and detailed work that they have done recently because of the way the situation has been prepared. But I want to continue to make a great deal of dissatisfaction with this matter. [[The president calls.]] There may always be exceptions, and there can always be some temporary distress because of some circumstances. [[The president calls.]] This is simply not the case. [[The president calls.]] It is not good to make room for such things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u42	Mr. President. I want to make this matter a matter, and the importance of getting it paid for this council because of its huge interest in the public, because of the huge legal benefits it has for the public in the country, the right to privacy, and the personal protection of the people. It's really important. However, I also have to agree with what happens. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, who says this is not to be a habit here, how it was handled. It came in when a week was left of the Congress's staff plan. A week. We were supposed to win this case in a week. They see who you are that it's ridiculous to intend to do that, because it was really not possible. It also took considerable effort to keep the deadline at a relatively acceptable time, which I cannot say was an acceptable time based on the size and magnitude of the case. Although I will vote for my case, I am not voted by the work being done by the government on the matter's contribution or by the limited means that the public has had in mind, which has a tremendous impact on him. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u43	A respectable president. Here we have another example of what kind of system management this is. There is a possibility that with this issue, as the government brings it up, we are giving up a power far beyond what is normal. Whenever this case is addressed, but I'm not talking about now that in 2018, when we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the country, the government will suggest that we be giving up a power that, without question, is beyond what the Constitution allows. This is supported by the fact that we have to do this simply because the European Union requires it. Nevertheless, they did not use the opportunities to adjust the situation, nor did they use the opportunities to change it, and to adapt it to Icelandic situations, now too late for the situation, and demand that we accept it because the European Union expects it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u44	Mr. President. We are about to vote for an enormously important matter for the Icelandic public that will greatly enhance the protection of the country. I want to take this opportunity to thank you. Congress members of the General and Education Committee, both in the greater part and in the lesser part, who have done a great job in the last days, worked hard, asked critical questions, listened to answers, and made it possible for us to handle it now. And as the summer passes, we'll have a new and a much better personal protection law in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u45	A respectable president. This is a huge price and a good thing. I want to emphasize it. I'm glad to have the chance to accept it. It has to do with the more important rights of the city, the public, which become more important in a world in which well - organized information is being collected and applied with increasing clarity and in ways that are completely inexplicable for what will be in the future. Certainly there, as in any case involving our relationship with Europe, is being tested on a constitution. But here, no more is needed in a constitution than in our financial contracts. It's a long time for us to revise the constitution, put on a new constitution. [[The president calls.]] And it is long time for us to restore our relationship with the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u46	Mr. President. In view of the last speaker's recommendation, what? paritaprevir The legends of Thorsson Thorson, of course, result from our dealings with the European Union, through the European Economic Area, that we need to be alert to what has been called the State's office. In this case, I think it is absolutely clear that we are well within the limits allowed by the current constitution. This certainly is a matter of opinion. They have been discussed and examined, in fact, over the past week, by decommissioning the synoptic arrangement for delinquency of administrative warnings. This is also a feature taken up in the committees of the earlier winter when the hearings were presented, and members of the Parliament gave them the impression that this was all right. The views have not been established, but I believe that there is the opinion of the more skilled experts, the General and Education Committee, who discussed this precise point, that we are in a good place and in other cases have gone further in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u47	A respectable president. I'm sure I'm happy to hear what's happening. It is up to members of Congress to represent personal protection. However, I would like to mention this because I have felt that there was a measure of persistence in the trial period, which I have certainly acknowledged to have been greater in view of the matter's discussion, that my story was made clear in this case, and in the case of the concierge of the Foreign Minister, which is related to the fact that the matter could not have been brought into contact with the council before. It was a perfect basis for making a decision or making the declaration of the joint EEA committee. It was not sent to the European Union until March, and the European Union has not yet officially settled the matter. So the case couldn't have come here much sooner. Because of what to say. Gunnlaugsson I was also made clear in my case that the search was not for any other way to enter the introduction. It was a challenge to travel a different route than the way this is going and to try to maintain the two - supporting system. At that was not agreed, including of our community in EFTA, Norway. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u48	A respectable president. I take my heart to the point of view - read: facts - that have been presented tonight incorruption is the lateness of the case. In view of the fact that about two years since the need for preparation for this induction, there is no good or valid excuse. But I hope you can learn from it. I hope this will not be an condemnation at the General Assembly in big and extensive matters like this that affects all aspects of society. How sad that the time left to discuss the matter now has been discussed how little time has been available to discuss it! [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Finally, I'd like to commend the General and Education Committee for the work she worked for. The one standing here was allowed to observe her, and it was really interesting and well worked and well done. Also, I would like to commend the staff of the Committee area for long - suffering and patience with members of the Parliament until night and night and at all times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u49	A respectable president. There is no doubt that one of the advantages of working with the European Economic Area is that all countries can agree on important legislation in such areas as this. It is something that everyone should see, especially after the discussion of the past few months that has been done on the basis of a new technology and data collection in a way that the public disagrees with. Therefore, it is very important that the council responds. However, what has been missing during the conference, in my opinion, is that it is serious to us Icelanders and the General that the situation may arise that companies in Iceland and the public will be in trouble because of the implementation of European legislation before it has been settled into the joint committee, that we are at risk of developing serious problems in dealing with other European countries in the European economy before it has even been settled in the joint committee. This should be of great concern to us. [[The president calls.]] That point continues to take place and prevents it from repeating itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u50	Mr. President. I want to reiterate my frustration with the way this case came about at the council, how late it was. I can't see why the Norwegian Council could discuss this matter in months before we could get it before the council. I don't quite understand that argument. It's a big, important thing for the public and the company. We're on a joint market on the basis of the EEA Convention. There we have rights and responsibilities that are mutual. We accept this matter. It is as difficult as it can be to expect at this time, which is to be neglected before the council. But we have to say yes, and that's what I'm happy to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u51	Mr. President. I'm sorry, like others, that this case has been badly handled by the Ministry. At the same time, I would like to commend myself. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for a well-worked job and, in fact, the whole commission with the head of state for saving the government and the council against the horns of this other important matter. This issue could be delivered much earlier, as other nations did, because it is enormously important and large, as has been observed in many of the countries, for both the public in the country, but no less for the business. Then there's a lot of work to be done. We've got a meeting next week at the Board of Directors, where all the presidents will be gathered. Then it is important that we dare discuss matters that some have great warnings and doubts about the particular nature of our conversation, i.e. Just the expeditation, part of the general deed, the contracts on how to participate in the worldwide work. We should be able to do so with the same dignity as the Norwegians. The Norwegians have already concluded that the EEA agreement as it is currently violates the Norwegian constitution, with more extensive sources in their constitution. [[The president calls.]] What about the Icelandic? So it is vital that we, the presidents of the political parties, face the facts. We need to record this chapter accurately in the constitution. [[The president calls.]] That assignment awaits us. For one thing, this is true. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u52	Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, I support this matter. However, I wanted to acknowledge my vote that I will sit by the release of this adjustment because I don't feel that I've achieved enough time to assess the effects of this change. I think it's quite a change from what was, i.e. that now dead persons fall under personal protection, but here is a rule that after five years of death, they no longer do so. I have not felt that it was sufficiently demonstrated that some assessment of the effects of this law was carried out or how to misuse such information if any were possible. So I'm going to allow myself to sit by, Mr. President, to waive this proposal. I feel that there is good reason to make special provisions for this information and that if we had a little more time to work this case, we could have found a little better landing. I did not comment, however, that this would be done this way from the Committee, and I will not be able to prevent it, but I wanted to come up here to insist on making the adjustment because I don't feel fully aware of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u53	Mr. President. Again, I come up to recognize that I am staying with a vote on this change proposal. Here, the change takes place that, instead of being on the bill, we have a contract on the Generals' project, i.e. that the legislature and other legal roles of the Generals come, with the permission of presidents: the General and the institutions and the research committees This is another example of something I would have wanted more time to work. I am aware that we would have to take our stand on whether or not any other work of the Parliament fell under law of information and government laws, and maybe we should examine everything together, but in view of the fact that we had had had two years to prepare for this principle, we could have done so considerably before and have taken a stand on it. I wondered, " Why should the Council's Management Board be divorced? ' I don't see the evidence for that. But once again I don't want to stop it, because the anxiety I had was overcome, so I sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-12-78.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to explain my vote to this adjustment proposal, and maybe in particular the President will give an account of the indications that are presented in a committee list. A general body is going through a huge transition phase regarding public claim to information about our work. We are just about to publish some of the information on cost pay, and this trend will continue. Because, aside from the Allied Environmental Protection Act at this point, an appeal is made that the president of the United States will sit down and understand the part of the operation to be under the protection laws, and then likely at the same time under administrative law and information laws, in order to be completely clear where the general public is entitled to information about our work. This is a temporary arrangement that I joyfully support.
