ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u2	A respectable president. After listening to an explanation, the highest. The Minister of Justice here at a council Hall, as well as in the media recently, and after reviewing the data received by the General on the work arrangements of a judge's orders at the National Court, I believe that there is a need for an answer to a few questions. First, it's time to go to the highest. On the contrary to the advice of a number of experts who both work within the Ministry as well as outside the Department, the minister of Justice decided not to make a suggestion. Now I don't expect the highest. The minister of justice was only moved by his awareness of his decision, asking whether a minister could reveal who, who, or how she was led to believe that she was on the right side of the law to his decision. Second, there is now the possibility that the proposals of a judicial minister will not arrive until May 29, which is two days before the supposed end of the council. Then I also ask: Why did a minister not use the time frame she had created in February 2017, to postpone the appointment of a judge of the land rights to July 1st, 2017, and not June 1, so that the council and everyone would give an adequate time to work the case? The final question: The facts indicate that the Minister of Justice has been instructed that if an adjustment should be made from the perspective of the Commission's Regulation and an increase in the severity of justice experience, the same assessment of all applicants should be made on the changed criteria and give candidates the opportunity to add information available and give them the right to protest. Why did the minister of justice not follow the recommendations she received, as can be seen in the evidence available before the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u3	A respectable president. I thank the candidate for the inquiry, which I expect to discuss in a further and more thorough matter with a administrative and surveillance committee, hopefully at an open meeting in which all can be aware of the procedure of this specific order as well as a general procedure in order of the order of judges and even the officials of the administration system. It is true, and there is nothing new about it, of course, to assist me with various counselors, including The personnel of the relevant committee spoke up, including the specialists in my own ministry and other departments because it was now necessary for the Ministry to handle the case at this time due to the inadequacy of the Ministry of Justice in connection with one of the candidates. In view of the fact that the first time I was working on new laws, I went to various experts for an evaluation of how to proceed with the procedure. There were no precedents. The law itself gave Ministers very short time, just two weeks to do their research. The Commission itself had had had had several months to do the work. Second, the law also requested the arrival of the Generals, and it is inevitable to look to the point when it comes to interpreting the minister to investigate the matter. This was the first time that General Assembly was to be tested, and it may be clear to everyone that the visit had to have a significant bearing on the entire process. I got the opinion of experts. As Minister, of course, I am responsible for making decisions, as a minister always does, he must, of course, according to his own understanding. I give as an example a comparable case in which the minister's decision not to do something wrong was made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u4	A respectable president. It is unfortunate to learn that a minister will not answer any of the questions asked. Then it may be expected that a minister would be able to answer the question that also appears in the evidence of the case that has been sent to the council but in the written reply of the chairman of the Commission for questions raised by the Supreme Court. A minister on why only 15 were chosen clearly shows that the Commission's assessment was that these 15 were the most qualified and must be won, and those down were simply less qualified. The letter also shows that a minister met twice, in March and in May, where a minister wanted to lay the lines on how the judicial committee should operate. This is shown in a letter written by the chairman of the Commission. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice: What should a minister do in the work of the Committee while she was still on the job? It should provide professional conclusions based on careful administrative procedures and not accept orders from a minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Can a minister answer this question: What should the minister have to do with the chairman of the committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u5	A respectable president. Just give me two minutes to answer a few questions that I will complete, i.e. those who were cast out at the beginning. My meeting with the chairman of the Committee was kept for obvious reasons. I had a meeting with the chairman of a commission to hand him applications received by the Ministry. I was then meeting with the chairman of the Committee, where I was introduced to the reviews. A week later, I was handed over the review, and I had no interference, not any involvement in the activities of the Committee, even though we had had a conversation, the Chairman and I, about how they were performed. I was very informing the Minister to hear that. I've been talking about every two weeks. He's under law. Once a minister has made a suggestion to the council, he has nothing to say about the duration of the council or the delay in the council's decision to resolve the matter. It was entirely out of the hands of the minister and entirely in the hands of the council. [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to stress it, and I've described in detail how I made a complete assessment of all applicants in view of the fact that 15 judges were being appointed, not one judge. [[The president calls.]] Then no other than a comprehensive assessment of all applicants with various viewpoints could be made, including which the council then had with these commands. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u6	Mr. President. Carbon equations and carbon footprints are on the lips of all at this time, and they are good. It is important for all to consider that matter and take action individually and as a community. But at times, it is discussed with a variety of knowledge and reason. Now it's as many as at least has seen the light in those matters, and is restored to wetlands. I'm not going to belittle it or question it, let alone add knowledge of these matters, how swampry affects the environment. What I would like to draw out is that knowledge about the recovery of wetlands in this country and its effect on the carbon species appears to be of limited value. The amount of carbon released as the years go by is not available, you think that this year is hardly a matter of whether land is produced or 60 years ago, e.g. The impact of different types of soil or air temperatures in the country has not been established. Then there is the fact that I'm not being human beings taking into account that as land progresses, growth is growing and so is likely to be bound to carbon. Also, other measures may be optional, with a strong natural forest culture coming in. I think it would be better to use money to increase it in some cases rather than spend it in a canal. Not to be forgotten, much of the land that has been completed is on the way back to its own wetlands. Hundreds of thousands of miles of canals are not maintained today, and in most cases, they will be automatically reassigned if not. So landowners are both conscious and conscious of changing land to a considerable degree again and quickly considering at least you don't see the urge to intervene at high cost. No matter which direction the matter is taken, there is a lack of knowledge everywhere. I'm asking the highest. A minister whether he is willing to use increased research on what these all mean in our circumstances, to investigate and estimate the impact of wetlands recovery, and to what measures may be possible at the same time or instead of their effects.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. The manager of the inquiry immediately invites him to the council. First of all, I'd like to say that the factors are just what we need. A member of the Parliament makes a major contribution to the construction of a environmental minister, but what has to do with the Department of Agriculture on these topics I have discussed with the Environment Minister. Of course, we will enter the work under the custody of a environmental minister who supervises these matters in his own hands. On the other hand, there is one factor that has to do with the budgeting of the budget in December that supports the country's sheep's flocks and focuses on projects related to the country's carbon balance. There we have been discussing the design of the Environment Minister, the way we can better work on these issues than has been done. That's my answer. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u8	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The reason I'm pointing this to him is because it is very important for agriculture to be involved in the carbon discussion and a great deal of interest in it that he, of course, does his duty as others did in carbon balance and solves these problems with others. I wanted to direct it to the Minister to keep track of it. This is a very important point and is increasing in our discussion. I think the Department of Agriculture needs to be good at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u9	A respectable president. Yes, as I say, I pronounce myself fully ready to do so. This is in full agreement with the government of Catherine, the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, to deal with the situation. I'm pointing out what. A member of the body of elders has the points of the Treaty in these areas, which include: The plan is to make the effort to improve the quality of the environment. One point to consider is to promote the review of domestic agreements, to take certain measures in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u10	Mr. President. The fact is, however, that a minister of justice has created a lack of confidence in the judicial system. The Minister of Justice who does such things - so that we look at the situation and the stage shots that can arise in this national court case, which, of course, is not finished and may in fact just begin, but it may be over in a moment by being told off by the Minister of Justice. It is only natural for a minister of justice to give way to distrust of the national judgment system. Looks like it won't happen soon, but we'll see. The next responsible person isn't in the room, but it's the highest. Chairman of the Independence Party, Bjarni son of Benediktsson. He can change the legal rights of the party. Something can happen. But this may not happen unless it is pressured enough to do so. Then there is the prime minister who can ask the president of Iceland to appoint a new legal minister. She can do that. This may take political cooperation unless there is good reason for this, and we have already made a thorough investigation, and it is clear that they cannot maintain legal ministers under these circumstances. But we're investigating the case at the Board of Directors and Control, and then we're coming to the General Assembly, a DG with the Commission. Just as the Minister of Justice should be a checkpoint with the board that she did not obey. And right there were views, but it took a minister of justice to do so under law that she did not. That's why we're here today. The General Assembly can inform members of the Justice Department and the general public on the regulations and decisions of the Minister in order to the National Court. While it is not done and it is not on tables, the public will not feel secure. Proper trust in the judiciary system is a key factor. So I ask the Minister of Justice if she is willing to declare it here and now that she supports the investigation of the decision and procedure of a judge's orders at the National Court and desires the support of his members who are on the board of administration and monitoring committee for this investigation to be rapid and effective, it's not attempted to delay, it's done fast, well, dealt with, so we can all understand how the minister was doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u11	A respectable president. It may be right to reprove those who have not observed, that the Supreme Court's office of the Minister's administration of this matter is the Supreme Court. Neither Minister nor others need to undergo a double course of treatment or a repeated investigation of any event. It is the project of the Generals to discuss specifically the appearance of an administration and monitoring committee or even the rest of the Generalis may be investigating a specific administrative ceremony that has already fallen into judgment. Of course, people may suspect that they will come to a different conclusion, but the Supreme Court did in his judgment. That may be so. However, I direct it to the council to consider this matter of justice. Now, the case is being discussed by the Board of Directors and Controls. Like any member of Congress, I have no clear understanding of the purpose of this treatment. I have said, however, that I am pleased that members of the Parliament and the Council themselves take up a collective subject is subject to an order by the state. I've mentioned it and taken the initiative on a full-scale educational committee. In fact, I'm waiting for an invitation to the Board of Directors and Control Committee but, of course, will want to appear before the committee if I'm not invited, because I hear the committee is calling guests. On the other hand, I read a comment in the morning newspaper just before. A senator, a leader here, asks his questions, which clearly shows the purpose of the discussion by the Committee at least on his part. It specifically shows that the purpose is, not to examine or to do anything, since the matter is fully enlightened, but to get the minister out of the way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u12	Yeah, that's interesting. The purpose of the administration committee is, of course, to investigate the case, and then to find out where we are getting information about the rightness to do so or at least that we have the authority to do so. It is not a double trial, as Minister of Justice says. It comes from those who came before the Board of Directors and Overseers, Agent of the Generals and Directorate of the Generals. They were quite clear on the judgment that fell against a justice minister in which she violated a law in a particular field, that it could be a much more extensive investigation, and other factors could be identified if a administrative and surveillance committee investigated the matter. Which is what it is. Information has been provided that suggests that a minister has the potential to have, or at least is more likely to do so, making this knowing sense. There were other members and members of the Ministry who informed the Minister that they would violate the law if they continued their conduct. It's obviously no more time than this to finish this, but for what a minister has said she didn't have time: We mentioned it repeatedly to the minister that we could put it back in order for her to consider the matter better, and then she would have had a month. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At least two more weeks. Still, she supported the drive through the council, and the council had to... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u13	A respectable president. This is illustrated by a quote from which we read. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, who may refer to the discussion on his part of the council and to some of his fellow party members, in this matter. [[Up front.]] It says, by permission of the President: We can't get it out of the way right now. But we can keep the matter alive with a study that is most likely in position to get her to shoulder responsibility. [[Axla responsibility. That's what I'm talking about.]] The point is very clear. [[The president calls.]] I've reported that this case came into the council during the last term what my stand was to interpret these rules. I can't see how it goes. The board of directors and monitoring committees are going to dig further on my mental attitude regarding the case at this time. I don't know what kind of equipment she's got to do with it. [[Up front.]] I've described my position in it. However, I wondered, " Why did a band pay for it? ' A senator, a captain here, not a vote by the Committee's proposal? They did not even sit by, as they always do, but they voted against the Commission's proposals for the eleven people who both agreed that the Council should be submitted by the Council, but by then. A senator chose to vote against it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] What does he have against the individuals proposed by the committee? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] What's he got against... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u14	The speech time is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u15	- the one suggested by the board? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u16	A respectable president. It may be appropriate on this day when just 45 years have passed since the start of the volcanic eruption in Homey, directing a inquiry to the highest level. The Secretary of Transport on the Navy and transport issues to the Western Islands. There's an army wolf going to a slipp, I understand. I'm asking about the ship that's supposed to be loosed by General during that time, which could take two, three weeks. What's a passenger's equipment on board? This is Bodø's passenger ferry from Norway. I understand there are no beds for passengers, which I find completely unacceptable for residents of the Western Islands, while flights to the Western Islands and back to Reykjavík cost $36,000. Has the government or transport minister not considered subsidizing flights at any rate, while these unsupervised vehicles are available, while there's a Gelf in stock? Haven't you thought of paying off a flight to the Western Islands? I know people who are seasick don't go that way without being able to settle down. If the ship is clean, which I understand it is, it is completely unacceptable for most of the Westman Islands to travel between but a large price for flying. Another thing, is it true that the ferry cannot be connected to a parade bridge in the Villagers and the Western Islands? Does this mean that the passengers have to walk through the parking lot to the pier right now, in the worst winter weather?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A leader who agrees that it is appropriate to discuss the Western Islands on this great day because of what happened there 45 years ago, a natural event in Iceland's history. In terms of the precise equipment of this ship, Bodø, I simply do not know. I'll look for information from the road model and the agency or the party who carries the ferry cruises how this ship is. But I know that it was very difficult to get ships to sail here. We were looking for the time when Baldur on the Brefjordur went to a slipp to try to get a ship, including This ship, Bodø, and trying to get only what it turned out was not possible but because it was simply hard to get a ship to go off at this time. So I just can't tell Congress now exactly what equipment is in this ship, whether there are no beds, let alone whether the ferry can't connect with the landing bridges on both sides of the country. I hope, now, that those members who have handled these matters are not offering some terrible option, but I will, of course, get them information to both the senator and the members of the United States on the structure of this deportation ship.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A secretary of transportation for these answers, which were really small because he did not seem to have studied this ship. But according to information I have, there are no bunks on the Norwegian ferry. You must have a little respect for the people of this country on transportation. We are talking about three weeks of captivity to residents of the Western Islands. It's just that way. I know for myself that if there are no beds on the ships, people who are seasick don't take their families, their children or their women. It's not a three - hour cruise. I hope and wish that the highest. A secretary of transportation will know and think of in the future of making a proper trip to the Western Islands, when the Navy needs to go to a raffle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u19	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator that when calling for replacement ships, he should be of the design and quality that they are offered on the ships they are supposed to take care of. It's pathetic when it doesn't work out. It was to make a very difficult impression about Baldur when he went to a slipp. In fact, there was an unexpected failure in Björg, so he was unusable for some time - it's also happened about the Navy - but there was no boat to sail. Baldur has sometimes been decommissioned to sea from the Western Islands in the land. Of course, it's not a ship of the same quality and type as General, for everyone looks to a new ferry that comes in the next summer and is supposed to solve these matters for a long time, but we've known each other in a few different ways. I agree with what. Of course, if it turns out that the equipment of this ship is not acceptable, the offer of such an option to the public in the country is very negative. But as soon as possible, I'll check the arrangement and get them information to a senator and a council member.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u20	A respectable president. I'm going to direct a request to the highest level. Healthcare Minister for intensive monitoring of prescriptions of the so-called adjuvanted medicinal product and its measures. These include narcotic analgesics and narcotics. In the August, issue of Awake! The European Medicines Agency presented proposals for intensive measures to interfere with such drugs. These actions included: in the presence of increased restrictions on their prescriptions. The objective of this recommendation, which is still in operation at the Marketing Authorisation, was to reduce the total amount of drugs in circulation and prevent misuse, which is a noble target in itself. But I'd like to ask the highest. Whether the overall impact of such restrictions is on health care and particularly on those who are vulnerable or prone to addiction. This is because in 2016 a database of medicinal products was opened based on similar views that led to the rise of morphine prices on the black market. Despite this increase, there is no evidence that the use of the administered medicinal product has been reduced but with the possibility of increasing problem as reported by the Committee on the Medicinal Products. On the other hand, if you believe that less drug access causes less substance problems automatically, it seems albino to limit bioavailability without holistic policies, while experience shows the opposite, the highest. Minister, that limitations without such overall vision can lead to higher prices, more toughness on the black market, fueling crime, fueling the import of even more dangerous materials, as well as reducing the safety of those already in poor perimeter groups. Besides asking the highest question. A minister on whether such policy measures are in place while the decision is being made to monitor the copyable products I would like to ask if there have been a consultation area or if there is a policy and with those with experience and expertise in the area of damage and experience in working with the committees of perimeter groups. That's where I mention, for example. Members of the project, Mrs. Ragnhen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u21	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's question, in fact, believes that even here is material in a special discussion, for this is a huge and complex matter. As shown by the starter, there has been a significant increase in weight in prescribing prescriptions. It has been consulted with a number of doctors who have received letters bearing their comments on the prescription. Recently, the surgeon general published instructions on the good practice of doctors when prescribing, etc. The Pharmacotherapeutic team has taken special measures for the checks. It has also been consulted by physicians in emergency departments for prescribing to patients who look over there and are mainly looking at painkillers and doses to improve quality but also to see if patients are prescribed too much and abnormal doses. Prescriptions from strong pain killers have been especially considered in some doctors who prescribe the most. However, analgesic use in certain geographical areas is higher than in others; this has been observed in public health. A meeting has been held between the pharmacological office of the surgeon and the National Competent Authority for this reason. First thing. A senator asked at the end of a special meeting area regarding those most familiar with it and the problem reduction warrants that my predecessor be placed in office for specific suggestions on harmonisations. This includes offering consumption space. I have made that suggestion, and actually I have already begun a conversation with the city authorities on that matter. I hope that I can go a little deeper into the answers in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is to say that this is a subject of a more comprehensive and deeper discussion. I hope it's just the beginning. The reason I'm getting close to this is because the procedures cited are very important as well as the work that is behind and the goal is noble. It seems quickly to be the way to prevent the growth, or, if I may use that word, kidneys, among the consumers of these drugs. But it must not be at the expense of those who are in a bad situation or who are dependent on these drugs, for their reality must not become harder, hard enough, on the fact that we are trying to stop them. I'm going to allow myself to use these last seconds to commend the highest. A minister for the decision to open up this consumption space and to ask if it will be the start of opening up a variety of resources for these groups. But I'm looking forward to the discussion, and I'm going to hold the highest. Minister to the subject in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u23	A respectable president. If we draw together the drug policy of Iceland in a few words or drug conferences that are normally guided in Western countries, it consists of two factors. One means to ensure bioavailability of essential medicinal products and to prevent drug overload. Clearly, there is a complex balance between these two views. The safe availability of medicinal products should not mean their consumption is too high. Similarly, when we correct overdose, we should not prevent those needing the medication from getting access to them fully. I'll take the tip of it. Senator. I hope that our exchange of words, though too short, will lead to anguish. A senator would like to have a special discussion on this subject. I will grant that wish with joy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u24	A respectable president. I come up here to describe my shock of the above words. Minister of Justice dropped earlier when a minister began to undermine the premeditated role of members of the Parliament and the Board of Directors and Control Committees. V.E.G. The minister of justice quotes from an article in the temple, where it is quoted. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson, who well describes his well - known position that, of course, the minister of justice should be replaced. That's hardly news for the highest. Minister of Justice. I said the same thing yesterday, to the highest. A minister should step down. Pirats and others are constantly being called for mistrust. The reason why a management board and monitoring committee continues to work on the case, and we don't object to it is that it's fair, it's perturbable. It is difficult to see that the entire body of Congress has all the resources needed to make an informed decision as to whether this council trusts this Minister. Digging it for some political purpose to get rid of one's own responsibility is a complete scandal. [[The president calls.]] It's completely unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] I insist. A minister apologizes for those ridiculous words [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u25	Mr. President. I apologize for not being better at meeting areas than for praying for the program. For my credit, I have about 34 years as far as I'm concerned. A president to learn this. I know that Mr. President is not a facts officer here, but because he joined me twice a couple of months ago for claiming that a minister would lie to him, I would like to show him that the Minister of Justice took a stand on Porta's Party to have voted for four judges and eleven when the fact is that this was actually made up in one motion, if I recall correctly. It's fine to draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u26	A respectable president. In the council, the president is spoken of as being able to far from being a senator if he speaks irreverently of the president of the Parliament or of the council or of any member of Congress or of the council or of some congregation member. I had to look for this because I was accused of the former president of the council. It is rare for members of Congress to be large. The Minister of Justice came here earlier and accused Porta's members of Congress of votes against the Commission's proposals. So I'll witness in word. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, who spoke of the vote last year, by permission of a president: I'd also like to say on behalf of Pirata that we will be on the red button when the whole case will be taken care of if it cannot be dismissed. It is not about those individuals who are about to take their seat in this new level of judgment but about the process. So I give up completely from the words and accusations of the Minister of Justice. I'm asking a president if there's an obvious reason for not using the law of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u27	Mr. President. First, there is the ability to explain the reason. Einarsson It was announced that if the last of us wanted a vote for a particular national court judge, it was permitted. If a person wanted a vote on individual individuals, it was available to all. That has even been true. These cases have been tried for judicial action. For what was the cause. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson came up here and began discussing the President's conference management, so after reading the text that appeared on the mol.is to ask me if the current trial treatment in the Board and Control Committee is a political drama, not a way to reveal anything or study anything, but to be political raw by the half of Pirata, which is the point, whether the statement under which is quoted is wrong, and whether it's right that it's done, for example, ... ofwhat. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, believed that the matter was perfectly declared, but for political reasons it should be kept alive. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u28	President. Now I thought there might be a little more from what. Ármannsson He believed that wanting to see a better process and doing things better should in some way depend on the person being selected. We just know that that's not the way it works. We were talking about the whole process. But then you're talking about the wrong move, I'd like to correct one thing that's been allowed to surface a bit often, mostly from members of the Independence Party. It's the wrong thing that Pirata's members never take sides. That's bullshit. We take sides in only 12.1% fewer cases than the Independence Party. However, the point is to note that we meet 12.7% better than the Independence Party. So if the understanding is to be that we never take sides, then the understanding must also be that independence is never there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u29	A respectable president. It's good to have the facts right here about the discussion that's going on. Yes, that was a vote for the order of all the judges at once. The law had reminded them to vote on individual judges before a meeting was held. To place the responsibility of calling for such a vote upon individual senators is simply irresponsible. They've already made a vote about each and every one of them. I just want to be clear in the discussion. And that perhaps the president will answer my previous inquiry about whether or not the cause of a reminder is relevant.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u30	A respectable president. I see at the top. The minister of justice has been able to shift her attention to things that are not her responsibility, and this was the goal of the conversions she took earlier. I did not sit at a council when the vote went out, and I don't intend to answer for it, I let others do it. On the other hand, I have to respond to a word. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, who will speak again about a meeting government. He asks if there is a political raw game in which a administrative committee and surveillance committee, a committee designed to monitor the European Commission, will carry out his research duty so that any body of Congress can make informed decision whether this council trusted this minister - to demand political responsibility. I'm gonna read a word or two. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, the highest. Minister quoted. It says, by permission of the president: We can't get it out of the way right now. But we can keep the matter alive with a study that is most likely in position to get her to shoulder responsibility. It's about an investigation to give the Minister responsibility. [[The president calls.]] If it's a political raw skin game in the mind of why. paritaprevir I wondered, " How in the world does Ármannsson, the son of Aargis, want to have it? ' Political responsibility is not a political raw game.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u31	Mr. President. The response of the minister of justice and the chief guard dog of the party - no, pardon, I'm not going to tell a watchdog but to a watchman, a very powerful watchman, a very professional watchman, why. Ármannsson, son of a year, who I commend for being a good watchman to the council, immediately informs you that they are afraid. But what are they afraid of? They're afraid we'd want this information to come out, all the decisions, and the way a minister operates, to see it. That's all. Why must the people not see the decisions and procedures of the minister at the order of judges, since they have been sentenced to break the law? When additional information is presented after the Supreme Court, it becomes evident that a minister was warned at the Ministry and, however, went contrary to all of this, drove the case. We want this informed. I believe a minister needs immediate responsibility because she was sentenced to the Supreme Court. But not everyone agrees. More information is needed, so more members of the council need to take their stand on the matter. That's what we call to call on; information, transparency and that a minister assumes responsibility on the basis of it. [[The president calls.]] If there is any indication that a minister was deceived in the Ministry, and that could happen, we must take a stand on that. But get the information so that the public can see and then appreciate it, enlightened.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u32	A respectable president. I wondered earlier today, under the highest voice. Minister of Justice if I should go up to the President's conference board. I'm coming up here because I thought the Minister was unnecessaryly talking down to the management and surveillance committee's projects. I don't want to have an opinion as to whether or not they're turning out of the Piranha or something, but I'm worried that the spirit and the tone of speech the Minister had in his reply earlier today is in order to undermine the important tasks that the board and board has. Here are two ministers sitting in a class called Ministers class, which I'm going to call a criminal class, for both of them have been convicted of the Supreme Court, and both of them have chosen to do nothing about it. One might wonder: " If a minister is judged by the courts, when will he have to accept responsibility? They have never shouldered responsibility. Does it matter? Is it a matter of decision? However, it is all right to evict politicians who are innocent. How many times have you heard the nonsense coming out of the councils of the left green when there are others besides them, ministers who are even convicted? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u33	V.E.G. President. I think it would be good for us to figure out for what purpose a committee job in the council is serving, and then, in particular, a administrative and monitoring committee when they have some research role, expected to produce information, produce views and the likes. They may be entitled and entitled when there is doubts about how they act in the administration. In this case, however, it is now necessary to determine whether a minister's office was justified or not. Opinions, information, and evidence in these topics have been developed. I'm not yet aware of the information and data of a board of administration and monitoring committee is going to call or what facts she's going to bring up that is not already in the Supreme Court case. However, the comment in the morning paper provides reason to conclude that there is no further information in this matter but that it is merely to create political noise and charisma. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Take it up in:...all data on board...]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u34	The President's asking for a row in the hall. Here's an important president praying for silence in the hall. [[Look at these data...]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] The president begs to remain calm in the hall. There's a very important discussion about the President's conference board, so it's not to be disturbed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u35	A respectable president. I come up for a second. A senator on political raw skin. It is quite clear to the administration and monitoring committee to monitor the activities of the European Commission and the Parliament and I refuse to be placed in the ridiculous position that I am up here to play a political game. After the conviction of the Supreme Court fell, one saw in the evidence a number of things that were not revealed in the court of the Supreme Court, e.g. the number of advice to the highest degree. A minister of justice that she perfectly ignored. We also see that there is no counsel for her to do what she did. This is for making a whole new story, that there's no advice. That's why I came up today, to ask who it was that advised her to go to break the law, because I didn't believe it at all. The Minister of Justice would have done it out of his heart alone. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u36	A respectable president. I find it boring to destroy the mood here, but I'd like to ask the president in the mail that the council members received last night, saying, by permission of the president: ▪ After unsubstantiated inquiries, financial and economic ministers will recommend financial policy of 20181⁄2022. Following that discussion in the field of council classes in December When asked, it's a proposal for President... They are discussing the part of the talk and the presentation of the discussion on this topic. Now, the issue was not discussed, and in December it was not resolved how to conduct the discussion on this subject. On the other hand, I would like to thank the president for adding a short five - minute talk. But it is according to tradition at least that the chairmans and presidents of the council are meeting on the program and on what sort of arrangement it is. I would have thought it was a normal meeting. So, in view of all the declarations of a new strategy, how to raise the Allied Council on a higher level, etc., all this nonsense that's heard from the government, I'm going to ask if it's not time to act and assume it's been a mistake on the part of a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u37	The President will respond to this when the discussion of the President's conference board is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u38	Mr. President. In terms of a administrative and monitoring committee, I simply don't understand what this is all about but that we should expect the Commission and the Commission to follow up on their duties and to receive all authority to do so, support of the Senate. I want to remind you, to the highest. Last night the prime minister spoke of the matter as going to the administrative and monitoring committee. I don't think it's complicated. The committee continues his work, and we should trust her to do so. We have selected members of Congress on that committee, and they are to have all the space they need in order to follow the following issue in connection with the order of the court of the court. That is exactly what I want to go over to another matter, that is, financial policy. No matter where the minister of the government talks, two issues are considered most important during the spring council, in terms of collective agreements, and in financial policy. It must have been so much so that if the government's opposition wishes, including the government's. of a double talk period, both in the past and in the second issue of financial policy. This is a huge case, with regard to a future policy in our financial affairs. It is only natural that the president of the council takes these wishes into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u39	There's been no more asking for the word for President's conference board, for at least a few more, and a number of the people who had done their rights and spoke twice. So the president intends to test whether this discussion is over. I'd like to state on the basis of a recommendation here that the president does not argue with the senators about whether in some case he will ask them to take care of his words, let alone if he goes further and does not kill members of Congress. There are final words on the part of an unreceptive president who does not need logical support. Second, with regard to the discussion that is being discussed on the agenda 2, financial policy, the agreement for Christmas was to agree on the wishes of the government stand and not to take the case and postpone it in the month of January. This made it clear, too, that there would be one of the first matters at the council after it would come together again in January. At a meeting of the chairmans of the council last Thursday, the program was shown during which financialism was the first subject on the scheduled Tuesday program, and it was not a very specific objection. The president does not remind us that there has been a discussion or a request for a double session of financial policy discussions. The second was that when a government budget was scheduled, it would be necessary to negotiate especially a busy talk period in that big language. On the other hand, the president wanted to set aside a period of first - round talk by members of Congress, thinking that it would be a modest increase in the length of the Ministry from 15 to 20 minutes and the members of Congress from 10 to 15 in the first pass. The President has now decided, with reference to 67th par. Congress, that this will be the speech period, made up of about five minutes in the first pass to members of Congress, and on the other hand, a regular discussion and full of counterargument.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u40	V.E.G. Mr. President, I recommend a judicial hearing on financial policy resolution for the year 2018/22022. Economic policy for the next five years is designed for the survival and debt development of the public community as a whole, i.e. Part A, part of a country, and a community, and institutions, boils, and their companies. First, the aim of the policy is to promote sustainable and stability in public finances. Second, financial policy is designed to contribute to the national balance as well as the UN funds policy. The development of financial policy also leads to firmness and forethought of public finance, which provides a more solid basis for all planning and decision making, including the need for change in money policy at any given time. The annual budget is based on financial policy and should be submitted no later than April 1. It contains political emphasis and the plans of governments, which are more developed in a much better way, including some of them. there are plans for income and tax initiatives as well as the construction of services and infrastructure and other changes in public activities. Markvist has been working to ensure cooperation between state and rural society in preparing public financial policies. Such public financial arenas have been designed to improve consultation and to ensure teamwork in a comprehensive analysis and mechanism of action. The aims for the survival and debt of rural partners in financial policy are set up to agree with rural society and take into account their budgets. The main policy point of the financial policy is that there will be considerable rest on the survival of the official organisation in general over the period, i.e. About 3% of GDP over the years. This results in 1.4% of gross domestic product at first and gradually decrease to 1%. Along with these fine results, which are designed to slow down rather than promote demand growth in the economy, will be able to support infrastructure and contribute to the benefit of the present economy. Official financial laws set out a set of standards for survival and debt. The scales are designed to set outer limits for government economic policy abnormalities, in the sense that it is characterized by balance and a limited risk of long - term debt. These standards are rather clear and predictable, so they should be able to fit the government's decision - making process on the development of public funds. Granted, there will always be some uncertainty and opinions related to changing values for national and economic forecasts, but these measured rules can be said to provide minimal financial requirements for the development of public finances. The fiscal policy is based on Iceland's Organization for Economics from November 2017, which covers the year 2017,2023. It is important to note that financial policy is based on practical economic predictions for the entire period of predicting. Although economic growth in the next year will be less than 2016, economic growth is expected to be 4.9% in the past year and the cumulative economic growth in the duration of the policy is expected to be more than 14%. Regarding public activity, economic forecasts are based on the financial strategy adopted at the General Assembly for less than a year. In recent years, increasing export has been a major source of economic growth. The exported services, especially tourism, have grown vigorously and have been replaced by trade and services trades despite increasing freight transport in addition to the growth of financial resources and eco-efficiency. It is expected that there will be a slight decrease in the increase in import and export over the next few years but that the level of commerce will remain positive and high, i.e. About 3.6% per year from 2018 to 2023. The rise of the last disturbance has contributed to an investment in the economy. Business roads have grown rapidly over the past few years, and an investment in an apartment building was greatly appreciated in 2016. Investment is expected to maintain the economy and increase to an average of 5.2% per year during this period and to be 21% between 2018 and 2023. According to the economic forecast, a large business investment in the coming years will decrease, but economic investment will increase again at the end of the era of financial policy. Despite considerable tension in the economy and substantial increases in pay in recent years, inflation has been at the end of the World Bank for almost four years. Practical external trends, such as low inflation in business countries and gang support, have been involved in this. This has resulted in a decrease of 1.5 percent in interest from about a year ago. Forecasts estimate that inflation will occur or slightly above a target from the current year through the foretold period, but within the limits of the inflation target. The success of the national economy followed by financial policy will result in economic growth over the period of considerable growth and thus would be the longest economic growth in history. A respectable president. It is the aim of this financial policy to ensure the proper balance between pay and government income. At the same time, the policy provides solid basis for implementing plans and supporting the political goals established by a political accord. The position of the state funds is stronger than it has been for years, and these prospects remain positive. Yet, you should take it seriously and respond to signs of a slow down in the economy in the next few years. The improved status of the state funds is new to strengthen the infrastructure, social and social. Emphasis is placed on the fact that spending policy ensures wide - wide well - being services and promotes smoothing and social reconciliation. Care continues to continue to continue paying off the debt so that government funds will be used to cope with muscle contractions or subsequent traumas. Furthermore, the decrease in debt is a legal matter to younger and future generations. The financial policy set out an objective to cover the total debt of the public, i.e. Part A is constantly decreasing over the five-year period, from about 38% of gross domestic production at the end of 2017, to about 25% of gross domestic product in 2022. It should be noted that, according to policy, the debt of the government will meet a law on public finances and will be less than 30% of GDP in 2020. This is one year later than previously anticipated plans, but the explanation is that rural debt is increasing by about half of the population population population. 1% of the GDP due to their contribution to the pension fund Bridge on Pension bonds. It was not expected in previous schedules on these subjects. In addition, financial policy aims to reduce the debt of the A-part State Fund over the next few years and to eliminate about 31% of GDP by the end of 2017, to about 25% of GDP by the end of 2020. Clearly, for this goal to be achieved, more need to be done than leftovers that can be picked up every year. So the policy is, in nature, cautious and supports the self-sustaining objectives of diversity. The building of a national fund to meet unforeseen events, which would be financed by the regular interest paid by partners in state - owned tickets to the same degree. The economic policy objective changes from previous policies and programmes, but the decline is expected to bring good results over the course of the policy, even though it is slightly reduced. There are two things to look at here, one on the other hand, economic forecasts are expected to decrease the rate of economic growth in the coming years and the prospects are far less critical. This is true, for example, in business balances and development of exports, especially services. However, the target phrase reflects the changed focus of a new government. These changes are referred to a detailed covenant of government. As noted earlier, the main purpose of financial policy is to ensure sustainable development of public finance and continued stability and balance in the economy. According to current economic and public financial standards, policy aims that the total A State Fund will become 1.2% of GDP in 2018, 0.2% higher if compared with the approved budget of 2017. The policy then allows for continued moderate and sustained change over the entire period, although the growth of the financial situation will gradually be reduced as well as the decline in economic expansion. Thus, there will be no less than 1% of GDP in 2019 and no less than 0.8% of gross domestic product at the end of the period. The Kingdom Fund's target means that the rest of the government budget will be, in general, a total of 263/433 billion dollars. In a year or more than 140 billion years. accumulated over time. Proservation may create space for management of state funds to deliver waste during the period that will exceed the minimum limit recommended by the policy. A respectable president. I've been tracking several key aspects of the government's financial policy in the years 2018/22022. Its primary objective is to promote long-term economic balance and to promote sustainable government management by ensuring a proper balance between pay and government income. The government's financial policy gives clear evidence that it is being done in a time of economic conditions that will be used for the building of essential building, as well as the gratifying of the debt of the state, thus preparing for future generations. I would like to say a few words at the end of my talk about the procedure we are in. Since the introduction of financial policy, we have been given the opinion of a financial body that follows the case through Congress. There are various indications, one regarding many aspects of the work that governments can consider with regard to reforms in mind. These include the call for us to find out what the economic fluctuation corrected for public wealth really is. Then there are much discussion of the uniqueness of fortune - tellers and other factors. For this reason, I want to say that in the Ministry of finance, we have been working on this project through a special program in which we are trying to strengthen the entire budget of public financial production and to meet helpful tips, such as those presented by financial advisers in recent years. I can agree with the financial Council on the economic rhythm corrected rest, that it might be useful for the discussion to keep such information on hand. However, in the context of the fact that there will never be very accurate science, it is a way of approach to reality that humans are trying to deal with, and an enormous number of uncertainties that may come to the conclusion of the economic rhythm-corrected change. It can also be said that there are many other things that economic policy is based on the future, that changes in private consumption, changes in business practices in business countries, increases in demand within the country, more production trends than humans have provided in economic models, can have a significant effect both in making the movie more efficient than on the other side. In the event that there is a financial problem, less damage to our business markets, etc, it can have a major impact on the main issues of financial policy living at any time. That's even. of this reason, as noted in the report on the financial policy, it is a problem to fix down the numbered target of five years to the point of overall recovery and debt development because of the large cumulative impact of change in national interest predictions in the latter part of the forecast period, or in this case of the second part of the financial policy period. It is a matter of caution in the financial policy that I like to conduct, because it takes a considerable amount of money to be reviewed within the terms of the term. The law considers the need for some of the main leaders of the policy to smile. The fact is, though, that even if it does not take place, e.g. A decrease in economic growth rate per year or that other underlying economics change to some extent may be a cumulative effect of such a level of economicism or its basis for a significant upset. Then there are indications in the opinion of a financial Council that aims to read with financial policy itself various aspects of the Treaty and that it may be of concern to reduce taxes at the same time as high production tension is in the economy if other measures are not to be taken. It is quite possible to agree with the financial Council on such general economic tips, that such measures will be timed for other economic activities. I believe that when you look at the detailed goals found in financial policy there is no reason except that the government will carry out its main policies in a way that allows you to meet the goals for the recovery and debt development established in the programme itself. This is the key issue, the government means what it says with its targets of recovery, the debt targets set up here, and the measures it has otherwise planned for the constitution and will include. appearing in the state financial policy for the next year, in accordance with that. It will arrange time and further action in relation to the time span, or it will produce the negative effects of the financial Council. At the end, it is interesting to look back, at the same time as you look in the way we do here, and wonder how the past few years have passed, what has been left of national interest, and how the theories conflict with what we have seen. Let's say, for example. By 2017, we had just about 5% economic growth. We lost the income tax, we permanently cut off the middle phase, and then we reduced the lower level, and the last customs action occurred. The pay sheet went up just 7% that year. After listing all of this, someone might say to me: Well, that must have become a lot of production. The fact is, however, that the bat dropped growth, inflation was about 1.4%, and in recent national forecasts that are facing the future are saying that indeed there are considerable tensions in real estate markets and property levels, but in other respects there are good economic prospects. That is true of all fortune - tellers. But in this room, we are also to look to the one that can stumble on the other side, i.e. things that can go wrong. It must be part of the discussion here because of this case that I suggest to go to the relevant committee after the discussion and then to the second. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u41	A respectable president. I would like to learn some aspects of the financial policy that are to be included in it under official financial law, where there will be a policy on the scope, supply and development of property, debt and the long - term debt of the public and public parties in general. I don't see in financial policy that there is a special discussion on the development of long - term commitments, hence pension bonds and other commitments. However, they should be discussed for at least Five years old at the same time. It is especially taken out of the chart on the development of debt and possessions and on the same page. Pension bonds are not included. I'll ask the secretary why. I've heard that before, but I don't think that's a good explanation that this is not included in financial policy. At least they should show the position and just tell them that it's going to be the same thing or something about the same thing, whatever it is. I miss this part. The second thing I'd like to ask a minister is what is to be done under the law, that economic policy meets the baselines and conditions listed, i.e. requirement for overall balance, total debt and debt ratio. I see in the financial policy that it's just a sentence that says the Council confirms that all baselines and conditions are met. I was looking for support for the fact that it's being followed, for example. a baseline transparency, but there is not a single word on the structure of financial policy unless specific financial laws are referred to. So I ask for lack of logic in terms of baseline and conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u42	A respectable president. With respect to baseline values, it may be said that the complete document is one continuous evidence of being careful about all baseline values, and then we receive a financial body opinion that will provide further coverage. In fact, the opinion of a financial body suggests that it could be done by quantifiable analysis, that you might even visualize certain predictions, dig deeper into the precise impact of policy development. But that is one of these challenges that we face. We have some forecasts that we then set financial policy on top, which would require that a new forecast be made that would take into account the impact of the policy on progress. It's where we need something to face the administrative infrastructure, if I can bring it here, are not strong enough. Our ability to cooperate with our own national interest model and to predict the future has simply not been progressively developed. We have placed our primary trust in the abilities of the Navy bank in this matter and then the Haust lab. In fact, in recent years, I have been led to believe that we need to strengthen the financial office at the Ministry of finance and, as a matter of fact, I also count to some extent at the Ministry of Presidency in order to get further into this. As for the long-term commitments, I refer to the changes that have occurred in the A department that have actually brought her into the future that it should be self-sustained. [[The president calls.]] But I don't know how to trace it to the full. I just need to learn more why other commitments have not become part of the plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u43	A respectable president. I'm glad then we're getting an overview of the long-term commitments into the committee or something like that, but on the other hand, on the next financial policy, I hope we're way too far away from having to go on that adventure again. In the financial policy, it is said that there was a change in forecast. The economists, which led to a change in the outlook that led to less activity and contractions in tourism, etc. 1 percent less economic growth than financial policy. This is with respect to baseline values, especially those at baseline with caution. Why, then, is it not based on careful forecasting? I find that it is clearly contrary to baseline values, especially in view of the fact that in view of the fact that in time the U.S. Sullabanki of Iceland made a new national forecast that would go wrong with the careful forecasting of the Hague lab. There's some travel between 2017 and 2018, and so on, there's a little bit unclear what you can read about in the financial policy, so that if a minister went over that process only and the new experiments made for financial policy, it would be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u44	President. I'm glad to discuss only abnormal predictions in this context because it has a direct connection with what I said in my historical history about the problem of maintaining an absolute fixation of five years into the past. What the predictions revealed was how rapidly the uncertainty can build up. If there is a deviation in the first year, which will increase by the second, third, or fourth, then from the original national economic development programmes, there will be a problem. As a result, there may be serious problems for the government and the General at the time to meet the debt and survival goals set up five years earlier. That's what I think was the greatest benefit of our interpretation. In terms of the predictions to be made, the law has provided a measure of guidance. We'll just take over the National Standards and use them the way they happen, whether worse or better. However, I fear that at some point in the future, there is a government with a long-term policy for a five-year period of government funds that has not been exposed to major economic events like those that can open up a new financial policy but that have a slight variation year after year gathering the effects of the government into a tight position.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for a great tour of finance policy. As shown by the minister's case, it is certainly being tried to lay the foundation for forecasts and models, such as by such policies to four years of age. As a result, it is not unusual for certain warnings to follow. On the other hand, the minister's comments on financial policy were also found in the words of the critics. However, in the previous answer, I would like to review a comment that came from Reykjavík for the 2017/2022 financial policy where Reykjavíkurborg criticized programs regarding the A-part of the community; considered the part of the planned, that the tablets or models were missing from the high cost pressure at least in the countryside at that time. Reykjavíkurburg also shows a degree of criticism, not taking into account the demand of income due to lack of financial support for rural society due to the implementation of tasks, etc. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in this first answer to whether this new financial policy has been reviewed and taken into account the comments made by Reykjavíkurburg, and then I allow myself to say the concern of the rural society you have heard of. that the economic pressures we know of many who have been involved in rural affairs, which are always on the expenses of the rural communities, whether preschooled or whatever.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u46	A respectable president. The conversation with rural society is primarily a relationship. It is in itself the only situation where the government of any time can communicate with one party about the overall state of the government. This indication was taken from Reykjavíkurburg, which no doubt intended by pointing out that there was a considerable amount of cost pressure in the area, and it may have been looked forward to the fact that in the event of an election, there was no too much need for men to bind their hands. It is true that the city has a large volume of its total share in the country. On the contrary, what's been said there is that the survival of the unit management level has so much improved in such a short time that the rural communities are adding more to the overall effort in this program than in the last one. So this trend is very positive. We have previously taken a brief discussion of gangs at the rural level in general, and many know this, especially in smaller rural areas, that it has been a real challenge to keep debts in order and to make ends meet, meeting key issues in many countries. So finally, the economic problem began to go through the hatch so that most earners, at least I dare say many things, neither stood they beyond the gate of income, namely: More growth was on the income side than they had anticipated. It has paid for better living, more ability to reduce debt, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u47	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is now that after a few months, between 120 and 130 days, the government votes. It can be expected, especially in view of what a minister says about the growth of the community in recovery, that there will be a moral hazard in the community during the election campaign of making large investments or other expenses. It makes you wonder how this affects financial policy. It may not have such an effect in the long run, but you wonder whether there is a basis for reviewing financial policy - I can't remember if it's under the law - in view of what people are going to do with elections. I have no doubt that this blessed city of Reykjavík, which is now fired as I don't know what, must promise much, especially this great, amazing line that everyone's talking about. A respectable president. But I would like to ask the highest. Minister to what is stated in financial comments. It says, by permission of the president: It is important that the analyses of the produced effects of the proposedinvestors are made to support the economy and the priorities of projects. In setting priorities, it is also important to consider making a lot of money. Now the government has proclaimed large investments and, as a result, uncertainly, how much effort is being made. Based on the statements that have been made, you wonder if you have been in the analysis of the financial Council here, what is the result of your investment. We must see that it is very important that the investment in infrastructure not only be made to expand and increase in in inflation but also that there will be balance on these investments, resulting in increased revenues of the first estate. You have wondered, " Is there anything to worry about in order for me to go deeper into and see if the Minister and the Ministry has gone into it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u48	A respectable president. In itself, I can't say much more about the state level, whether human beings are in danger of maintaining the goals we've agreed on. However, all of this has a definite consultation process, the object of which is counted for the level of government, and that will not go away, as it would be difficult to find the country society responsible for it. But, of course, the largest rural community has to do with the overall results for the rest of the rural community. And the same with the development of debt. There are only a small number of rural areas today that do not achieve 150% of credit criteria. It's all been developing in the right direction. Then it's aboutinvestment. We have generally referred to investments in transport manpowers, tangible investments, as investments, and we have also talked about the social infrastructure. I'd like to mean that with a new financial bill, the investment in this sense has already begun with a considerable emphasis on health and social matters, education. We will then continue such structure, including Based on the long-term design of these agents, the transport domain. However, regarding the need for the leading of such decisions, I want to agree wholeheartedly with the financial Council that it is necessary to ensure that national prosperity is seen when such decisions are made. If something is, I think maybe it's the best of the council that has failed to establish its priorities in this way and has preferential political emphasis, as they have once been.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u49	Mr. President. I'm gonna have a few words on finance policy at the highest level. The secretary of finance has discussed only the matter. I'm going to review the criticism that I think we need to look into, and especially the criticisms that so - called financial schemes have published. It is important to recognize the role of financial advisers. A financial body is independent of its jobs, and the Council is simply intended to evaluate objectively whether financial and financial policies, when they arrive later in spring, follow the baseline values of the public financial legislation. These are the baseline values we all agree on, i.e. Sustainableness, caution, stability, fixation and transparency. I brought up some of the financial criticisms of last night's financial policy. V.E.G. A minister said that it was not a good analysis of my opinion, but I think it would be more reasonable to say that the analysis of a financial council is not good for the highest level. Secretary of finance. You see, the policy is said to be a flounder. It's said to be indistinct and unsolvable. It is also a saw that is conservative, that policy is lacking, that is, in the opinion, and that it can contribute to instability. The analyses are said to be low and the predictors are homogeneous. In fact, it is of particular interest to note that social stability is not emphasized by the coming phenomenon, such as financial planning. Here my friends in the left green should save their ears, for this was our discussion in the leading of approved budgets, that not only are economic stability important but also social stability. It needs to be held in hand. In the United States, we have repeatedly noted that we do not see political wills to promote social stability. We are also concerned that there is a potential for economic stability. I remember already the highest. Secretary of finance was elected at the same time as I was elected to the council 15 years ago. There was a lot of talk about it, and I've heard all my political careers, much less independenceal importance on stability. I've learned long ago that the words are empty, they're just fragrants. I keep remembering the discussions here, in which we in the opposition of the time severely criticized the minister of finance of the Independence Party for the release of government funds, for making unwise economic decisions. At the beginning of my speech, I will draw special attention to the words of the minister earlier when he began talking about the need to lower taxes. Of course, it may be important to reduce taxes, but like the highest taxation rate. A minister's name is all the timing. He noted, in support of his case, that he had met up with a fall in taxes at a time that did not result in increased expansion, but he refused to mention that it was a special time. We had very little imported inflation, no matter what in Europe, about zero growth in Europe, some countries were negative, we had one piece of macroil stock that swam into our jurisdiction, and so much of the tourist flow into our country. These were the positive external circumstances that, of course, helped our swinging economy. The majority of experts - most business experts and economists - say that it is a mistake to reduce much of the tax when it is thin. The timing is correct at the highest level. Ministers, timings are important, and, of course, the right time to reduce taxes, e.g. When we need to stimulate the economy, but in the pressure we now live, it's not good economics, and it's not good politics. We need to be careful about this, fear of God. These days, the agricultural revolution is nine years old. Why was the agricultural revolution? Because there was an economic collapse. That is why we need to learn from experience. Why was the cabliber's collapse in its time? Let's go to a historical review and put things in context. If the failure of these three major Icelandic banks were to be combined in one bankruptcy, it would be as if it were the third - largest failure in the history of the United States. It would have been a bigger bankruptcy than Enron, one of the most famous bankruptcyes in human history, so to speak. The loss caused by the currency of the Icelandic bank is about half of Marshall's help. Everyone here and elsewhere knows what Marshall aid was, and in this regard, I'm not talking about the Marshall Help to Iceland, I'm talking about Marshall Support to Europe. If we look at them, we'll find that the dollars lost because of the collapse of the Icelandic economy and the failure of the three banks are about half of the Marshalls. The volume lost during the collapse was higher than any foreign assistance to Africa, which has some 1.4 billion inhabitants. Sports are a threat to this. I recall because one of the main findings of the II Parliament's research committee was that in the wake of the crash, the other was the result of the collapse. Be bad management. One of the first points brought by the Allied Research Committee when the government of that day reduced taxes at the wrong time. They poured oil on fire. It matters, therefore, that I am warning the Minister not to go to taxes during our filing hours. There's a lot of expansion in the community, there was a lot of economic growth last year, 67% interest, which is such an Asian economy. Economic growth is only shrinking, but it is still very much, and in this environment it is not good to have a massive tax reduction. That's what I'm saying. Full feet. Of course, I know taxes are not popular, but we also have to figure out what we get for our taxes. Taxation is the price we pay to live in a civilized society, was once said. At the same time that we call for more money in the wood, it should not be my opinion to lower taxes, but here I am focus on the fact that economics are not wise to go on that route at this point. The very caution is found in the opinion of a financial conference on the financial policy that says, by permission of a president: A reduction in the rate of high production potential can be seen as a contribution to economic stability unless it is associated with another. This is not done in policy. So, in the opinion, says a little bit later: The reduction in taxes under these circumstances leads to increased inflation and is also an expanding factor. if other revenues are not increased or reduced government expenses at the same time. The policy does not list any such actions. So this is the conclusion of a financial body that is trying to make a objective assessment of the government's financial policy and is just warning us not to make mistakes again in the past. What happens if we pour oil on the fire and increase the spell, increase the production potential? There's only two things that happen, interest goes up, 'cause government is a part of the economy, and then there's money policy. If, unfortunately, the government business that they do is too often overexploited, too much lack of discipline must be taken in. And what are the resources of the Navy Bank? It's the interest level, the growth weapon, and if we go on that expedition, because we believe in the older that we always have to lower taxes or that our right political bitch always calls for a tax drop to be right, the Icelandic home will pay the bill with a interest increase and, on the other hand, an increasing inflation. This is happening, economics are not rocket science, and this has been said for decades. It was one political leader who said that the economic law was not in Iceland. Of course, the same laws apply in Iceland and elsewhere. That is why we need to pay attention to experts. I know that economics are not science, these are social sciences, and there are economists who disagree completely, but economists still agree surprisingly, even. this point. Let's not lower taxes, at least. not to some extent, in the time of production and thawing. It is now. That is why we need to be careful. Aside from all of us's promises that we were not going to reduce any government expenditures. As I mentioned in my speech yesterday, no group of people were going to reduce their government fees to beat the spell, but it's also possible. We can beat the spell by reducing our government budget or increasing our income. This government doesn't do either. Therefore, I am deeply concerned with the economic management we see in this policy as well as the political ones that can be found in the government covenant. Let's go into the face of this policy a little bit. How happy we are that we are now working in harmony with a new government law! We made a big deal of it when we discussed a bill for financial support. We still see too much money and much of it is soon to remember that last year's budget was about 25 billion. I think most of us would agree that we never want to see that kind of money again. A minister in his talk earlier said that such predictions and such a course to five years of age were a means of approach to reality. Away from that, I think both the Ministry of Economics and anyone involved in this case can do better when it comes to planning. If we look at the rest of the North countries, they're using e.g. to a considerable lesser degree, they use budgets. Of course, they're dealing with the same mood swings that we do, so I'm calling for an improved plan, an increase in professionalism, and an increase in awareness. Something's been missing. There is a certain lack of discipline, and that is not just to this government. I'm not going to teach the highest. Secretary of finance about that. It's an old problem we have to deal with. We also need research. As we have here, even. In the opinion of a financial body, they can deepen only the projections, have varied, use greater power in the analysis, and so on. In this regard, it might be possible to review a good Senate case to restore national interests. At the time, she was laid down in some rage of ancient times. Secretary of finance. I think there is a great lack of an institution like a national economy, which is an important diagnostic phenomenon as it was back then. At the same time, I think we at the Council would need a much better access to economic analyses and economics. It should be a slow game for us, being financial, promoting a little more general in this area. Then I also believe that our criticism of finance ministers and advisers in general will improve. I press this challenge in the Hall of Congress: Why do we not promote the services that the World Council enjoys when it comes to economic analysis and so forth? Here's a job for most people to consider. But we need to resolve this, it's not a right/left case, it's simply making the discussion deeper and more professional. There are some things at the end that I would like to mention as a financial adviser, so to speak. They are concerned that there is not enough maintenance. This has to do with what I said just before about the taxes. A financial body says, for example, by permission of the President: Therefore, it is possible to wonder whether the landing of the economy will be as smooth as expected in the estimate of the policy. Soft landings are an exception to the rule of the Icelandic economy, so financial advice, as mentioned above, is that it would be desirable to find an analysis of its consequences in case of a different situation... Later in the poll, it says: The Council of Justice wants to reiterate his comments made in earlier groups for the rest of the government business does not necessarily reflect the maintenance of public funds. There are certain factors that they draw out there and go deeper into the possibility of slowing down the maintenance phase, despite the words of the highest degree. Secretary of finance earlier. Again, a little further into, by permission of the President: U.S.A. said that it seemed that the government was stepping onto the fuel supply when they were supposed to be braking, and the maintenance level continued to be relaxed. It appears now that the re-administration is being made at the same time as uncertainty has increased. That, of course, is against it. The secretary of finance is always talking about, that he is the advocate of maintenance and stability. We can see it in black and white. This is not a new criticism of the independence economy, as it is. It also says that policy is simply lacking. Now I see my time is running out. Of course, we receive the Senate resolution on a budget committee, so there is a unique opportunity for us on the committee to take a little deeper into this matter and to consider it, since economicism in general is not changing. That is why it is a bit critical that we get financial policies that get a drop score from independent and neutral parties, such as financial advisers. A trend in general is not to change. She may change in exceptional circumstances, but in general she should not. Therefore, I have to say that this document would make me feel a little dissatisfaction and would have expected us to have a better document, especially in the light of previous financial criticism at our previous financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u50	A respectable president. I'd like to say only a few words about the economy in general. Who has she been for the past few years? We're returning the rest of the year by year, fifth consecutive year. We've canceled a currency head. It's been a priority. We have paid up hundreds of billions of debts. We have a faster payment than any other European country. Far beyond that. We've just paid about 200 billion into the pension debt and made the A department self-sufficient. Inflation has been below the limits for four years, as in my introduction. This has, of course, resulted in the increase in the ratings at the Iceland State Fund. This is the score the economy in general has just received. Now we're looking ahead. Each step into the future should always be taken into consideration when it comes to these matters. But there is no question that in recent years, we have been doing well and have yielded a lot of results. has returned to an extremely high level of buying. I just want to come in on a few other things. This is where they reviewed the banks' losses. Happily, the loss of foreign parties was at its disposal. It's important to bring it along. For tax reductions: Hv. During the 2003 election, a senator spoke extensively about the tax reductions that had been reported to date badly. I think it's far from the fact that tax declines back then were the main cause of the crash. I agree with some men who are here to comment on the discussion and to point even. in the financial Council to be careful about the level of tensions of the economy when the taxes are determined. But we may have done better in that, or may we be able to do more, considering the effects of payoffs and national benefits every time we add to the charge side. [[The president calls.]] Our doubts always come when we talk about tax losses, but they never doubt that every cent is well spent on the expense side.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u51	Mr. President. What I'm trying to do is criticize the economy of independence for a few years back. I think the inflation has even. Otherwise, you'll have to be low despite the economy. I think the highest. Secretary of finance is dressing up with stolen feathers. Why has there been a low in Iceland? V.E.G. The minister of finance is well aware of this. There's been a very low import of inflation. There is virtually no inflation in Europe. It's the highest. A minister of finance to thank him too? That has a tremendous effect on us, who are deeply involved in importing. We need to build our economy a great deal on the import. V.E.G. A financial minister also knows well that outside conditions were very positive. When it comes to our fishing products, we had a very positive business. This is where one piece of mackerel stock came in. Makrill has become the second most desirable fish in his jurisdiction. It's not one of those perimeter fish that came here in a really good time. And then, of course, the tourists. Five hundred thousand tourists in 2008 or what it was, 2.5 million today. So, yes, the situation has worked with us, but the situation in the economy has been positive because of these factors, not because of the independent regime. On the contrary. I just feel like they're getting a fall average from a drop score. The financial advisers and other sources who have warned: Do not make the same mistake as in leading the crash. The Allied Research Committee specifically stated that the tax reductions in the fallway were wrong, were expanding. Meriad chicken was at the wrong time. The concierge bank wasn't conservative enough, i.e. he did not grow up enough. These were all the points pointed to by the General Commission. That's why I'm afraid that maybe we're repeating the game. Of course, I realize we're not about to experience something like a crash, and last time, there's a bit of air. What goes up comes back down. We'll experience sooner than we can see a down cycle in our economy. That's why it's so important that we don't pour oil on a fire, such as. with unplanned decreases in taxation, contrary to experts' advice, during the period of production and thawing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u52	A respectable president. Of course, the key is the conclusion. There's been room for tax doctors. We've improved the households' leeway. We want people to maintain a higher proportion of self - resources, and they have been successful. I think that's something to celebrate. However, if you want to argue that it was wrong to go to income taxes and tolls and tolls, etc. They are free to do so. I just have to say that there was a situation in which to attack all those operations, and this has resulted in a tremendous amount of long - term benefits. Homes have stronger positions, they can be seen even. of their debt status, etc. The cost offlation has been low, including Because the trade industry has, of course, been a favorable and low inflation in business countries. That's why the gang's been getting stronger. that Iceland's competitive branch, its exports, has improved. How do they recover? With it, including not having a euro, by having an independent currency, we adapted to conditions in a very short time and achieved a much faster economic advantage than our neighboring state. This is especially evident when we compare ourselves with other countries. In general, I'd like to draw attention to what says in the financial council that you have to distinguish between the primary equation and the capital teams on the other hand. As we examine the financial policy and actually the budget of the current year with eyeglasses, it is very evident how powerful the original equation is in Iceland. He's enormously strong. It is likely the strongest in Europe that Greece might not. This shows the will to have something refreshing here when necessary. During this next period of economic policy, we have expected permanent rest throughout our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u53	Mr. President. V.E.G. Secretary of finance talks about the space for tax doctors. But why not make room for more child development? V.E.G. The secretary of finance rejected that proposal a few weeks ago. Why is there no room for growth improvements? Why is there no room to let the Hospital survive? Why is there no room to improve the quality of disability and the elderly? These are all groups and institutions and resources of the welfare system, which I would think we should use to improve. That is exactly what financial advice, including. says, "We need to put more in the wood." It takes neglect of the inside. That is why it would be wise for me to make wise economics and a better political bitch to take advantage of the scope that may include. Be explained by positive external effects. Use it to add to the interior, to the institutions we live in, reduce inequities, make our community better for everyone. It's so obvious to the point of the church. V.E.G. Secretary of finance spoke of the euro. He talks like a gangring is just some kind of magic solution. Who's paying for a gangsta? It's always the public. The public always pays for a gang fold. This knows every person who knows something for the better, gangring is a terrible way to correct the standard of living. It won't be free. If we had had the euro in the leading of the crash or in the collapse, we would not have experienced this so - called twin crisis. We would have experienced a bank crisis, not a currency crisis. Despite difficulties in Europe, the Euro did not fail. Our crown collapsed so completely into the floor that half was enough. And it can be mentioned specifically that most of Iceland's largest companies are already up in euros. That's incredibly unfair to me. Why can it be done in the Emirates at the same time that the fish miller working for him has to settle in the crowns?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u54	A respectable president. Because the senator's opinion of a financial council was so well - thought - out, I would like to reason on the figures above the total, and so on the streets, which appear on the front cover of the Senate, where a financial council is wondering why it is not given within certain limits where the highest and the lowest levels of public life are expected to reach, but a fixed number is presented. Then I wondered: " Since a fixed number is stated, it is reasonable not to give back what is worse than the number. Then I find it obvious to ask: " Why is it not reasonable for me not to give up the higher figure? If it goes well and actually gets more money from a government fund than the policy and budgets expected, why shouldn't the government be on the brakes to follow its policy and reach goals regarding its overall recovery? It will be a moral hazard when things are done well and when they are spent in additional ways. Maybe they pay off debt and stuff like that, like the last financial policy, which could be a way to set things off, but I don't see such a thing in this direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u55	Mr. President. I agree with it. A senator says at the end. If a program is produced by the State, the Ministry, or the Ministry, it should be a goal in itself to stick to it. Of course, we need to be consistent in this regard. That is why I spoke a lot about it in my speech earlier that the plan was smooth and would have been that long. That's why I called for further advice. I'd like to promote the Ministry of Economics, for example. I used to be a minister of the economic advisers, so I know a lot about the problems I faced. I want to promote the ministry, increase their numbers of experts, for it is important that there are good people there who can do work at the time that action demands. We can't see that. We can see that the Ministry has different strengths. In this context, I specifically mentioned how badly the council is prepared when it comes to economic analysis. As I said, it is slow to fix it, and in itself it takes nothing so much in the case of the council. We're getting better planning, better government affairs, smaller anomalies, more presumption, and that's got to be the interests of taxpayers. I agree with it as a matter of course. A senator could - and I think financial counsel is independent from the Ministry of finance, even though a minister has some members - that financial advisers say there is no better analysis and a variety of predictors. Especially do they ask in their opinion why they do not set up different stage illustrations, such as low forecasting, middle forecasting, and high forecasting. For four years, I was at the branch office of the Federal Bank, where we were always given high forecasts, fortune - tellers, and low - forecasts. That helped a lot. This is something that I take my heart to the financial board... to have to make up for something like financial policy. It will be interesting to see if the financial programme, which, of course, will be more advanced and more specific than this, but at least here is an opportunity at least to respond to some of the critical points that appear before the financial agenda comes to us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u56	A respectable president. In a matter of what. A senator noted that taxes are being lowered and there is some evidence that the economy is being fueled, as it were, pushing on the spell, etc. Then I want to set a stage for it. Suppose the overall result at the end of 2018 or 2018 is not 1.2% of gross domestic product but 1.5%. It'll make more money. Then the government suddenly has 0.3% of GDP to do something about it. The temptation to use it in some new project that everyone calls for is natural. But these projects are not likely to be in financial or financial policy or even financial matters. A policy with an absolute constant number is developed - it is likely that there are small variations, limits to the number you can count as normal, scientific deviations - but all in equal terms as you are heading for expansion, the management has failed in the inhibition of the economy. The policy says: "No, we're going to keep the charge down, and we're not going to return the overall supply that's higher or lower than this. Then the State should stick to it. If there is a breach in progress and everything is headed for an external vehicle, the government should take action that will move the remainder back towards the direction, in order to maintain the stability and stability of the policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u57	Mr. President. It is likely that it is difficult to control the government, whether it is a trust or a recession. That is why I make a lot of sense that we listen to experts who point them out to us to use the resources at the right time, as with the tax cuts. We're in T-minus. Experts say: "You don't cure taxes. It's like pouring oil on a fire. When there's a recession, let's lower taxes. They need to be encouraged. I believe economics, as Keynes spoke for, use the government budget for fluctuation. That's what we're supposed to do. It's the best thing for the public. All too often, in the financial affairs, we slacken the hand, the temptation problem is great in our profession. In the end of the election, we're praising all beautiful things, and so on. and the projects are quite numerous, but we need to get up and be realistic, for otherwise it is the other person who smells about the economy or the public economy that comes to the attention of us. This is the government budget, which is then the State's budget, and so is the Federal Bank. If we were to tap a handout or pour oil on a fire in a expanding environment, as if the tax dropped today, the other smell of the state's funds would have to go into operation, i.e. The penitentiary. Actually, he has only the means of raising interest. The price of money is really money. The bank increases growth in the expansion environment to make money more expensive. This is the means and model he's working for. Humans may be able to criticize the Penitentiary Bank, but this is what most depositors use. We need to be careful, especially in the situation right now, because it's thin, but there's a bit of air. For example, let us look for a longer time, and it is positive that financialism exists for five years, but it also puts us in the trouble that we are binding the next government, which is sobering to us whether we can do it, and we cannot, in fact, do it. [[The president calls.]] Still, it is very positive that there is a longer period of effort here, but then we shall have the plan better than this document shows us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u58	V.E.G. President. We're going to discuss a proposal for a hearing on financial policy in the course of 2018/2022, a proposal to the highest degree. The government, along with the contributions of a budget bill, presented as the current government law on public finances that is being measured, i.e. The financial policy that is being discussed. I'm going to discuss this resolution more from form than material in a previous discussion, and I'm going to tell you because it's special that before the proposal goes into discussion and it comes to a committee that's under the guidance of a financial committee. Of course, such circumstances can arise, in accordance with the law and nothing unnatural, as I say, will end up fully in accordance with official financial law, which says that financial counsel should be passed on to the Council on policy no later than two weeks after the Council has been submitted to the Council and the same is true of financial planning. This, of course, is a little special, though I would like to insist that many tips in the review of the financial Council are very useful, as mentioned in the discussion, but it is not until the case arises that financial advice is readily available. The legal committee that follows its comments. So I'm going to keep the temptation to direct this review to them, although I have a clear understanding that it lays the basis for a discussion about the subject and the media coverage. In addition, some of the policy debates were mixed with a discussion on the bill for budgets provided by the General Assembly for annual conventions. Thus, the more dignified president may say that the discussion of policy is already a mature one, but we may always get used to it in a previous discussion. Of course, I'm not going to make any assessment as to whether it would be any worse if things were not the same. I think it's fine for the discussion. Like I said, I'm going to discuss this more from the form. First, I'd like to say that when we discuss economic management, we have a rough analysis of two policies, it's a money policy, and on the other hand, it's a government policy like we're talking about here and now. The policy of money is as we know at the hands of Iceland's National Bank and shall include the bank. The law of the law promotes the advancement of the economy as long as it does not violate the primary objective of continuous prices. That's the main objective we so often talk about here. The law on public financial matters is the legal arrangement that has the basis of Article 1. Acting on the goal of promoting good economic management and is the firm that we have on government policy and planning, implementation and recognition of public funds. Il. the section of these laws will discuss in detail the procedure set out here. In Comb 4. Legally, financial policy is being discussed and prescribed when the government should submit such policy, but it is as soon as possible after a government is formed or no longer than with a financial bill, which was the case this time as we all know. Such policies should include the scope, supply and development of possessions, the debt and long-term debt of public members in general and the public to no less than five years. The aim of the policy should be set out as a proportion of GDP, as shown by the targets presented in a table at the head of the Convention Recontraction Directive. Further, financial policy should be based on a baseline level of 6. Act on sustainability, caution, stability, stability and transparency and conditions 7th sector. on the development of yields and debts. It is important that I, a respected president, discuss the policy in this context, the framework of public finance, economic grounds, interaction with money policy, and the projects we are facing. Of course, there is a political treaty where we can see the highest intentions. Governments, the Annexe Treaty, Independence Party, and Left Missions for cooperation, and there the economic and economic sectors take their place and recognize the importance of maintaining economic balance and maintaining the results of the past losses. Hence, this course is essential to the ultimate. A government will keep up with the plans presented in the covenant. Balance is the absolute password and is a red thread in both the Treaty and in the policy we deal with here on which the government balance of budgets and income sources is concerned with investing resources to meet the cumulative need; in the presence of social support, increased support to the health system, and in the case of manpower, i.e. infrastructure, which lays the groundwork for the development and progress of the industry, especially a sensitive level and rapid growth of tourism. Balance is also reflected in the fact that when we consider the inevitable goals, the key issues are the key to such policies as being implemented in a financial programme that will be discussed in this spring. It is important to look for a positive result, a total of 1.4%, including rural areas, of GDP. Then the goal is to pay off debt and to reduce the burden of interest to the future. Considering all these factors, the scope of this discussion is considerable but necessary. This is an essential basis for discussion, I believe, for such discussions are a need and an important matter when we look at the course as the highest. Government sets. I'm stressing that, sir, a respectable president, that we look at this policy, we're not talking about here in the previous year, in connection with the future state financial programme and the implementation of this policy, so this course shall be in accordance with Article 4. Section 4. the law on government finance lays the foundation for the plan that we will discuss in spring. There's gonna be a closer photo of what we're talking about right now. V.E.G. A government puts up a strong economy as a foundation for social stability, to increase prosperity and improve quality of life. To that end, reliable foundations of the state's budget will be accompanied by a review of the current framework of the money policy, which is now at the end. It turns out that working market partnerships with real menial reforms are a key premise of maintaining balance and stable prices and lower growths, so that all of this stays at once and on top of it. The government first stressed and has already preached consultations with all labour markets. It's got the highest. The government stressed the negotiation of reducing income taxes to lower tax steps and the reduction of insurance costs during the season. The basis for this course, which we call economic forecasts, is for the decline in economic growth in the coming years. In that light, it is wise to make partial use of the resources needed for building and investing, but it is important to be careful to achieve the weight of interest and thus slowly increase the investment capacity to the future and contribute to long - term balance. In part, subsidies have been due to improved wages, but, of course, health and welfare costs have increased to the most important categories. Of course, it is a permanent project on government management that, while working to improve the quality of life and to ensure increased cost of premeditation, primary priorities are needed for the most important challenges, requiring a consistent and systematic analysis of expenses, reevaluation of such analyses and surveillance. In this regard, we should point to a special campaign called better management, which is designed to support and promote progress in public business. It is a ongoing project, but obviously it brings to mind the environment in which we have lived since the government law went into effect here. It was a law that emphasized long - term thinking, stability, and discipline in the implementation of financial laws and an improved account. The legal arrangement is set up with the aim of trusting the economic, economic, and financial resources of the public, as well as the help of the Generals to set their national goals and with much more detailed regulations on how to proceed with such policies as the ones we address and plan. In this time, a respected president, over two years since the law went into effect, we have chosen three times. So here we are considering a third course to five years of age with the political emphasis that follows such a course and a significant change in focus. It might be said, then, that we have not been able to get along properly with the law or with the level of trust that the law is designed to provide. This may be the most dramatic expression of the political instability that is often discussed. After all, it is important, as mentioned in the concluding words of a report, to win such a course with credibility. This does not occur in my mind in a different way than that policy implementation and implementation are in harmony with policy targets. Since we have actually not reached the point of this environment in the past two years, we have not properly tried the setting or policy established by governments. I say it here, Mr. Honorable President, hopefully it'll try. Hv. The legal committee will now take the matter into account. I appreciate the role of the financial Council in this policy process in which we receive opinions from a body that is independent of its jobs, as well as the role of Article 13. The law to automatically evaluate the course and schedule followed by the baseline value of 6 g. and conditions 7. and, in the same way, it gives more weight to the discussion that you are aware of here, both in the past. and then in the media coverage. Hv. A financial committee will now have the opportunity to review key tips presented in the council's opinion as well as other reports that will be received. In this context, I would like to draw up a repeated tip from the financial Council in previous opinions on the need for the interaction of forecasting and policy development. It points to a financial agenda that takes place in the interaction of a administrative agency that promotes policy and politics that lays the lines. Or, as shown on page 18. 10 In view of the financial Council, much of the policy centers on political and administrative discussions on goals, ways, and impacts. That's why this conversation is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u59	A respectable president. There are some things here that would be interesting to come to. First of all, I've previously complained about two aspects of financial policy development, one of which is the lack of a overview of the size and long-term commitment, and the last thing I mentioned when reviewing financial policy, i.e. The development of property. I find this interesting because we're going to talk about the founding economy maybe later today, which could help us keep track of property developments. The financial policy only deals with investments and infrastructure and how investments should develop where it is said to be kept in hand with the economy. Then I wondered, as much was said about the election infrastructure, that it should really be the same government investment rate as it was in 2010◯2016, reminds me that it was. So we'll keep the same government investment rate for the next five years as it was at the end of collapse. If there was a lack of structure at that time despite public investment rates, there must be much more now as there is a greater need for investment due to the enlargement of the economy. Then we must end up with the same problem, i.e. that we don't think about the infrastructure well enough. I wondered if I've missed something in the direction that makes it clearer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u60	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for his question. It's huge. First, whether something passed by. A senator about investments. I think I can answer no, I think that's why. A senator is very perceptive and hardworking when it comes to talking, that he is sure to have achieved everything in his course. It is true, however, that this is true. A senator says he was opposed. A senator and a chief. Secretary of the budget, missing an overview of long-term commitment. It's a perfect opportunity for you to do what you want. It's a budget for making good use of it. I think that was quite settled, and that's a very good question. For the development of property and indication. A senator on the founding economy bill we'll take this case into consideration later today, but we're looking at a completely modified economic production. We can take institutions like the Road Building and the National Guard. It'll be a completely different place. At any rate, I hope that it will give the right impression of property development as we watch long-term economic accounts and that it will help with that. We're dealing with the investments of industry and government. How important it is when we look at government investments when we look at projects that are profitable and practical! We may make the best use of it, and we may have more important priorities for such projects than ever before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u61	A respectable president. It is lacking in cost-and-benefit analysis, as financial advice points out. It's about going to the job, and, as the secretary of finance said, work is there, which is good. Although we do not fully know the real value, we have received some information about the need for an investment. That would be at least it is easy to discuss in financial policy how much to work on that cumulative investment need and how much the public will contribute there. To another matter that I complained about during my last financial policy and again here. I don't feel that I have any information about the next step, i.e. When a financial policy is proposed to be an indicator of the financial agenda of which topic areas will be emphasized in a financial program. What is the gross policy of the government in different areas of matter for the next five years? As a result, there should be clues as to the financial agenda of which litigation classes will be emphasized into budgets, which will eventually be implemented into the budget. I call for information on the cumulative investment needs and on emphasis, at least in terms of financial issues as it will be available later in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. In terms of policy development and the emphasis on the topic areas, the highest levels have been reached. The government put its emphasis on it and immediately gave it to its tone. There has been a lot of talk about infrastructure, but it was very prominent what the government's purpose toward the health system was to appear in those funds. Then a meeting with parties on the welfare and social systems was preached. Efforts to pursue higher education could be identified. I think that's what we're talking about. Part of the question was answered by a senator himself. We make sure when we talk about policy that there's more career than just policy, we see goals. We will see further implementation in the state budget of the budget of the budget. In policy, we see the targets, and then the timing of the application in the field and the responsibilities, as well as the larger sizes. Regarding investments in general, we talked about the importance of practicality and priorities. It is very important to the future that there is a measure of the structure of the work that we are looking at.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u63	A respectable president. First only in general is economicism, where it is just about the scope, development of possessions, debt, and long - term commitments. In financial policy, it should be confirmed that policy is consistent with the baseline and conditions listed in the law. It means sustainability, caution, stability, firmness and transparency on the other hand, i.e. for baseline values, as well as for total balance, total debt and then subject ratio. This policy should be confirmed based on these baseline and criteria. But I'm going to allow me to question the fact that there's enough to say and just agree, as it says in the Senate resolution of financial policy, that the Council confirmed that this financial policy is consistent with the baselines and conditions laid down in the government laws on public finance. It's not just saying it and stamping it out, it's got to explain it. Well, at least it's got to be necessary. However, if we go through the synonym, these baseline levels and conditions are referred to as follows: Self-sustainability is said to be self-involved if there are higher pay raise than production. This is likely to mean that the government's policy is to maintain any increase in pay within these productions or economic growths. However, I feel that there is no need to consider practicality and efficiency. You can achieve more production both by producing more without efficiency and efficiency as well as by maintaining the same production than by efficiency and economy and all of that. While production does not increase with efficiency, there is clearly room for raises. I'm not sure that this is necessarily an confirmation that financial policy is sustainable. But there is also the question of sustainable growth. The method is economic stability. That he will achieve some kind of sustainableity. These are naturally just circular, since one of the baseline values is used to explain that a different baseline value is achieved. Which only goes round and round. There must be some external evidence to confirm sustainability. A decrease in debt is taken as an action towards sustainability. I can totally agree with that. Financial regulations are then thanked for ensuring sustainable development in rural operations. It is also a circle of reasoning, for the financial rules are part of the conditions that need to be met. That's not easy to explain with regard to the insability. But one of the best baseline values discussed. In terms of caution, the course is said to be careful in nature. I miss the logic of that. Especially where there is a gentle economy, as I mentioned earlier, which has not since been pursued into financial policy development. A little more on that later. Then the stability. It is 19 times mention of some sort of stability. That the economic situation has been stable in recent years and the importance of stability. Yet, it is specifically said that the main sector of the economy is few and sensitive to external conditions. What is done to fix it? Based on the new release of a financial bill, the exact same problem with respect to the taxes is not done to strengthen these unstable capitals. However, it is a reminder of how falling economic balance is if only a slight change is made to tourism or business balance. You see, the economic balance is not based on conditions we created but on such a whales'conditions in the form of mackerel and tourism. Our other economic services are fishing roads and energy. A water source that needs access to the resource and the energy industry that needs to sell itself cheap for industry. We simply live in the land of whale resistance. Although 19 times in stability, there is no explanation of how this policy strengthens these pillars and reaches the targeted steady state according to baseline values. Festan. This is, in my opinion, the best baseline in financial policy, and the explanation is this, a quote, with the permission of a president: Economic development also leads to a firm... No. Offering financial policy does not lead to firmness. On the other hand, applying financial policies does. I'm going to see it happen. Applying what people say has done nothing very well in Icelandic politics. Transparency is the last baseline, and it is, of course, the best baseline. But there is no explanation of how financialism meets this baseline point. The term is used three times, only to refer to the law on public finances that says it should be transparent. As you can see from this review, there is nothing behind the sentence: the Council confirms that this financial policy is consistent with the baselines and conditions set for... You see, it is not enough simply to say that you are acting by law; it must be shown how they are applied. Some may disagree, but they must explain why, not just say, " I disagree. ' The opinion of a financial body. While it is possible to discuss this, I am going to keep a thorough discussion on that subject until financial advice has introduced it to a financial committee. The opinion that needs attention may be reduced to a few things. The government's got some e.g. little time to contribute financial policies. On January 2, too, the Gaming Council also had little time to give reviews, just two weeks around Christmas and New Year's. I must commend financial resources for such short - term work. Perhaps certain ministers of this government can learn something from that method and what can be done in the two weeks around the celebrations. In fact, they worked on it during ten days of active activity. Good job. But saying that it is not unusual to give more than that. Well, it's a financial policy for the next five years, and financial advice is the professional reviewer of the World Congress. More and more thought should be given. During that brief period, five members of a financial body are considered to work. Those who know the law on public financial matters should remember that the members of a financial body are only three, but two defenders also work in full recognition. A financial body has called attention to this in a financial committee, that the number of stewards would normally be increasing to five, but if not for the short time that has been controlled by them for professional reasons. Only with regard to government financial policy. It speaks of investments. The government's investment averaged 2.9% of gross domestic product between 2010 and 2016. Its share is expected to be the same until 2020, so that investment will be kept in the economy. This is all the infrastructure now. Investment only follows the pace. If we are coming from a period where infrastructure and maintenance were minimal, as shown in the discussion and referred to as a reason for the need for infrastructure development, how can a cumulative need be met if only the general economy, which, in fact, requires an increase in structure? Tourists'growth has called for extensive construction and construction at resorts that we are not close to. If the need for maintenance and the need for construction of the infrastructure remains relatively unchanged compared to a larger economy, it is obvious that the public does not perform anything beyond what it has done in the year 2010-2016. On the other hand, if they are to be built up according to these goals, the private sector must accept it, the professional way. Although I do not comment on whether the structure is in the public or private sector, I comment that if the government thinks that it is going to go into the infrastructure during this period of financial policy, if this program is changed in the direction of increasing activity in public investments, it would be through its own financial policy. But that's not what they're doing. I will make comments to such plans because they violate baselines on firmness and stability, saying one thing, but doing another thing. The labour market. The increase in remuneration is predicted for the next five years. The success of the economic forecasts will result in a cumulative increase of 2018/2023 to more than 33%. The success will be similar to that of 37.6% and 38.5%, respectively. The increase in remuneration rates was more correct in all five years of the year 2000◯2016 than in predicting the increase in pay scale during the financial policy period, except for 2008◯2013 when the increase was only 32.4%. So you have to ask, Is it the policy of the government to repeat 2008-2013 in pay development, and right not to be at the bottom of the five-year period of pay development in this century? Way too little time to go over this. I'll pass on a few things. They may be included in the second talk. Building development and housing market. A brief reference to the development and problems of the younger generation is made. There is a possibility that during the financial age, something may be done about this, but it is simply said to be a solution. There has to be something to support this in a financial program, and there's not a long time for that. Based on the lack of facilities and the structure in progress, we will not be able to get beyond the supply problem that we are facing in the near future. It is now discussed about demographic changes, how much less are in opposition to the older people than they used to be. This is an act of complete failure in planning not to anticipate this trend. Not only has it occurred in countries around us but it should be predictable at relatively long years' notice, even decades. The trend is toward a constant population model in which people are not growing significantly as they were in the years before. All social systems need to be able to walk in a society where people are not growing because it is simply an inevitable fact that the earth is a limited resource, although only in size. If our system works on that kind of population model, they only work better if we grow up. That would just be a petition. There is also a brief discussion of technological development and a significant impact on the development of employment, labour market and standard of living. Without going into too much future studies, people can generally predict the wrong fields in which they live in power - producing fields, where forecasts always go out of linear growth. The effects of technological development will be evident in energy industry, agriculture, fishing, transportation, communication, just everywhere. Much sooner than people expect. The effects are not just similar to those of earlier years. The technological advances that we will face are simply the desalination of hydropower workers and a new agricultural revolution that completely alters how we shape the land. There won't be any need to sail on some huge boat around the world to catch fish. The effects not only become new, better, smaller, and more powerful tractors, they will not be needed for tractors. No need for water sources to blow or drown land. This will not happen gradually but much faster than we expect. If we do not prepare well, the labor pains will be tremendous. See, the big question is, Is the technological advances that are coming up next save us into the sustainable society that is necessary and probably, in time or not? It is fundamental that we not only sit back and wait for sustainable solutions but work systematically to get to the right place sooner or later. In fact, Iceland has signed the Paris Summit's meeting on emissions, and prime minister has also issued a declaration of noncarbonization in the year 2040. Although that is a good price, my questions about exactly what is not answered have been made. Does this mean that the portion of emissions aimed at contracting compared to the Paris Convention will become neutral or all man - made emissions? For figures, you see, the part of emissions below the Paris Convention is only about a quarter of the human emissions of the Icelanders. Most countless fractions of emissions are due to deforestation of swamps, e.g. for agriculture and road repairs. This emissions are not part of the amount to be reduced according to the Paris Convention. Nor would it be possible to remove the carbon share of emissions that the agreement assumes. It would be an inexpensive accounting trick to double-tee that kind of thing. It's just carbon-grabing itself, that moor. It would be like digging a ditch just to shovel it back into him and claiming to have made a profit. The question is, what is at the top? When she says: "Neal - free Iceland in the year 2040? " I've asked the highest. Environment Minister, but he doesn't know anything. If he does not know, how can a plan be established that reaches its goal? Money policy is promoted by the government. It is a statement of what the government will do in the next five years. This arrangement is very good and should be respected the purpose of laws that make the government work according to the baseline, financial, and financial standards set out there. But I'd like to point out a little cultural problem that I think will damage the process. The target and debt ratio are considered lower limits. I have a feeling that it's cultural for us not to consider them the upper limit, too. That everyone jumps on the opportunity to bring more change and more interest. And so on. However, it violates baseline stability and firmness, the temptation to fan the fire to get more money to do more, to become more popular, the temptation to contribute to more and more, and then violate the goals of the law and the purpose of promoting financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u64	Mr. President. We will discuss financial policies that are extremely important to the government to achieve economic goals and political goals, just as neither one can be left out. A course of action toward a particular goal is essential for action and action to become selective and practical when it comes to government finances. Of course, it is absolutely important that policy management is careful and taken into account the needs of state dwellers as soon as they work in the interests of future society. As with other policy measures, economicism covers the years 20181⁄2022 as a promise of action in various fields as well as a series of government activities that limit or direct them to a specific direction. In terms of a decrease in total government debt to 30% of gross domestic product, it is maintained in the official budget. But this goal is now expected to reach by the end of 2020. These policies show that there is a compromise between their views that speed up as indicated by the subsidies of public debt and the spending of manual funds to build up the interiors of society. There is no need to overlook the fact that in recent years representatives of the left movement have repeatedly criticized the sad state of various important structures, pointing to the need to initiate their restoration and rebuilding. How glad we are, then, that the financial policy we deal with is exactly an indication of a change of direction! It is only to continue to be paid from loans and their head position reduced so that the overall debt of GDP, as I said earlier, is declared in the financial policy to an irregular income that may fall into force during the period of time, will, of course, be used to reduce debt and is expected that the magnitude of the crisis may be up to about 140 billion in the period. However, I would like to agree with the criticism of financial advisers when it comes to the separating of irregular revenues, i.e. money, property, and so on. I think we on the budget should call for a further diagnosis. As important as building up society rather than paying off debt, a society that suffers from ill health and inadequacy will gradually be unable to fulfill its commitments. In this regard, economicism involves a change of direction. Economicism involves a national approach. We will not forget that the financial strategy it follows in the spring months means further implementation of the aims of what we are considering. There was a further dissociation of income targets and the fees of public bodies and their development. Government funds are now doing well, and it's a good way to strengthen the interiors of society, both those who are slain and measured and those who are inaccessible and those who are important to health, social, and educational services. The first steps in this direction have already been taken in the first few weeks after the transition, and more will follow. Only a few years have passed since government funds laws went into effect. There has been some experience, however, of this development and the development of financial policy and its follow-up. The change in the formation of the law was decisive and has been a major test of government and legislation, as was shown in the case of the Supreme Court. Financial and economic ministers. As the laws on government finance are further maintained, the engineering process and the usefulness of the methodology become more apparent. However, financial advisers have considered the financial policies we deal with as regards specific weaknesses on the basis of the forecast and ways to correct them, such as drawing up stage photos according to different criteria. And under this I think it is clear that the benefits of the budget for government and the general public will be increased if there are more possibilities than one, of course, because the benefits of the government and the general public are expected to be different. I also agree with the financial tip that there is a need to redesign the models that the Sentencing Committee and the Haustabine Service support when predicting the likely development of public funds, since these devices were not designed for this role in the mind and we need to adapt them and change our role. I'm also going because it was only discussed and the highest. A minister did so too, agreeing with the financial Council on the economic rhythms and the corrected prime, i.e. It is not only possible to look at the source equation but also to correct it for the impact of the fluctuation. I think there's something we're supposed to do, so we have a clearer picture, or we've got a clearer influence on the current approach and is at any given time. I don't think it's ever that way that we have too much good evidence. The situation and outlook in the Icelandic economy are quite excellent in many ways today, but surely there is much to be avoided, and experience tells us that there is a rapid transformation in our small, economic system. General labour market agreements are about to land. It will also draw conclusions on the pressures of public pay. In this way, the State will be a party to the agreement made. There have been promises to reduce income taxes on the lower tax level in relation to the collective agreements and to reduce insurance costs. Of course, it is important that the State contributes to the success of collective agreements and to the benefit of those who, of course, have the least available in the labour market. In terms of the insurance bill, I have to mention that part of it has played a very important role in the breeding ordinary treasure. There is no benefit for employees to go so hard that the insurance fee will make the funding of the stocksorlofs get upset. On the contrary, it is urgent that a trust fund be strong and can meet its purpose. That is exactly what we've been trying to do to increase the amount of money we earn and the length of our maternity. Because of the ambiguous nature of the economy, caution must be exercised when making decisions on tax declines, as when tax returns or when paying taxes. Care must be taken to ensure that a tax reduction is subject to the criteria that neither spontaneously result from inflation nor insuficiency. In this regard, I'm going to go back to the idea of a bedside fee, i.e. About the tax business, and its arrangements for the countryside. It is urgent to strengthen the income of the rural society. I think the balance of your bed is one way to do that. By doing so, they gain income, where tourism is high, which can enable them to build up their infrastructure and deal with tasks in that field. This is something that we need in my opinion of and should work on and that has been spoken by the government groups. In Icelandic economy, significant economic growth is still predicted, even though it may not be the case with one another as a result of its greatest growth. In such situations and when it is planned to increase investment, careful planning and selection of tasks is important. I would point out that in many parts of the country, such economic expansion does not result in the threat of a century's deforestation, despite the development of public projects. This can, for example, happen. We refer to means of transportation, such as roads, bridges, or ports. Governments need to remember in this context that while our community is a unit, there are different circumstances that lie down. Surely, then, we must assume that growing public investments will be organized. depending on their local effects. It is to add at the end, a respectable president, that the economic development of the past few years, as predicts, or even more, form an application for public projects and structure that I certainly feel is a need for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u65	A respectable president. Hv. A senator came into the infrastructure, but as I went over to my case earlier, it is aimed for the government's investment rate to be the same as in 2010◯2016. It is during those years that nothing enormously was done in the infrastructure, not for money. I wondered how the present government is going to develop into an internal structure during this period of economic policy, with the same percentage of public investments as it did in 2010-2016. Then the hospital now being built almost out - of - date, due to the number of people, etc., when it ends or nears the end of its construction period. The education system, there's a natural amount of material to take care of. Even though there was a purchase of time in high school to increase because of a decrease in high school, the pressure on the university system is countered. Transport, there's a lot to do because of growing pressure and a lot of tourists. With this same government investment rate, I don't understand the evidence in financial policy that there will be some kind of infrastructure. Maybe stay gone and do a little better here and there. I feel like I need perspective and emphasis. Is the school system undergoing infrastructure? How much is transport going on? This is what I've criticized about financeism before. It does not indicate what we are about to do next in a financial program, although it would be just clues rather than precise numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm going to agree that there's some evidence of investment that's not clear. I talked about it to the latest financial policy, and in the past, I think I should feel that it should be my goal that financial policy also followed an investment plan so that we could see it. I believe it's our future mouse because it's just right and the criticism that has come along even though the transparency has improved, as I said earlier. Some of the previous financial considerations are being addressed, but they need to be done better. We need to make this even clearer. Of course, we know the need, whether in the school system or not. A senator came in on or on hospitals, transportation, or whatever it is. I think we can invest some of it in everything. So, of course, there is maintenance. It's an investment. We must not forget that. These are not all new investors as well as fixing, renewing, and restoring the existing things. But like a dog. A senator says that we do not have an overview of it directly. We get some of this when we have a transportation program. Then we'll see the share of new investments and maintenance. But that's probably the only thing we can see, unless we have some kind of investment plan. That's one of the things we need to aim for and fix when the next financial policy is submitted, then the document will be submitted at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u67	A respectable president. The financial agenda must be a plan for the development of possessions, which does not contain. At any rate, we may be greatly helped by the founding financial account. I talked about it earlier that we know that there's an overall need for investment. It was reviewed at a seminar several months ago, before elections, as to what would be the cumulative need for investment in various sectors. That would be at least can be used for the signs observed there. There were certain categories, A and B, etc., that the policy is to be set up in this period above or to reduce the cumulative need for investment in this direction or about this rate, so, something like it. I feel like there's some kind of lost opportunity there. But it is a question of whether we can get more ideas and speculations on this in view of the greater part of economic policy as we take this into consideration on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u68	Mr. President. I agree with the senator on this matter. Since we are now considering the founding economy and getting all of this into us, perhaps these policies will take on the form required by the law. Of course, it won't be right back in the first year, if you try to do this in a single leap, no doubt there will be some bumps on it, and this happens in some step. It's true that it was a seminar, I remember the industrial organization had it, but I don't remember it. The need for more than hundreds of billions is well - known, if we are going to move all the way up to our modern, road system, or all our infrastructure. This, of course, comes out of the way when we discuss how we keep our possessions and take care of them. It is also revealed to some extent in the government covenants, in ideas about planned projects, and so on. But surely it is a major part of this new hospital, which, of course, should be built, i.e. We're building. That's one of many things. As I said before, we don't have an investment list in our hands... representing the greater share of the budget. It may be that we are thinking too much, we do not necessarily plan five years in advance exactly what measures we are going to end up in, as we are. Sadly, a senator knows, economic predictions, and other plans a little giggling into the future because we don't have enough models. Therefore, we try to be cautious and then follow at least the values that are valid under the direction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for her fine speech. What I cut off in a senator's case was, in fact, two things. I'd like to ask a few questions about some points in financial comments, but I'll start by discussing what was presented in the senator's talk. If I heard correctly, I would speak. A senator that, if necessary, the tax would be reduced. I'd like to pray. A senator to tell me more about the conditions involved. Is this a requirement to the labour market, a condition established by the government itself or some form of reference, or is it a condition that takes into consideration inflation pressure, or something like that? We know that tax reductions can have the motivation to exert inflation. Is there any tax rise in the world to offset potential inflation? The other's to the left. A senator said that if economic growth declines, there are parishion tools in public structure. Likely, the senator expects to reduce the economic growth of a person's ability to perform official projects precisely because of reduced inflation pressure or its impact. Then I'd like to know if it would be necessary to look to the extent to finance the public projects or structure that would then be involved. Is it assumed that despite the potential reduction in economic growth, the income of the state's funds will not decrease? Making money continues to grow, as it was in the past few years?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. As I was saying, the reduction in income tax is not conditional on our part. Above all, we need to guard our stability and guard against the values on which financialism rests. We need to be careful that this will not automatically result in in inflation or an increase in economic expansion or something like that. That must always be our primary objective. I think that there's repercussions for the benefit, like government funds, when we start talking about insured by the government into the collective agreement. I've asked ourselves if we had one, for example. Rather increase a person's discount or something. How much is it gonna cost to lower the income tax level? Can money be placed into a person's discount or something? I feel like there's a lot of ways we can look at it. But it's not a definite thing. However, it is an idea presented in a government covenant. I think the labour market also has to tell you whether this is the most suitable option for its clients, that the interests of the state's funds and the benefit of employees. That must be the most important thing when we enter agreements on the part of the State. We see that the economic growth is not likely to get a little delayed, predicting it. Then there is the time for the public to act, there is the opportunity for the parish. How they are financed, we have not yet talked about it, but we have not come to that position. Yet, there is something that we need to look into and be sure to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u71	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Yes, it is normal. A senator cannot give clear answers to these questions, since financialism is very uncertain. There are endless warnings on the course because of what is going on. The comments of a financial board, to models and other tools used to achieve this policy in print, and to produce it, of course, is not completely complete and there are many differences. When discussing economic growth and taxes, it is important that the interests of employees be guaranteed and that the interests of the state's funds be guaranteed. It is also very important that jobs that create jobs and that employees have jobs, that the State earns income, is not ensnared, or that it is under pressure. Instead, the way some members of the board have promised to take away the tax load from their business, including the work, should be reduced. by lowering insurance bills. Therefore, when it comes to paying taxes, you wonder, " Is it not to go into business to improve employment, employment drivers, because it is not always possible to do so? ' That's what we all should know. A lower tax burden on employment, whether it is a published or a small innovation company or other, may result in investing companies in further development in their sector, developing tools and tools, and bringing in more people. Therefore, we should not forget that this includes professional drivers. I like it. In fact, a senator has emphasized what is presented in financial policy, that it is very vague, and that it is based on a bit of gig, as it puts it so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u72	Mr. President. That's quite right, and I've even talked about it in this ponta, that policy is blurred. I'd like to say, though, as well as the models that the system was not prepared for this change, although it took years to write the law. It was just that way, despite everything. I've been speaking about setting up an organization like a national economy that makes real national forecasts and models. I think we need it, but I don't know if it's appropriate for such an institution to be in the Ministry of finance, like the highest level. Secretary of finance mentioned. You may need to strengthen that work even more. In fact, financial adviser points out that this can be beneficial. I also agree with what the senator says. In the left, we haven't talked about putting our professional life in any snare. We have, for example. Delegates that the resource costs can and should be reduced for the small resources. I think we all agree on that. But I have also spoken that many larger fishing companies can pay more to the State than they have. Then I don't necessarily aim at the top of the year two years ago, but I also think we need to make it more modern. It's not good to make a note of a year in advance. It's a promise to turn down the insurance bill. That's good business. On the other hand, I would like to see that the birthed ore's treasure has been filled. He has been financed in part by this price. We contribute to a longer birthport and increased payment on maternity plants, supporting young children and family. [[The president calls.]] I want to make sure of that. This is its share of income before the price is dropped.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u73	A respectable president. Here we will discuss financial plans for the next five years. As everybody remembers, and not long ago, we pushed through the council to the speed of light for 2018, the financial laws that I am a little sad about, because the woman here is here for a purpose. My ideal is to put people in first place in the country, and I don't care what subjects are coming on. Number one, two and three are the people of the country, the common people of the country. Yesterday I stood here talking about addiction problems. I spoke of the sad situation that attracts young people and those who have the difficult disease of addiction. What do we see in the 2018 budget? And how will it show itself in the government budget for the next five years what their will is to care for the poor in the country, our children's families, the desperate, the older citizens, and our addicts? The figure is 33 billion. Government funds management. V.E.G. The secretary of finance, who I miss not being here when we discuss this big case, came here earlier today when he proposed a proposal for a hearing on financial policy and said that there's a lot of interest here, there's a lot more good here, everyone should enjoy being there, and everyone should be able to participate in this good stuff. I don't know, Mr. President, how can you kind of look at this? Is this some kind of a joke? Is it because of the highest. The secretary of finance is not in touch with the public in the country, has he never been in this situation? How do we know in the world that there are repeated attempts to close our eyes or ignore the fact that there are tens of thousands of Icelanders struggling in all this goodness? In all this goodness, Mr. President, there is an endless cry for help and ask for help, us here, who are chosen here, these 63 agents of the Lawgiver, who have and are obliged to think first and last for the benefit of all the people of the country, and not just some. I miss the fact that our people aren't put first in the first place. Can you imagine, of this 33 billion bucks? leftover - would the national vessel go right next to us if we were to take e.g. 3%, and help with those who are dealing with the problem? This means no less than a 100% increase in the amount of money to the United States and its activities. We'd just double our productions at the FEW. Although we said we had 32 billion left and not 33 billion left behind, did it put the national vessel on its side? Did it make the difference? I say no. In any case, it's our people who are always supposed to be top priority, the people when it comes to sharing the funds from the government fund. The doubt should always be enjoyed. That is why I say that there are better things to do, but a good deal is worth much of what has been done in the seem to rule in many ways by the government. But is that just in word? I want to see it on a table before you can begin to row something and congratulate them. But I'll also be the first person to wish them happiness when they start standing by the big words, but instead, you'll see a covenant that is actually so open at both ends and so cold that you don't know what in the world he's saying except good promises and some declarations about something that may be so, possibly queer, will be put into it and hopefully it will be like this. What am I saying? I can't even understand myself more than the government contract. I want to see this will in action. I want to see some projects now. I want to see the people who really need help right away. I'm not going to say anything else in this highest. Pontu Allalis. I have no reason to use here all the time I'm given. All I want to do is continue to share what is the heart of the people and the heart of us who are here and now for the people of the country first and last. I believe those who do their secular work and who have done well, and those who are involved in becoming billionaires of the ocean's resources are simply able to take care of themselves. I don't have to stand here to help them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u74	A respectable president. We'll talk about financial policy until the next five years. You may say, " This is certainly the most enjoyable subject of the council,'which may reveal in the amount of flight on the council at the time. The minister of finance began the story. But this does not diminish its importance. This is the government's five - year financial policy, a foundation as a goal, we can say, the role of state funds in the economic policy for the next five years, and puts the box above the work that the government will take in the future. That is why it is one of the main concerns of my mind that when we look at this particular financial policy, it is of little value. She is put together in a very short period of time. It is quite clear that there is no assessment of her natural influence on the economy, and in fact, she makes it clear both in policy itself and in its review of national interest based on the financial policy of the previous government, and hence on the impact the government would have on the economy over the next five years. This is one of the key elements. Talk about financial policy, about what it is written, whether in the policy itself or the review of financial or other parties, is, so you say it in clean, very plain technical. To keep awake to the reading, you need to keep your mind focused. Once again, though, this does not diminish the importance of what is discussed. That's why it's good to remember why we're doing this. The entire budget of public finances has a very clear, simple purpose: that the state of government should shoulder its responsibilities in economic management, that it contributes to a higher level of stability in the economy, which for the common people simply means lower inflation and lower growth. It's not much more complicated than what all this technology is eventually about. There is a natural problem with such a course that no assessment of how it affects these factors. We know from the financial adviser's review that the maintenance of the financial budget is reduced despite financial management and that there is reason to resist the brakes in the circumstances presented here. We also know from the discussion of the budget of this government that the Navy considers the policy of a new government in these areas to be that it leads to higher growth, higher progress, higher economic instability. Therefore, it would be normal, and I hope that further analysis of the impact of policy into the economic environment is being made so that the Council can understand it, and especially the financial committee, in the discussion of policy issues in the coming days and weeks. I can see, though, that it was short of time for employees in the Ministry of finance to win this policy. The point is, How will the State shoulder their responsibility when it comes to economic government? How does the State contribute to the greater economic stability? It is the key challenge now that we look ahead and make it very clear in the financial debate. While we expect to slow the rate of growth, we should not forget that the last two, three years have always expected much less economic growth. Therefore, it is quite certain that the government policy in these circumstances must be very conservative until it is clear that there is a real slackness in the economy. That's the one we can't see yet. On the contrary, we all see the traditional overheating signs if anything is. We see private consumption rising significantly beyond economic growth and providing economic forecasts for the same trend. The economic forecasts of this financial policy also directly predict that pay will increase far beyond the economic tolerance or increase in production as an added inflation aim. And that economic forecast assumes that inflation will be in complete or beyond the inflation target of the time. It is also good to bear in mind that this economic forecast, such as a financial body, is, in fact, explained in its review, is based on our predictions, which have always been criticized for the same fact: They always predict the soft landing that will never come. The Icelandic economy has not been known for its smooth landings so far. On the contrary, we have been known for extreme fluctuations in both directions. We have economic growth that is usually far beyond economic growth in our neighboring countries when things are going well, and then there's a serious setback in the sails when we are persecuted, as we are so prone to do. On the other hand, when we stand at the height of the economy, the government's affairs must be very conservative. Of course, there is the traditional problem of temptation, that when money flows into a treasure, it is necessary to carry out all the activities that you desire. If so, it is very tempting to increase significantly, e.g. in the combination, as is being done now. In fact, in the past three years, there has been a slight increase in the financial wealth. Here we are repeating the economic failures of the past years that we have been warned repeatedly. We're adding a lot of expenses to heavy thawing, burning the fire. But when it comes to one of the core values of government finance, or government financial legislation, i.e. The self-sustaining of the state's budget is the very key. Can we live up to the arrangement we have promised when the economy and the financial resources of our Kingdom are slowed down? There comes a significant weakness in financialism and, indeed, in the first, the financial counsel points out; we need to adjust the pace of the budget. We need to understand where we are in the fluke - corrected supply of the Kingdom treasure, for it is, in particular, telling us which level of shared consumption we can live up to. We fully realized that during the last down cycle, the State Fund had to intervene in this service to the citizens of this country, for the government fund simply could not afford to live up to the promises made. In the period of the government, which was between 2007 and 2009, the pace of the economy was very high, and enough money flowed into the wealth. It's nice to review again. I remember having conversations with the highest. Secretary of finance about that in another profession. There's no one who makes more money on economic instability in the swing than the state fund. It literally rains into government funds back then. Especially when the labour market is out of control, as it has now been, and there are times when, as is undisputed, there is considerable excess growth. On the other hand, we apparently escaped a corner with it, but we now have a dangerous position. This means that the income of the state's funds is much stronger. Private consumption provides a wealth of money in taxpayers through. It is at the very point when we especially see that the economy is changing from exporting interest rate to the private consumption charge of growth as the wealth of government funds becomes the strongest. In view of what I said earlier that we rarely end up soft and in comparison with each other when it comes to economic growth in both the growth and the contractions, on average, we need to make good use of the strong income years to make money for them. And we're still too in debt. I'm most concerned about that, and we discussed it in a detailed discussion of budgets, that the payment of debt is not being fully stressed when there's so much money in the economy. It is inconceivable that the state's budget will still go into the next down cycle with the total rate of 70 to 80 billion interest per year. There are money that we want at that point, not interest costs, but new ones. That is why I have been so worried that when this financial policy is being proclaimed to relax the terms of government spending at the same time that all warnings arise that the brakes have to be kept, not to put too much emphasis on living for more than a year. Of course, there is well - known and general political solidarity in this hall that it is extremely important to be built up after prolonged starvation. There's no dispute. There's a tremendous amount of pressure in the construction of transport systems, increasing funding for maintenance, building up of health systems, building up social systems. All of this is an enormous task, but we first have the ability to live up to the long - term promise we make. This, of course, is the self-sustainingness of the state's budget without having to resort to significant tax increases when the economy meets. Once again: It is important that the State help in the economy by showing restraint but not having to push the economy down by raising taxes to earn money. That is the point when we discuss financial policies. This is where they mark the line. Set the course to the next five years about how we're going to let the government's budget work into this economy. Even though she's become one of the longest in Iceland history, we don't even provide for her end. It is not necessary for the state's funds to relax, or rather, as stated in the review of a financial board, to step on the fuel supply at this point when all the evidence points out that the brakes are needed. There I think we need to handle the budget board on finance policy, in the second discussion about it, and hopefully between discussions, get a more full picture. That's what I'm calling at the highest. Secretary of finance. On the one hand, an attempt will be made to identify the economic rhythm-corrected status of our government right now and on the other hand, the effect of financial policy on the economic outlooks. That we have some perspective on what it means in an economic context to relax the clone now. We've talked about common sense when it comes to paying taxes. I well understand the reasoning of those critics who say: "When on earth can we really reduce our taxes if this is not to be done up - to - date for economic reasons? And government funds cannot afford to turn them down. That is why I understand that advocates of the tax doctors whom I consider to be among are critical of such a course of restoration, e.g. In this regard it was that we must simply pay off our debts first before we can make room for a tax cut. It is the fundamental change in attitude, the change in the policy that the public financial law should involve, but we have not been able to reach the full extent yet, i.e. That there's a trust fund. That we're totally turning the government's affairs on account of how they've been so far. That they will rather hold back the economy in a great swing and are in a position to stimulate it in a strong downturn. Sadly, most people have been on the other side of the road throughout history. We've been generating the economy through the state's budget when it's been a long time, and we've had to cut the sails a lot, and we've had no leeway, including a lot of space. to public action, in times of need. I repeat again and again that I think there is good reason to look to a financial body and, in fact, have to say that the budgeting of a financial body at this financial policy is not good. She'd even be considered a drop score. But it must be looked at both on the part and on the other hand, in the context that we are also trying to learn in this process. We need to take advantage of the financial policy for the purpose it is intended, to ensure that the government will support the economy at any given time, help us keep the inflation and keep going.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u75	A respectable president. I want to make a few remarks. For one thing, economic policy is not based on the national forecasting of previous financial policy but on a new national interest project since November at the development of this financial policy. Then, in general, I feel that I am careful here during the discussion that people look forward to this policy and the warnings found in the financial body and that these are all going on in a much worse way. It is dangerous and wise to be cautious about making long - term plans, but the situation is that it is quite bright ahead. It is not predicted that we are losing our inflation, so the end of this economic growth is not predicted. In the years that follow, full - time employment and commerce are being predicted. You might want to take this discussion in the larger context, only consider what you can do to help with your basic work in the country in order to maintain the situation and to consider measures that would involve it rather than just focus on financial matters in the large context of the objects or minor tax changes. Rather, you might consider some measures that may support further economic progress in the economy. Then I want to keep to the level of what has been done, since there was a mention of the debt of the state funds, how extraordinary an effort has been made by reducing the debt rate over a few years from more than 90% down to the one heading to 30%. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u76	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance the counter. First, these boring technical issues. I was referring, not to the lack of the latest national interest in financial programmes, but to the fact that the nations based on this plan assess the impact of last financial policy in further evaluation of economic development, not new financial policy. That's what I meant. Perhaps a technical point, but in that sense, it is only very useful for us to know how the change in financial policy will affect the national economy, if any. I expect they're somebody. When it comes to economy in general, it's absolutely right. The secretary of finance says that there are other factors, of course. The Arms are mainly three. It's the money policy, but it can be extremely low if the other two, i.e. The labour market and the government's affairs, they don't work with it. It's been our core problem. We have hit inflation targets for nearly two decades that the work market has not worked specifically after, not being in line with when the salary and price have been negotiated. That's the fact of that case. When comparing ourselves with neighboring countries, e.g. The North countries are quite obvious, and neither have they done so. They've been rather swinging than swinging. It is a key if we are going to succeed in taking control of what is on our part, which is the government's case. And, of course, the workforce needs to be done in that regard too. I'm not minimizing the results that have been made in debt, it's been very much. Not to be overlooked, however, is the tendency for these proportions to decrease greatly as national production grows to the same extent. Of course, such trends can be reversed too. [[The president calls.]] What I'm trying to point out is that exactly because our economy is so swinging, we have to use these good years in both the debt of state and the same as paying off pension commitments, which are quite serious. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u77	A respectable president. Only forward on debt and credit ratios. Yes, we've paid up very much, very direct government debts, reduced the currency reserve by exorbitant debt, it was a pleasure to have these circumstances created. But we have also paid off other debts. We have made significant changes in stability, but at the same time, we have been paying about 200 billion in recent years into pensional debt. But I agree with what. Senator. We're supposed to keep moving. And then I'd like to bring up the matter, that the very reason we're going to get serious in this area is to get our possessions out. It must be the closest thing to selling financial businesses that the state has a holding part in hundreds of billions and arrangements for payment on debt. We could get even further down with our debt ratios.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u78	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more than that. With regard to many of the good things that have been done and in fact, he and a former financial minister who came from our fine category, that they were just doing quite well in this role, showing good financial support, and focusing on subsidies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u79	...before them?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u80	[[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Even the highest. A president who preceded them and wrestled with all the drier farming, which can be commended in this regard too. But I agree with the highest. Secretary of finance that this is exactly the time to free the property of the state funds, especially in the financial system, I don't think that there's a lot of money in the financial system, and pay off debt. I'm afraid, however, that the government is somewhat at odds there, i.e. I have not heard much of the conviction of the left greener for selling or the private resources of a state company in that context. And it seems that the advance party had a policy in buying more banks than selling.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask the senator about working-steaking. The Senator considered the effect that a financial policy like what we see here might have on the longer future. In fact, the Senator is new to the government, where financialism was also introduced. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: What is the key difference between the then proposed financial policy and the existing one? Isn't it a year since she was submitted, when we were visiting her here at the council? At least she's not very old. There is a new national interest project since November. In view of the five - year - old financial program 2017 simply as this one may have been trying to predict some of the right things. It is interesting to see how long the answers have become in this discourse. Then I would like to ask if the senator is concerned that financialism has a positive or negative effect on the conversations we see ahead of the job market. If that's true. A senator reads out of this, that there is considerable or some danger of filing and that the inflation triggers, etc., do we need to worry that there is any effect on our dress interview? Does this mean that the Kingdom will bring the key to how the talks will develop in the months that follow?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. First, it is true, since the last government's financial policy was submitted and taken care of at the council. In itself, there has been no fundamental change. High - strength, high - quality growth is still being expected, and there is a demand that the budget be maintained. The main difference between this financial policy and the first is that maintenance, particularly the State, is expected to reduce the proportion of waste. I think that's exactly 0.33/4.4%, i.e. Instead of being 1.5% leftovers, it is 1.2% in the current year, if I remember correctly, and then down to 0.8% by the end of the period, which was to be 1.1 or 1.2% in previous financial policy. So, obviously, expenses are being donated. It is also sobering to consider that as a result of the financial policy, government spending remains similar to the proportion of land production for the remainder of this filing season. Historically, it has always been a fluctuating role in terms of government spending that the proportion of the state's budget has been rather reduced simply because the fluctuations are so extreme. State spending would have to be greatly increased, and in a very unsurpassed way, if it were to follow that swing. That's why I'm worried. As far as the work market is concerned and a question is concerned. I think that part of the work market problem, which is long - term - in fact, we can say that we live in a bit of inflatable society, although it is pointed out that we have lived here in economic stability for the past four years - that inflation is largely low because of our success. It's been quite enough taking in domestic inflation at this time. In my mind, part of the reason that labor movement never seems to be ready to negotiate on the basis of its practical demands in the spirit of its coal in the North countries, is that it does not believe in economic stability. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] She does not believe in low inflation, and she is just about to become the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u83	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. If the labour market responds to a financial program that is concerned about being held in the opinion that the government has - it is not only this financial policy but also the declarations of the government and the Constitution that uses very strong words about the proposed structure, investment in infrastructure, etc. - you wonder if financial policy will reflect the reality we're facing in the months ahead, i.e. the talks you're about to talk about. Let us not forget that, at the same time, not only are employees in the labour market, but the companies who have to be involved and negotiate with the employees. There people have not lived up to the promise of a reduction in insurance. On the contrary, certain taxes that land on companies such as carbon taxes and something else are actually increasing. [[The president calls.]] Does that not affect you?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u84	Mr. President. You're right next door. A senator says that if an individual's beliefs, such as the conduct of a person, it is a dangerous situation. the aspects of the government's affairs of the economy are not sufficient. I'm not going to say anything about being sorry in the conclusion of that. I think that while there was a degree of irresponsibility in these matters, there is a very rich will for all agents to try to get a better hold of it. On the part of the government, it is being tried to correct this by the laws on public finances and by improving policy. The labour market has worked hard to change its practices. However, there is no agreement with the current practice. That's a lot of concern. I think there's good reason to have a lot of caution about what could happen if the labour market gets off track again, because it's quite clear that we escaped for a corner. [[The president calls.]] We grew much stronger in exports through tourism than we did after our last bargains. I don't think we can ever expect to be as lucky again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u85	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Þorsteinn is where Víglundsson recommends a warning, and that's a good thing. It is always a matter of listening to such things. If I understand why. He is rightly concerned that there is a large, reckless increase in expenses, under any pressured conditions in the economy. But it doesn't matter to them, what. A senator, as part of the government in GDP, is it not growing? The minister of finance often resorts to this body when it comes to him from that direction. Does it not second, then, that the expansion is, in large measure, an earmarked emergency investment that has, unfortunately, meant that humans have become starving? Is not paying into this account a major national interest? Isn't that all going to be taken into account? And not to be kept in mind when considering this situation, the expansion of verses, and the use of financial resources, that Iceland is not in some balanced situation in this regard? We have a great debt to pay on starving investments in the interiors that we will have to someday and somehow begin to reach an opportunity to pay in. It doesn't make a third difference, too, if it is. A senator would like to introduce us, that we are likely well beyond the height of the economy and of moderate or moderate economic growth ahead? A lot of what I think is wrong. A senator might actually have applied two years ago when we saw that we were heading to the top, as later appeared, e.g. The grand growth of 2016, where we get to Chinese hills in terms of economic growth. Is not in this light of reason to press at least to some extent the traditional anastosia, which covers the balance economy in which the infrastructure has been cared for and no such debt is unrewarded? [[The president calls.]] Has a what? A senator might be overly concerned in this light?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u86	Mr. President. Thank you very much. President and w. A senator resists. I know that the president is used to an outdoor, and as a result, when you walk onto a mountain, you never know when it's at the top until a tilt runs away again. Of course, that's the problem in the economy too. We never know when the peak is reached until we feel severe coldness or contractions. That's why I've always had this philosophy that it's better to be pessimistic than to hope for the best, rather than to be optimistic and not prepare for the setbacks when they come. In this context, it's just as true and true as it is said about the importance of investments that have been starving for a long time. We are very burned by the lack of financial access or space to care for infrastructure when it would have put us in the best position, which was in the last down cycle. The treasure was simply not equipped to cope with that investment. On the other hand, we are also trying to get the right course so that we do not continue in such a cycle. We'll get more money for this. The economic benefits of investment will be even greater at such times than when we are on the open in the excitement and everything will be on the highest level. In some way, we need to know how to find our way in order to care for the most necessary investments, while paying enough fast down our debts and commitments in order to have financial space for building up when it gets cold. Both of us use the money better than that, not when it needs a little ice, but a proper role in the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u87	Mr. President. I'm going back to the point where I like it. A senator gives a warning. There's always to pay attention to such things, and the last of the men I'm not going to do it, so often I was in that situation, e.g. in the years before the crash, and tried to warn against things that were little to listen to. Second, I find it important that this point, whatever it is now called the Council, which has expressed its opinion on this proposal, be taken into consideration, but it really needs to be done more than it suggests, to evaluate the interest of the investments that the state intends to make. It is also a lack of appreciation for profit or for the negative profit of not doing so. You need to look at both sides of that matter. In my opinion, it's dangerously expensive for Iceland not to start building up the infrastructure better. I'd like to have time to ask you why. A senator for the gimmick application of taxes. Often, people speak as if they were to use the tax rate up and down to counteract the fluency. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a misunderstanding. I think it's best to keep the tax rate unchanged and let the automatic rhythms work through it. That is when income gains up and down, and it is the swing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u88	Mr. President. I'd like to start with the end of the line at what? President and senator, with the tax system. I agree with that, of course, it is best that we have a very stable and relatively slow tax system. It will be more predictable, it can be expended on simplifying it and making it more beneficial and, again, more predictable for both companies and the public. Even if there is room, it is possible to subsidize to a tax level. But this is a course shift, I think, to a message party. A senator and president of the council would be positive if we saw better reconciliation develop over a relative lower and constant tax rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u89	I have nothing...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u90	- I thought I knew. But it is true of the national benefit, I think we also need to do a little better when it comes to important transport programmes in evaluating the priorities of such projects, both their exploitability, their risk assessment and the need for an assignment. [[The president calls.]] I think we're far too little of a sign like that. in the shape of transport programmes that real and clear priorities are for the projects being listed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u91	President. I'd like to come to two things. First, because we're talking about stability and caution and so forth, I'm a little surprised that there's no distinction between foreign and domestic debt when it comes to the State's debt with caution. There is a fundamental difference between such debts. Foreign debt is much more dangerous in the crisis. There's something else I'd like to find out about the stability fund. In a way, you miss a little right now that he doesn't exist, but then he'd have to exist in a foreign coin, that I think. If we could have been in this tremendous ruse collected into that foreign currency stability fund and held back only by the rise of the gangs, the result would not be as severe as it may be when it finally comes to it, because we may now be walking on the ability of exporting roads and we are hurting the local highways that are competitive from abroad, but in real life, we'll only put our money ahead. In this way, a stability fund could make my sense of function and because of me, although I don't know how to implement it, could be involved in such a stability package.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u92	A respectable president. I now love to talk here today, I wonder before what I would have done by myself. We're dealing with financial policy, and I don't expect to be expected, Madam President, to use my entire speech lesson in this document because it's certainly going to go to the budget board and be discussed there. However, in our discussion today, there have been many concerns about policy, and especially the warnings of financial advice. Many members of the council here have experience in working in this world, what I'm supposed to say, outside the world outside the Senate hall, where there is a bargain, were trying to make plans for business and business in the long term. Of course, financialism is just one part of this tributary, if you don't mind me saying it; financialism, financial planning, and then the budget. The course may set and actually set the big lines, the setting that men try to figure out, and predict until the next year. Therefore, there is little frustration that financial advises are presented previously, i.e. The models have been warned not to be good enough, etc. It is also possible to agree with financial advisers that it would, of course, be more desirable to have a better view of the government's political policies for this policy. Although there is some political problem, it is certainly his work and how to schedule things that are important when we read the policy and then plan together, of course. When I read financial tips and the policy itself seems to be unattainable, I wondered, " What effect is it in 2018, with collective agreements and other factors, that may have on these plans, the policy being there? ' There is, however, something that I think must matter how at least the end of this program could stand. That's exactly what happened at the highest. Secretary of finance today, of course, that we must not forget to focus on national infrastructure, such as the highest level. The secretary of finance expressed it; we need to consider whether we can be more comfortable with our basic work habits. And then you start to wonder if it's just what the government's policy is missing, i.e. how she sees basic work. Clearly, taxes on the seaside are going to increase dramatically now, taxing is on it, apart from the heavy industry and the gas that releases carbon. There is no promise to cut down on insurance, which is of utmost importance, especially for smaller companies. So there is a little bit of a need for this ideal government to be watched by professional life, for, of course, we must have a strong job if we are to have a strong government fund and to deal well with the employees of our country. It is also clear that the policy allows for some of the investments that the government has been preaching, but it may not seem to be all of it. There's a lot of warning in policy. A financial adviser points out that it is important to have a better picture and a better model, a better model to make these plans more accurate. It is only annoying that is not really one - handed in doing so. V.E.G. Of course, the secretary of finance said that the Ministry is trying to develop this methodology, but I wondered, and maybe it's just very simple, to get models that have worked elsewhere to use this type of model. We may not necessarily have to find it all back up again, feel it from scratch if there is, I don't know anything about it. However, financial advice will introduce the very self - determination of the models involved in the process of working on. I'm sorry, but I didn't get to know it before speaking in a speech chair as to which departments of business banks have, for example. Just recently sending aside what major workers in the employment market have been wondering about just this period. If that's how everyone works more and less with the same ideas, the same model, we'll have to, of course, what I'm supposed to say, become more vulnerable to unexpected events. Of course, this has to be corrected by any available means. I mentioned earlier today the concerns of a country partner and especially Reykjavíkurburg. I think they're concerned about things in many parts of the country. A financial minister pointed out that there was a good walk in the community, but this does not change the importance of the reality that it is taking into the strategy as this or policy. In commentaries from a financial board, the budget is also discussed because of irregular revenues. I don't remember the highest. A secretary of finance or some other government has tried to determine what these irregular incomes are in order to reduce debt, whether it is a single business or money that comes from a bank or something like that, or whether these are incomes that come from government companies, stock sales, or whatever it is that comes into it. A financial agency calls for more detailed information, and of course we do too. Of course, what matters in all of this is that the budget, which will later be based on this financial policy, is then in line with policy, reflecting the budget also made. It is important that all of this talk with one voice so that we do not have misleading messages. Madam President. National Economic Organization was mentioned today, or the importance of the Congress's having better opportunities to evaluate the economic situation and to accept it whole - souled. It is very important that we look for ways to make the council more independent in all its practices, especially when we discuss such important policy schemes such as this financial policy, financial programmes as well. The Parliament or members of Parliament, for example, have a very limited chance or, I'll let myself do the sliding, ◯resources surely to seek help or some kind of information, make independent research, research, something like that, it needs to be fixed. Some kind of strengthened bonds on the council, national interest or a stronger economy on the council, is something that would be important and well received, and I join those who have mentioned it today. We must not forget that the council plays a major role in the executiveship, and that is why it is so important that we realize what this document really means. It is certainly going to the budget and to a financial committee has at one time been able to cross the fence, call for comments, and something more desirable, but it would be preferable if a special strip of the council might be sought for an independent check. Madam President. I'm not gonna keep this any further on the case, I've had an excellent count today. There's been a lot in the matter, and I look forward to seeing what comes from the work of the budget committee and looking forward to a future. Which I think will be as useful as what has been presented today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u93	A respectable president. I didn't get to any issues in the opening talk, so I'm just gonna slide over that point. The financial convention says, with the permission of a president: ▪ The U.S.A. shows that there has not always been a financial growth in pay raises in this country. Speaking of this, it would be very good to have a little number with it. When did the level of grappation not go hand in hand with raises? Are we struggling with similar external circumstances? According to Economics figures, the level of pay fell in 2008-2010, otherwise there has always been an ever - increasing source of money in this century. However, this is particularly interesting with regard to what has been said earlier on salary development, which says the pay sheet, about the increase in pay number. You see, the pay sheet has always increased during this period, although the level of money paid has dropped since 2008-2010. It's just a question of whether to come first, how to do this. If we cut back on our salary, we will have no idea where we're going. But if the power of money is lowered, is the pay card to turn back or what else? At least it's an interesting statement that's out of the question. Based on the way this has wandered back and forth in this century, I don't think it's necessary to be true, although it can be true, it needs to be explained further. It also speaks of the effectiveness of public activity and the effectiveness of financial policies as being discussed in the effectiveness of public spending, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ All expenses need to be reassessed regularly. I called attention to a problem in the financial discussion that is related just to paying back expenses. Maybe it's just a result of the rapid payment of the budget that's been in my two years, but I've never had a good analysis of the budget of the budget bill, which points to some reassessment of expenses. One chapter of the last financial bill to discuss this in part was the one dealing with the requirements for living. In many cases, the device was explained in a way that was taken out of the budget range. And then there's clearly no review, we're just going to do everything as usual, we're not going to do anything and we're just gonna do less of a new thing. There was absolutely no reason to explain the maintenance measures in order to increase the cost of business management. And whatever the reason, I can agree on the need to reevaluate expenses regularly, I just don't see that the current or former government applied that rule. For example, there is a financial goal. In a current financial program, the percentage of graduated high school students is expected to increase to at least 60% in 2022. Elimination from studies should also be reduced to 20%, however, the relative time of learning students to be increased, with a 4-year average study period of 4.2 years and three-year high school studies with a mean study period of 3.2 years. The overall duration is certainly shorter, but the excess time increases from 5% to 6.67%. In other words, it is progressive to plan to increase the amount of time a student spends beyond the anticipated time for study. Markvist is expected to be less efficient, which is very interesting. Finally, only on gang development and foreign trade. The financial policy report warns against contractures or fluctuations, e.g. in travel service. Because of the high proportion of growth during the past few years driven by tourism, very large questions about economic growth must be asked if there is at the same time expected to be contractures or fluctuations in tourism. Here we need to consider whether the growth will continue or even collapse and how this will affect economic growth. At the same time, it would have to be taken into account that the average traveler spends less and less when walking with a weaker one. These two changes in the growth of tourists and consumption will have a major impact on the economic growth of the coming years if it is predicted in financial planning and now in policy. In this regard, there is an overwhelming lack of stratospheric analysis. We received some inaccuracies, words here, and were mentioned briefly at a panel meeting where, reminds me, there was a talk that about 125 thousand tourists were 1% in interest or something like that, an increase in it, something like that, but it's very uncomfortable to have this just oral. You're supposed to have a written analysis from the Ministry on this matter. I call it back for more information and look forward to discussing the subject on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u94	A respectable president. I recommend here for the bill to the final budget for 2016 that has been distributed on the deck. 49. The bill is confirmed by the 2016 state bill and is submitted in accordance with the law of No. 88/1997, of the state's income, and of the regulations I'm temporary in law No. 123/2015, public financial matters. The production of the number elements of the bill complies with the 2016 budget and the results of the state account in the same year and is the same as the final budget for the previous year. The bill uses the same work protocol as it used to calculate financial change due to state income aberrations and a provision of documents at the end of the year. According to the 45 st. The budget must be paid in the final budget for financial payment beyond the current budgets and any unused documents not transferred from year to year. The bill shall also state the ruined loans of the past year. At the same time, the bill shall provide a special file for stored sources and for the members who have overstepped the current budget. Thirty-seventh. By the end of the account year, the law is authorized to hold a ruined budget, and in a similar way, to subsidize the previous year's external fees from the budgeting of the year. The contents of the bill are largely balanced on the way to Article 1. and disintegration 1, it is requested that funds be adjusted in accordance with the state-of-the-art policy of the year's budget. In this case there is an increase or decrease in the amount of money paid by institutions and projects funded by these types of revenues, depending on whether the income may be greater or less than expected in budgets and budgets. Two. and disintegration 2 is a recommendation for subsidies at the end of the year. It is, in fact, there. to discuss projects with which expenses depend on laws other than financial laws, such as social security, pension commitments, and interest costs. The SmPC 1 package contains an overview of budget positions at the end of 2016 that are expected to be transferred to 2017. There are ends of the year other than those suggested to be cut down by the end of the year at 2k. The bill. Total financial resources back in 2016 were 854.8 billion. But the cost according to government accounts was 868.4 billion. This year's financial status was therefore negative at 13.6 billion, representing about 1.6% of the total budget of the year. As always, there are several irregular teams that are a target in terms of dissociation of account tools from budgets. First of all, there are 27 billion dollars. extra payment on the pension debt, pension, due to the payable Pension of Pension bonds in a federal account over the amount of budgeted and funds required. Second, 21.7 billion dollars. the external expenditure of the budget due to the demolition of property and stocks, largely due to loss of the bank during the year. Third, 7.9 billion bucks. reimbursement of budgets for the financial fee of the state's budget, mainly due to the different management of government accounts and financial contributions from Iceland Bank of holdings at the bank, which went to the state fund to make up for stability contributions. Fourth, 5.8 billion. leftover permission to help for unforeseen expenses, such as due to remuneration beyond the premium of budgets and natural disasters. The three first occurrences include conservative updates not anticipated from the 2016 budget, where they are being completed at the close of the state bill about six months later. So I'm going to go down to the bill's sides. In 1st. The bill, on the basis of further fragmentation 1, provides proposals for change in budgets for 2016 due to the variation of market income markets and other business agencies from budgets and budgets. It is suggested that budgets be increased by 1,251 million. K. According to this plan, funding projects with markets of government income. For more details, it is requested by the Council to take care of these revenues according to what was established according to a financial account or who evaluated the financial needs of tasks funded by these revenues. As a general rule, budgeting accounts increase, but less money than budgeted income would have been found to be less than budget-based. This criteria is not valid, however, because there are no relevant changes in financial resources due to sectoral abnormalities where income and expenses are not directly linked, such as in pension insurance. The same is true if financial expenditures have been determined on projects regardless of the estimated revenues of marketd income stocks, such as road income contributions. Two. By the end of 2016, the bill, as measured by the further dissociation of 2. The main objective of this is to cut down the budget where expenses depend on laws other than financial laws or are contracted and to be controlled only by changes. The same is true of terms where expenses depend on economic, system, or accounting factors rather than on financial management of some administrative organisations. It is also related to the loss of remaining permissions in general and other regular activities beyond 10% of the total budget of the projects unless specific cause is considered otherwise. A financial status will also drop if an assignment is completed. As with any preparation of the bill to the final budget, this bill has been reviewed by all financiers and translocation proposals and declines, taking into account the facts in these guidelines. It is estimated that at the base of the network, 33.5 billion will be dropped. However, the rates above our authority are down to 16.5 billion dollars on payment base. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Most of this difference between management base and payment databases is due to a decline in costs over budgets, where expenses depend on tax-based expenditures without the equivalent pay from the state's funds being paid during the year, such as 27 billion dollars. external fees for the Pension bonds and the 21 billion dollars. implementation of the documented value of assets and stocks. The ensuing bill 1 then provides an overview of financial positions that are expected to be transferred to 2017. The clean increase of budgets in 2017 due to these measures is 19.9 billion, corresponding to 2.6% of budget 2017. The package 2 with the bill provides an overview of the base of the number. This overview shows the origin of all the budgets of 2016 for both total and individual financial resources. It is the transfer of budgets from the previous year, budgets under budgets and funds, transfers within the year, and changes in budgets due to the mismanagement of the state's income under this bill. Next, budgetary expenditures and, at the end of the year, financial facilities are implemented, i.e. The difference between total capital and account-employed bills. A respectable president. I've considered the key elements of the bill here. It presents results to the General Assembly of Management Board and Part A State Funds under budgets in 2016. In this regard, we refer to reports in budgets and in terms of 2016 on key points in the progress of the budgets and the main interest in earnings and expenditures. So I don't think that there's any reason to list rather individual forces in the bill that have to be settled according to an existing government account and suggest that the case be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The Senate budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u95	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. A minister did well over the matter, which is a bill for the final financial law, so I'm no reason to be thorough about it, but he would like to say that it is a turning point where this is the last time we take this information for consideration in this form, i.e. The bill to the final budget. I've found it helpful over the years to consider this in the context of financial and financial contributions and government bills and to say, in effect, that the bill is having a conversation with them. At the same time, it has a work ethic. The budget was over the years to make up groups of work that have a new bill in order to account for certain abnormalities, remunerations, and budgets at the highest level. A minister went well over, at least the major anomalies. Instead, it can be said or thought that by means of a new law, there will be a more effective monitoring of the budget. The principle for handling annual budgets has been to bring both the existing permissions and the external fees to the next year, i.e. legal rights are going to rise if an institution is left over from year to year but falls in the event of a tilt and has developed through the years since 1992. Then the main idea was to encourage council management, so if an institution has enough money at the end of the year, it will benefit from it next year. Thus, a respectable president, may be said, has been taken out of the drive to make sure that the budget is used for the New Year's Eve. Similarly, the next year the head of the organisations must take action to deliver their expenses. Of course, there are some exceptions from this practice. Are the reasons why they are listed in the bill on page 18. 63 and the highest. Minister came on, but in particular there are legal and economic aspects, such as social security and unemployment insurance. I'd like to point out that there are two documents of the bill. I have often found that in many ways they are clearer than the bill itself, and they are drawn up budgets that are not available elsewhere, and they provide an overview of all the remaining permissions and excess costs that are in this bill to 2017; however, the overall budget of 2016 and the end point of the year is explained. That is what we will consider on page 19. 64. I'm not going to, more dignified President, to extend the discussion, but the case has been referred to. The legal committee and the Committee will discuss the situation as it has been and will be used to make the stitches of individual teams, major anomalies, waste permissions, overreaching, transfers between years and deportations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-23-15.u96	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis proposal for the root interest in the entire annual budget and the individual Member States of Period A. The implementation of fiscal financial accounts will result in significant changes in the format and content of the balance of the total state funds and the individual Member States in Part A. Changes are suggested in the coming years according to the implementation plan and that the first state account to meet the demands of the international government accounts will be due in 2019. The format of stockcounts is based on modification methods in accordance with Article 52 of Directive. it's a government law. These changes can be essentially divided into three groups, i.e. New teams on the property and debt gates, altered assessments, and altered self-finishment. The Congress proposal follows a paper that I'm going to allow myself to refer to. However, we are here on the move to implement and perform some changes that follow a recent government law. With the dramatic change presented here, we can better evaluate who is really missing because of the various types of investments that are compared to new investments and see if we are walking on the foundation at any given time or if we are investing beyond the need to write. This has certain connections to the discussion that has been very major in the Icelandic political debate over recent years and perhaps, for example, that we might have been able to invest more in the infrastructure, while mapping of the value of the infrastructure, the stock prices, and the normal evasion of time, could have provided a better indication of what the real situation in this regard has been. The reason we start the change over a period of years is because this is an enormous task, including some. it is important to note that almost every frontal group in every institution in the state and to evaluate their worth, their road systems, and other firm investments will be taken along at the time of the gathering. This is a big step, along with others we are on the program for this assembly. In this regard, I give special consideration to the degree of my income, which will occur in the near future but is also related to changes that result from the laws on public finances. I suggest that the proposal be referred to the legal committee and a subsequent discussion after the end.
