ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u1	Borist has a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 362, about contaminating organic matter in the soil released in the Bolunda, from the Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u2	Mr. President. We can debate the most unlikely cases, but I think we can join one another. September 25th. was presented a bill for reimbursement to society's public interest due to mobilization. Unfortunately, the bill has failed to be measured. But behind it, most members of the council are found to be members of the mob, the United Nations, the Left Green, Anarchy, and the Independence Party. The objective is to support and contribute to the development of Community organisations to the greater good, but the bill suggests that a special system of reimbursement should be adopted as a merit tax for mobilization, although it is an disproportionate method for rural development. I think this is a matter that we should face when it is finally possible to recommend, but the 1st shipman is Jón Gunnarsson, being able to achieve a good solidarity. It is also in the spirit of the public health issues we want to honor here, to support our sports society, but also to other public welfare organizations, such as the rescue forces that work on a vast amount of work that all of us are allowed to enjoy directly or indirectly. I challenge members of Congress, and I hope that when this matter comes to pass, we will have a chance to unite in the process as soon as possible, so we will send out the message that we appreciate the self - sacrificing spirit that is being done by the rescue teams, through sports partners, and other members for the public good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u3	Mr. President. There was news yesterday that President Donald Trump did not believe in the results of a U.S. government report on climate change, everything in order to take on more power and the special resources that surround him throughout the world. The rise of narrow vision, of special interest, of protective and insulation and plutonium has not left the world unmoved, much less Iceland. A supposed problem has been created, causing a solution, the facts to question, and an enemy to be found. Then there are some simple solutions that make a gap and put us in the position at/them, not together. In this regard, most of us are familiar with examples in history. It's an old story as well as a new one. We can see what is happening in many parts of Europe, and the most intimate of all is likely in Britain, where very powerful political powers escaped the popes of the British independent Party, UKIP, and perhaps even within their own ranks by the conservatives. However, there are also gang tanks in many parts of Europe that can be found. In the European Union, to the end, the European Union sees as the main basis for achieving power. We must bear in mind that open markets, freedom to consumers, people, and businesses, open society is the best way for such elements to be ignored by the public. We must support free markets, freedom, peace, and so forth, so that such forces do not reach them. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson has referred to it, including To this day, we Icelanders must not fall into the pit of retreating from such portists, and we must not be threatened. large and high interests, such as the EEA Convention, by giving in to such forces that we see in many of the community today within certain categories, within part of the governments. There's a bad message coming from the board. If the government has anything to do with the fear of coping with international commitments associated with, including the U.S. The EEA Treaty will underline that we will continue to support every strong and good case from the government, and we will support including. to the third energy package because it's for consumers, it's for Icelandic society that it will, if it's to help the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u4	A respectable president. I can agree with what was presented in the case of the senator before me, especially with the sad fact that the president of the United States denies the importance of climate change and climate change. I agree that we're all supposed to unite in that fight and that we're entirely on the EEA deal. I think it's important that we maintain that contract. Still, I was going to use this time to discuss other matters. In the fall of the second time, I proposed a death relief arrangement, along with most members of the council. I'd appreciate the privilege of getting into this case soon, because as I say, I've recommended it before and the case has gone to committee. The resolution proposal simply goes on to assign a health minister to collect information on the situation in countries that we would like to compare with, both countries that allowed death to assist and countries that have not permitted it, but have taken a considerable interest in that matter. At the same time, the Parliament's decision is to assign a minister to make a survey of their health - care providers to consider their dying care; on the other hand, whether or not the health care professionals are in favor of it in very specific cases and if health care professionals are prepared to arrange for it. The talk on death support has been significant in the community during the past few years. There have been good conferences and seminars, and a free group has been set up here on this issue. But I'd like to reiterate that this council-sounding proposal is not intended to make us question whether we are in favor of allowing the death aid or not, but merely calling out this information so that we can, in turn, take up a perplexing discussion about whether we feel normal to change the law in Iceland, as some countries have done around us. I hope so much that we will soon have an opportunity to discuss it in a calm and objective way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u5	V.E.G. President. There are now many interesting cases from members of the council. It can be said to involve most aspects of human society and, as it turns out, the approach is different, but in the end, everyone wants to improve society and strengthen its support. Environmental concerns are a natural factor and, in fact, the thread that should link all of us together, for we have the responsibility to bring our country into a better state than we did. There is a great deal of environmental importance in the government contract. It says that Iceland should be responsible for the production of healthy agrienvironmental products and the continued competitiveness of the marine future on international markets. A project has been appointed to shape food policy for Iceland, and that's fine. Among factors to be looked at in the shape of the policy is an improved access to healthy food. V.E.G. President. It is so important that food production in Iceland has remarkable ambitions and good things. Governments and rural areas can have a major impact on supply and consumption, with an estimated 150,000 people, students, government workers, residents in nursing homes and nursing homes, as well as public meals. It is not far from a daily program of about 100,000 people. In accordance with an ambitious climate program, it is normal to look to a carbon track, weigh the extent to which food is served, and so on. Is it necessary to import food that can be produced within a country with fewer carbon tracks? V.E.G. President. I'd like to take note of a proposal made by the senators of the House for a week on official eco-friendly purchases. This suggests that public shopping will always take into account the environmental and expensive care of the public market. In this way, countries and rural communities can add to the scales of eco-friendly food production and contribute to improving human health.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u6	Mr. President. November 11th. it was 100 years since the end of World War I. TRUST has made the matter clear. The war lasted four years, with nothing to do, a war that cost 16 million lives. Western Iceland fought in this war. Their sincere letters to loved ones describe the loss, fear, and loneliness they felt. Many of them experienced that they were fighting for Iceland. They would experience horrible bloodshed, great suffering in holes, poison gas, killing, and death. They were young boys, born in Iceland, in terrible conditions, where nothing awaited them but freezing death. With President's permission, I'm going to read from two letters: We shake and howl. I wake up to kill or be killed. Everywhere you find preparation for murder. Every human being is filthy and filthy. ▪ This war puts in man rage and cruelty and hatred, takes away human kindness, and kills all feelings of dignity. The beauty of nature is destroyed by black smoke, dust, and dirt everywhere. There's a disgusting fog in here. Most of the human metals are disgusting. War is repugnant. War is an unclean tragedy. This is the film that faced these young boys, and they wrote letters to their loved ones before they went to their death. It was common to believe that World War I would bring an end to all wars, that the war would serve as a warning example for the future. Actually, everything else became as we know it. Iceland is an armyless nation without weapons. This includes our greatest opportunity to become a trustworthy voice of peace in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u7	Mr. President. Today the government introduced plans to set up a new group for housing. Of course, it is a joy to see that the government, about a year after its reign, realized that there may be a problem. However, it is a bit Colombian to see that there are traditional members of this government. It's well up and there's an appointed team, and, of course, that group needs to consult with other groups who are active in housing at the moment and intended to make the most quick proposals. As it happens, the government leading up to that point had recently identified the problem, ordered of him a working group, submitted the results of that one and a half years ago in unprecedented consultation and cooperation with the rural communities, which are the leading partners in solving housing problems in both the capital area and the neighboring capital area. However, it cannot be seen that this government has done anything with these suggestions, although it has been noted several times that there may be excellent ideas until a solution to a lack of housing in the capital area. No, the government got out of the rotten year later and appointed a team. That certainly is well. However, I do not have much faith in that government task force, any more than any other member group. You see, there seems to be very little work to be accomplished by this blessed government. She will not be able to bring her case according to plan, only in the best way, and I fear that it will be the fate of the task force or of his proposal that few of them will ever be brought to action. In fact, I think that problem will have solved itself before the government finds out how best to solve it, that's a failure of the government. [[The president calls.]] It's a tent government, not a executive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u8	V.E.G. President. November 7th. I made a recommendation for a synopsis proposal for the establishment of the National Institute of Youth in Iceland on Lake Saturday. I am here to present correction to a report and a talk about the establishment of the National Institute of the Youth Society of Iceland on Lake Saturday. The proposal's report highlights the following: ▪ Now the Dala settlement has sold its assets to Lyla, and there is uncertainty about what is taking place. I left this sentence in my background on the subject. Now I've got a tip that it's just not right at all, i.e. that the Dala settlement sold its possessions to the pools. It is true that this has existed, but there has been disagreements about it and not caused by it. With this speech, I want to present the correction of this material. That's what you can't -- I can't reiterate -- it's just that Laugar's been sold in the Candy Valley. I also ask the partner and those with these assets apologize for this and hope that it has not caused any trouble or inconvenience that I have been wronged. So I'll share it here with you. ..and the Board of Education, to take into account the case, to correct the fact that it is part of a committee study. Um., it's in a paper showing that it's part of a committee study. However, I would like to reiterate here that the main ingredient of the synonym is the establishment of a people's university on Lake Saturday, and the utilisation of human activities there, with the arrival of Iceland's Youth Association, the compatibility of driving a young camp, and the subsequent events of other events, such as a summer camp. The willingness and determination of the movers has not changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u9	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about something that is rarely discussed in the conferences, but it's expensive protection. Studies in recent decades show that animals are conscious of many kinds, and they sense ill treatment. Happily, there has been a need for awareness during the past few years when it comes to animal protection, the consumption of animal products, and the working of volunteers, such as animals such as wild cats. In this case, there has been an increase in the requirements for improving equipment. It's fun to remember the media coverage of brown eggs. As consumers, we are expected to make clear a demand for adequate animal equipment, but if such is not available, we are not happy to direct our business elsewhere. However, in order to make that decision, we must have information about the situation of individual food producers. Therefore, monitoring is of vital importance. I am fully satisfied that the media more often show how farm animals, their treatment, and their slaughter are treated. Let's not hide reality and think the meat will come into existence in the Crown. Iceland is a major food manufacturer, but Iceland should also be at the tip of animal protection. We are to take a firm stand against any kind of cruelty against animals, such as bullate, unnecessary animal experiments, and meaningless sports of rare animals - but also take sides against heavy industry, which may even be classified as the meaningless fishing of one man in Iceland. Mr. President. Man is not the only animal on earth, and we have a moral obligation to consider other peoples of this planet. Finally, I'm going to allow myself to predict that my grandchildren will be puzzled at the meats of our time. Although the person standing here still eats his meat, it is clear that meat production is economic and environmentally expensive. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u10	A respectable president. I saw a headline in the Morning Press this morning that is incredibly prejudiced: the disease of God's people and the growth of micropigs. We're talking sick people. People with mental disorders are also desperate. The key point is what this article discusses. 200 people are in a nursing home that has been converted into social apartments. It says that these are those who have mental problems and who are desperate, as the article says. It has to be said that there is something seriously wrong with our medical system if this is the fact. To those taking care of the elderly, it is not preconceivable to say that they too should have knowledge to take care of those who have mental problems. It doesn't make sense. There's something wrong with our medical system, and this may be the next step in destroying a psychiatric team like the Matrix. This is not acceptable. So must we ask, if we are about to make this a sign: How is it that a 92 - year - old person is placed in the hospital? That's where she's supposed to eat the food, next to the toilet. We must ask you who are in this government: Where are you headed? Is this your course? Is that acceptable? [[The president calls.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u11	Mr. President. I feel that it is necessary to give brief attention to a talk. Víglundsson Not to argue with him or to try to answer in some way a threat that appeared in his speech about the government's actions in the area of housing. I prefer to approach the matter in such a way as to thank you. A senator for drawing attention to the approval of the government to set up a special group of campaigns, which are not only a government campaign but also a group of consultations with rural communities and the labour market on housing measures. I think it's important to watch that, in the process of collective agreements that are across the corner, housing matters are important. I understand the statement. Governments from this morning so that with this team of initiatives, people are ensuring consultation with the labour market partners and communities, key partners in this relationship, in order to achieve a common understanding and common policy in this important field in the process of bringing in the collective agreements. I don't think there's any reason to minimize that assignment. It is clear that the government is going to put power into this. It is assumed that this group will be delivered on January 20, after a month and a half, so if any. A senator or someone else. The members of Congress are concerned that a committee is being put to sleep or that the case seems as far away from the site as we can see from this task force and from the activities of this working group. I think this shows that the government is taking this issue seriously and is prepared to discuss both the labour market members and the rural communities on solutions and policy agendas in this area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u12	Mr. President. I'm an advocate of children's council for Porta's party. It's under UNICEF, the Children's Choice, and the Children's Subcommittee. We who accept this position promise to be guided by the United Nations Children's Covenant, which is a law in Iceland. In order to do so, and hence ensure that the rights of children are in first place, as the law says, I have made a way of searching and getting it perfectly clear who is responsible for the rights of children. The law is in place, and the authority is responsible for its execution. There are, however, a number of offenses about enforcing the law. But now Katrín has the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the highest. Prime Minister, initiate a project on data collection in order to do so better. In order for us at the council, who supervise the Commission, to do our work faithfully when it comes to child rights, we need to know what minister or other government is responsible for securing the introduction of children's rights as they appear in the law. That's where the shards are. So I asked ministers informally, and they pointed something at one another. I then asked the president of Iceland, because it is the President of Iceland who decides by his commission, with his signature, the initiative of the Prime Minister, which case is responsible for it. The president was sending me back a letter with an answer, and I thought it would be like this. Yes, yes, I'll sign this letter and so on, but it's where I wish to make a success of this job. But I'm not the one who has to answer that question. I've already spoken to the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, said that I would ask her a formal inquiry. That's what I'm going to do, so we're going to get it straight where the responsibility lies, so when kids like Filip, who are 1 year old and not by rights like other children because his parents don't have clearances, even if they have rights as students, they don't get off the system. There's a burglary. Who should ensure his rights while fixing things? And kids who get harassed in school? [[The president calls.]] Who will guarantee their rights? We need to make this work clear. The next step is to speak directly to the prime minister and to the minister. I also sent a letter to the Ministry of Justice and Department of Social Affairs. This is what we'll eventually get clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u13	V.E.G. President. A recent report by the Ari Skúlason Economics reports that the ratio department of Bank Bankers'Pension Fund has set up a trust fund and companies who work for business partners because of insufficient commitments. This parking department was founded at the earlier privatization of the Lands Bank, and this was done as soon as the pension bonds were lifted to make the bank privateized. This ratio department is not large. By the end of 2017, there were 999 pensioners, of whom 691 were women. The average age of a pensioner was 74 years, and a average wage just over 200,000 dollars. The money - making businessmates were 155, 128 of which were women. The average age of paid funds was 60 years, and the average monthly rights to pension was 297,000 dollars. In 2008, at the second privatization of banks, where a group of bank managers received 1.7% of the bank this morning from their local financial minister, an agreement was made with the then bankers, vice presidents, and their spouses on a carefree life night, while the parking department has not received 1.7% of the bank's judgment on machines, a just treatment that strikes this 999 people, 691 women. It may seem that the cost of privateization was laid down by this large pie treasurer, the most women who worked at the Old Lands Bank in the past. This is natural, and it must be expected that the secretary of finance, who has not yet done so because of answering the issues of this group, will do so, and the Lands Bank will negotiate with this group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u14	A respectable president. This morning, a young woman who lost her father in January visited me. ... becauseof alzheimers. We all know how serious and terrible that disease is. It is estimated that 603/4-40% of all patients with pre-dementia will receive alzheimer. I was reading an article written by Dr. Steinunn Þórðardóttir, who wrote in spring about the terrible situation that seems to be a lack of direction in which some 200 people are waiting. But I would like to mention what this young woman said to me this morning when she was talking about how she and her family had tried to step in and keep the father's function as long as possible by moving him to do various things. She spoke of how amazing it would be to see the spark pop into the other sad eyes of these individuals when they received even a sand paper and a chip to polish, color, paint, get pictures of their people, hold a picture, and write the names of their loved ones to her and things. She said that the disease slowed down a lot and made certain joys. And what can we do? What are we doing in an effort to keep our people active as long as possible and to try to make life more bearable to them? We also know that the alzheimer's disease is very serious, and the way is only one. I know this young woman has tried to contact the health minister and health minister, but she has no contact with anyone. So I say: It's in our hands, fellow councilmen and dear representatives of the people of the country. It is in our power to shape a clear course and to help us make our people, no matter what their age, no matter why they are sick, the life that may be the longest, because it is absolutely clear that the elderly will only grow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u15	Mr. President. I have at times discussed natural hazards in this sermon, talking about treasure and flood control, watchout eruptions, etc. It's enough to take the last two or three years. There are five main fire stations showing signs of agitation and quick build-up and landslides, and the risk of exposure increases with change in quality of life and warmth. The consumption of glaciers is increasing as a result of the same growth. As everybody knows, the P.S. Department is in charge of the Marshal's office. It is a question of whether the activities of all concerned and the preparation for the handling of serious events are the way it should be done. I would like to encourage the review and review of the entire situation, the review of monitoring funding, the completion and application procedures, and the development of any funds that should be available. Strengthen the expertise and resources of the Public Defense Department, and there may be a need to investigate, which is the most important point, whether to move the public security department, the Federal Defense of the State, under prime minister, and thus to promote all coordination in that sector. We also need to increase in what we call a paid central core of rescue forces. This is once so that before all of this, such projects are to be addressed, and experience shows that there is the best advice that is taken in time. To that end, time is by no means our special friend at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u16	A respectable president. Pirats, and especially Porta's council, are well aware of what it means when rules fail or rules do not have credibility. If people don't see a realistic way of handling differences or if the processes do not have credibility, people may try to settle differences with what I'm going to call social procedures. Such measures to influence the authority and authority of others by means of backways rather than by means of clear pathways quickly turn into mobbing behavior, and there is no rise above it, neither Pirantar nor anyone else. This is known not just because we've tried to invent the various wheels, some with good and others not so good, but because a reasonably large proportion of Porta were victims of childhood harassment and know the bullying of various kinds of people and understand the subject well. Thus, when Plerars appear, they have no problem accepting the shards. Therefore, we respond by discussing things through and finding solutions. Rules and careers don't work on their own. It is often needed to change culture, and that is not the case. ... but also through credible regulations and procedures followed rather than through the backways. But such processes, which are thought to settle differences, need to be trustworthy. Hence, the irony comes from words that were let down yesterday during the discussion of the chairmanship of the president. Then it was like a dog. Senator Pirata's comments on the management committee's case on driving costs, on harassment. Another suggested that Pirats need to learn how to follow rules. The irony is that there are Pirantars in the driving cost, which have been called from the beginning after the rules have been followed and only responsible for the overcoming conflict, that the process that is used to settle such differences is credible. It's not harassment, Mr. Honorable President. On the contrary, that is the solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u17	A respectable president. We'll talk about a fishing bill the second time this year. For the second time this year, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is suggesting that we reduce the profit it is intended to provide the nation for the use of its resources, and for the second time, the hearing of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and the administrative sector will require a relief from the small and mediumsized productions of the country. Mr. President. I don't remember much discussing the last election of the left movement's candidates, or, like a dog, offering to lighten the budget in the country. In 2013, a senator and director of a professional network, Lilja Magnúsdóttir Magny, said of a decline in fishing fees, with the permission of a president: I don't think there were many talkes, and I'd like to know which senator in this room has already spoken for. A senator who now serves as a member of the council is that one of the most urgent things that would be done during the summer council would be to reduce the penalty of deforestation in the country. Then I'd like to answer that senator. That's the way it is, some are said for elections and other action after elections, it's old history and new, but, of course, this priorities are completely different. I feel as a voter in this country that this must be the first priority of this blessed nation. The right government. In fact, the present government waited until the county election was over before presenting a special package for builders, feeling uncomfortable in publishing such plans for elections. What a reason. A senator's age may not seem to end in the head of a professional trade committee in the administration. Let's move a little closer in time and rip up what the president of a man did. Senator, commander. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said in RUS in front of the seat on October 11, 2017, over two weeks before the last total election, with permission of the president: ▪ All I think is that these charges have been dropped too much, and I think they can do better without threatening the interests of the development of the country. I mean, just watch the money that's been getting out of large manufacturing companies in the last few years up to hundreds of millions. Do we feel that this is normal? No, Mr. President, we don't think it's normal, but the annual accounts for the largest of the 20 seabed companies show that their owners could pay off 23 billion dollars. successful in 2017. Seven of the main owners of the three largest companies contributed a total of 5.9 billion in budget management during the year. There are almost 850 million each person in one year. However, the government does not feel that it is enough to reduce the spells on the output, directly designed the back door to the legislation so that lawyers can pay less money to society than is suggested. Not only so, but this back door has been identified in a number of news reviews on the job committee, but a majority of the committees still have no plans to close it. The review of the Contestant Commission says, on permission of the President: And for the sake of the bill that is now presented to be discussed by the Allied Work Board, the United Nations wants to remind them of the opinion that the Commission was directed to the Ministry of Professional and Development... It considered the impact of marine prices in vertical integrated productions that virtually no doubt are used in the standard prices of market prices that have generally proved to be much lower than market prices for fish markets. By doing this, the processing of the integrated factory may be more efficient in competition with fish production without the production that needs to be bought with a large portion of the raw materials for the production of fish markets. Similarly, non-fishing and market sales are less suitable for integrated productions, which aim to guide the control prices in internal trades between business factors. Similarly, the reference to the Heiðveig of María Einarsdóttir, by permission of a president, says: ▪ Therefore, it is strongly protested that agriculture should be taken out of stocks for hunting fees where it allows extra space to reduce prices to sailors in order to minimise stocks to calculate the cost of hunting costs and, as a result, gives currency more room to take the profit more seriously from the process. Then, with the permission of a president, Matthíasson Mahía, says: It has long been thought that the price of trading between linked parties and processing is such that it had a negative impact on their share of activity. In fact, enterprises owned by members of a relative are obliged to set the prices between them as if they were allowed by the tax laws... A so-called arm length rule should be used. However, tax law does not seem to be a clear command enough to keep prices in the business of related parties in production and processing so that stakeholders are satisfied with the implementation. ... If the bill is legalized in the same terms as this, the developers will develop an additional catalyst for the price of fish in the business trade at the lowest price. Such an operation would reduce both the cost of pay and the cost of the future! In his article in the nuclear field, Injundir H. ölálsson, Þorláksson on permission of a president: ▪ There is already an undercalculation of the price of intermediate prices, including On account of the trade of sailors to fish prices, but may also be available for tax reasons, etc. By allowing the wrong interaction to also affect hunting costs, this trigger becomes stronger than ever. Hence, not only taking away the fish farms and markets in fishing bills will not only rob the nation of the resource but also push down fish prices and thus reduce the share of sailors and independent outputs that depend on the sale of products to their rivals. President. From these statements it is obvious that taking fish production out of the calculations for fishing costs, as indicated by the majority, is opening wide on accounting effects to keep prices low between fishing and fishing. The result is not merely lower fishing costs but those bookworks can bite on sailors'wages, which are calculated from prices. Seamen'incomes are down, the income paid to growing even more than today, and society is affected by the common resources of the nation. It is also obvious to me, Mr. President, that Iceland's major industry, large financial owners and owners of the Icelandic industry, may provide financial management so that they pay the lowest possible price to the community, that they give as much profit as possible, and that they pay themselves for the most money, or as a matter of course. paritaprevir In 2014, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir spoke so well of the reduction in hunting fees, with permission of presidents: That's the way it is. It's been very easy, I think, over the years, to get profit from somewhere instead of paying normal taxes to society. The examples illustrate the point. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir is right here. I don't know how this bookbook itself, Mr. President, referred to, but we've seen it from the media, as Smoke Week Media showed in his discussion of the Panama Documents, that it knows how to do this bookbook dash. So I refer to my case in support of the following parties were found in Icelandic seas via The Smoke Week Media, in perfunctory form, by permission of the President: The Árni of Stefán Björnsson, investing and owner of the miniboat Rakkanes ehf., connects with Ocean Wealth Capital and Arctic Circle Invest in Tortola. Berglind Björk Jónsdóttir, owner of Seaships, is connected to Stenton Consulting in Torttila. Björgvin Kjartansson, owner of the fish action and export business of Hamrafells in Hafrafells, Hafnarfjörður, is connected to the Worldide Secret and Trading Consulting in Torttila. Ellert Vigfússon, owner and executive of the fish export business Icelandc Group and Sólvívík is connected to Elite Secret Panama Corporation. In Panama, Sorell Holding Development, Norys Capital and Becot Holding in Tortol, Godthaab in Nof ehf., a fish exporting company in the Western Islands, a stockholder in Arctic Circle Invest on Torstol through the Nfarphos ehf. Guðmundur Jónsson, owner of Seaships, connects with Champo Consulting Limited in Tortula. The Gunnlaugur Sævar Gunnlaugsson, investor and director of the Isthmus Society in the Western Islands are connected with Tantam Venture and Tatris Estate in Tortolu. Gunnlaugur Konráðsson, a wussman, relates to Maser Shipging and Arctic Circle Invest on Tortola. Jakob Valgeir Flosason, a developer of Jakob Valgeir in Bolungarvík, connects with Aragon Partners in Panama. Jón Guðmundsson, owner of Seaships, relates to Sarin Systems Ltd. in Tortula. Kristján Vilhelmsson, the stockholder, and the Samherja developer, connects the Hornblow Continental Corporation. In Tortolia. Laufey Sigurþórsdóttir, owner of Hafrafells'fish action and export business in Hafrafells, Hafrafnarfjörður, has ties to the Worldide Secret and Trading Consulting in Tortoli. Marinella R. Haraldsdóttir, owner of Seaships, connects to Sarin Systems in Tortula. Ragnheiður Jónsdóttir, owner of Seaships, connects to Aurora Continental Limited in Tortula. Sigurður Gísli Björnsson, owner of the fish exports company, Seamarks, is connected to Freezing Point Corporation. Theódór Guðbergsson, a fish - working and shipping dealer at Garði on Smokenesi, connects Huskon International, Panama, and Arctic Circle Invest, in Tortolu. Valborg Konráðsson, the wife of Gunnlaugur, relates to Maser Shipping in Tortolu. Vilhelmsson, investor and one founder of Samherja, had dealings with Cliffs Investments in Tortula. Örn Erlingsson, owner of the model companies Young ehf. And Sun Bank, owner of the Arctic Circle Corporation, Panama As you can see from this list, over the past few years, the fishing route has used tens of millions of dollars. These funds go directly to the owners' pockets and sometimes to the leftover pocket, where the money is sheltered by the Icelandic government. These are the values we should receive from our country's common resource. It's now all the resources. As a result, Pirantar and I protest these back doors, these practices we do not support that it will be done in its present form, for no consideration was made to the smaller part, to the public in the country or to anyone who matters, except perhaps in the treatment of this case. For this reason, I would like to review some of the words that are often read in this hall, and for good reason, the introduction from the current government's policy sheet on consultation and cooperation. It says, by permission of the President: All future plans need to be done in more detail and with improved communication. The cooperation between groups at the General Assembly must be intensified, strengthening the independence of the Parliament, its management, its professional support and status. ... Finally, the development, development, and financial communication need to be supported by rural communities in terms of infrastructure development and development. Unusual circumstances require change in employment, open management, transparency, and respect for tasks. It is the will of the classes that are now involved in government cooperation and the promotion of the Generals to a new approach to the work in support of the general public in the country, especially by giving intensive support to the General Assembly and increasing its effectiveness. Now it was so, Mr. President, that we got a presentation on this hunting bill at the highest level. On the day that the bill was presented to the press, on the day that the bill was submitted to the General Assembly. I don't remember it being the highest. A seafaring minister would have been willing to answer for any part of this bill's publication on what it would include, whether it would include an increase in fishing fee, a decrease in fishing fee, or what it was actually going to do in spite of the most beautiful promises. A minister of summer, trying to force the decline of hunting fees to consult here, that the matter would be won over the summer, and then, hopefully, here, in broad terms, if I recall correctly, into the council. The case was still not put in the government's consultation suit, a new instrument as the government, I know, has a work order to use to consult the public with all laws, with all the executives except some special reasons to do so. Despite calling for it, I can't remember having received any clear answers from the highest level. A sea emissary on why the consultations were not implemented in this case. It would have even been the case. The comments I read in the past may have appeared a little earlier, which might have caused a slight urge to close those back doors. But that is not the case. The review of a paper with the bill we're discussing today will show up, with the permission of a president: To a large extent, the bill's dress was shaped by the criticism previously found on the currency of current law and the balance of its price, including the about forethought, sensitivity to change the yield as well as to why the stock of a fishing company could be set at a tablepost instead of looking to the general marine outlets, i.e. fishing and processing. During the preparation of the bill, the viewpoints of the main employment stakes and marine earners were known and applied to the management and preparation of the bill. Then much consultation has taken place within the administration of the case. However, it was not time for an open discussion of the bill at the administrative level, but it is assumed that the World Trade Committee will implement such a process during the Conventional Treatment of the bill. The attitude of the main stakeholders was well - known, in the highest estimates. In preparation for the bill, a seafaring minister, however, further points out that this is a highly dangerous back door route and that is just an extremely dangerous impulse for integrating and evaporating funds from resource costs. This does not seem to have been taken into account, although it seems to me that it pointed to the water supply department at this rear in preparation for the case. But I can't see that these comments were considered to some extent. Because the exact consequences of this bill will be unclear, whether it will affect the salary the sailors receive, and thus also the reward that we receive from that fund, we do not know exactly what the consequences will have on the entire estate. Because the bill was worked without consultation and without cooperation with us at the council and we were shown that this is the right way to make peace with this basic work of the nation, we put in the smaller part of the motion of deliberation, i.e. The Party of the People, the Pirass, the Revolution and the United States, we feel that the matter is maligned and suggest that the fishing fees be accepted unchanged or in the form that allows us to revise more fully how this system of ours is going to function and secure them from the fact that the clearance point of such legislation must be agreed on which percentage of the people should take advantage of the resource because it is not done on the bill. The link that the nation owns the resource as well as other resources in the country is taken out of the bill. We don't have it in there anymore. We need to agree here whether we want to, as some have suggested, to be concluded by the bill, that the nation will receive about 15% of the industry's interest in money from the resource or of which we will go in the 2012 fishing budget, which was going to be about to be paid for the nation's price. 60% of the money we take from this resource. This is what we want to look at, and it needs to be a political debate. It is therefore not for this bill that the nation has an irreversible and unregistered claim to its resource and should not be established by any system that could undermine our obvious truth as belief in the new constitution but also for those who believe in natural justice. Finally, Mr. President, I just want to mention some comments. Senators of the EEA's Controversy, who are through our alternate proposals, Pirata, Refurbishment, and the Controversy. Between what they say they don't understand - nothing - in the suggestions they make in their own direction, they cry out that we are giving a revolution of the fishing system and that we want to herd billions of elderly ones and microsurgents and that we are giving up the sector. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter accused us of wanting to take 4 billion a year from microchip to decrep. Actually, I haven't heard of these programmes of the Management Board. I have not heard them anywhere else, nor do I find support in the government's financial program that it is now time to add 4 billion a year to the suit for the coming years. I would also be interested to have it confirmed if so because, of course, it would be good news.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u18	V.E.G. President. I can make you happy. A senator standing to put 4 billion in the process of microchip, including working in system changes because of a dollar's impairment. Hv. A senator often quoted me in this speech, and I want to thank you. A senator for that. From 2013 onward, my talk was quoted, where I criticized the system changes in the fishing costs that then appeared from a new government. We were in charge in 2009,2013, and they put us on hunting expenses. At that time, efforts were made to get the best of the hunting fees. We left greens have always spoken for righteous fishing fees and that they were left-overs. That was exactly the one who was trying to get the government tax manager into this variable. It is now that this can be done in ways that can be trusted that the fishing costs are off - limits. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator for the changes made by the Pirates, Reunion, and United States, whether or not they have any assessment of the effect they will have, by their auction market distribution or by what they want to call it, is not understandable, on different categories, small and medium-sized structures that are now fought in the banks, and would not tolerate their fishing fees rising to 12.5 billion with unchanged fishing fees. All these suggestions for making changes - what evaluation has been made? And if this auction route had gone, will it also be the wages of sailors? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] It has been observed that by means of an auction route in the Faeroe Islands, sailors'wages were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u19	Mr. President. I was in my speech perhaps primarily to criticize the fact that there is no real replacement connection when we directly promote this release connection, when we offer up the rear route to the point where people can reduce the share of the figure they are going to make because of this fishing fee. Hv. A senator once again speaks as if he did not understand the suggestion of the lesser part. We've been trying to explain why here. A senator and I are beginning to think that she just doesn't want to understand what these suggestions are all about. They don't go out on auction. Yes, we realize that there is. A senator is opposed to an offer, for we do not recommend it. We propose time to settle these contracts, like a pack of whales. In fact, a senator has spoken for himself. Of course, it is only natural that if we are dealing with our national resources, we do not have non-term expedient use rights on that resource. That's all we're suggesting. We're gonna cut it. Government officials to ensure that the nation owns its resources and that it is not being handed over indefinitely, to eternity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u20	Mr. President. Hv. The senator did not answer my question about their proposals, whether or not this reassignment meant something for small and medium-sized structures. What does this reassignment really mean? It was very much discussed in the Committee regarding these changes that the structure was taken out of the equation and that the government tax manager's office is assigned to monitor that it is not an abnormal cover-up in integrated marine management companies. The office made it clear that they have tools and access to the information of the enterprises to prevent this. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would not trust the words that appeared at the government tax manager's office to monitor this in the respective companies' tax settlements, where a special magazine is submitted to provide access to specific species and information from the Fishing Office on the value of each species's resources. Don't trust why. A member of these institutions, a Fish Room, the office of the state tax manager, and the price of prices to keep track of the price of seamen, to monitor these factors that need to be acceptable? As this bill in fact, it is based on the survival of fishing fees that can, when used, benecid, go up or down after the recovery of the article. Has a what? A senator did not study Deloitte's report showing a very high level of profits over the last two years? She showed that if it were the same fishing arrangements, it would be in 2020 2 billion and 12.5 in the next year. [[The president calls.]] It would be good to have a reaction. A senator with these facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u21	Mr. President. I was going to let myself read a word from the government manager's review, but he sent us two reviews, but I made the wrong review, so I can't do so well in these matters, not right away. But I recall, as I was reading this review today, that the office made a very clear decision that it would be very difficult to prevent this, especially when there was not much difference between parties. Suppose that if the five largest or 20 major designs were to come together and stand in bringing valuables from fishing and into the process together, they would find no variation. This has been pointed out as well. It's perfectly obvious. Regarding repeated questions. The senator's proposal for change, backup proposals, using proben, these classes, may I suggest that we dismiss this case because the government was so badly wrong and was not able to agree on it. These 56 seconds I have left, I'm going to use to read this adjustment because it hasn't been done until now, so I've noticed, I'll read as far as I can while my time remains, so it's obvious that I'm sorry. A senator has heard it. By permission of the President: ▪ At 1st Gr. The article goes on to say: A price is a payment for temporary use by the joint fishing resource of the people of the country. The price of fishing is to ensure the nation's share in the use of money at any given time. Fishing costs should be met by management and fish control costs and equal positions based on changes in job practices. 2. After 1st. A new article, as follows: Substitution Department. 2 mg. Section 8. track No. 116/2006, on the control of fish fish, should be made temporarily in the manner outlined in 2 mg. Starting on January 1, 2019, the Fish Room will divide the labor department into twenty equally and temporarily. The first item will apply for one year, one in two years, and then the other in two years. [[The president calls.]] From January 1, 2020, the annual reassignment to the 20th year shall be the 5% collection of each species then free and future. [[The president calls.]] There are two more subjects in this proposal. [[The president calls.]] I recommend that you do what you say. A senator read it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u22	The President will recommend that we do so. Senators are worthy of a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u23	Mr. President. It cannot be avoided that the idea or thought comes into your head, as you see the government's lawsuit and the majority of the employment committees in this case, that it's being put on the stage of a play. This is a great task that has been set up in which there is a great cry code about the very bad status of the seabed at this time requiring a government for quick action to save this article. The fact that this article is almost gone cannot help but be read out. And what is it? Yes, that the EBITDA article was published last year, 2017, as part of a great show of activity in all other sectors, in order to make this clear. Even in an investment industry, such as fishing soil, this was considered to be quite good. But what news do we have since this year? Fish road exports are increasing by 10 to 15 percent between years. The article is getting sick, oil prices are getting better, an excellent look in most of the article, no evidence that the article has anything special about business problems, as this has been a business venture with businesses and resources as never before. We have a tens of millions of business this year with resources. This does not reflect a business crisis. This does not reflect a profession that fears its prospects. Last year the rise of the fishing grounds was relaxed over a few weeks of seaman strike, which is the main explanation of the poor recovery of the article, which is now to be used as an excuse to reduce fishing costs. Let's get this straight. That's the play we have here. There is no underlying problem in this article, there will be no evidence to point out with any practical evidence, let alone when you look to that simple fact. The article has full faith in its survival, and this belief is reflected in an investment and high investment level in the article, both in fishing facilities and at the level of production, both production and fishing. It will be said as if this is a deliberate attempt to deceive the council. I don't see how we're getting into this conversation any other way. It is taking an opportunity to reduce the fishing costs that are mainly attributed to the marine strike. It was also the course of these governmental parties in spring when they were stopped with ideas similar to that of the once again, with virtually unchanged arrangements taken here in the fall, where the results had already been made in advance. About the right number had been found. 7 billion, and then there was a convenient way to calculate that size from the publication of this article in a reference year. [[Taken out on: right.]] This is government policy in this case. Then we hear another story over and over again, that we must be careful about the position of SMEs in this article. Yet, we have been told repeatedly in this hall and beyond that no data explain any amount of survival difference by size. We have an extremely well - run small and medium - sized company, such as we have a very well - fired large fishing business, and, of course, we have a less available company of any size, size, size, size, or size. The result is not determined by its size. We've been hearing all the time, and I haven't seen any data from a professional committee that the outcome is large, as the above repeatedly stated and said one major reason why there is so much urgency. It seems to you that maybe the government doesn't last long to spend more time on this, to spend time on cross-continent consultations, and therefore to attack on it by means of the subsystems here. At any rate, this work is in no way at any step with the government's own declaration of improved work management, of increased trust and respect for the General Assembly. The case did not appear to be the problem of consultation. No attempt was made to consult a smaller section of the council in preparing this case, and it is driven through a trade committee in total opposition and violence. And even though a few cases have been read out of a fine government contract, I intend to do so once again, for it is clear that the representatives of the government have not adopted this method of action. But it says, by permission of the president: All future plans need to be done in more detail and with improved communication. The cooperation between groups at the General Assembly must be intensified, strengthening the independence of the Parliament, its management, its professional support, and its position. There's a search for these devices in the case we're talking about here, that's pretty clear. In the end, of course, this issue is about stability for the industry itself and politics, which argues over the years and decades as to how the fishing system should be, does not create that stability, not when it is constantly hard to try to reach a parapolitic conclusion in the matter. [[Up front.]] In fact, it is admirable that the left greens were carried out by great larceny in 20091⁄2013 on the same issue but have now turned completely around, and it is quite wonderful to read their talks since 2013 when the national community's greater district of advance and independent groups began to fantasize over the previous work. It is not surprising, though. Senators of the left green often get confused in this discussion and think of things that are not our intent or that are our suggestions, although they have done quite a few times in support of their argument in this matter. Many of their talks in 2013 could well be delivered by a government opposition today, which, of course, reflects the underlying factors. For this matter, for fishing costs, for the future plans for the resource charge in fishing and, in fact, for other sectors, no result exists that is different from what we are trying to achieve in this hall an interpolitical solidarity. Unfortunately, it seems to be in this case that here the Independence Party governs a mission and the left greens have only become the ponytails of the Independence Party, only according to the rules and bans of the Independence Party on which methodology is not to be used, and which methodology cannot be used. [[Up front.]] Of course, it brings to mind that this has been repeated for nearly 20 years as to the importance of bringing in temporary fishing grounds. Such meditation was found in a report by the resource committee at one time. Such meditation has been found in most of the meeting committees established on the fishing budget in recent years, and such meditation was found in the form of a meeting area for an increase in prosperity set up in 2011 and 2012, if I recall correctly. In fact, there is only one category, as has been repeated in this discussion, which refuses to acknowledge the importance of this, the importance of temporary fishing privileges, and that is the Independence Party. This, of course, is in place not only on the fishing authority but on the resource itself, by preconceiving years and decades of establishing temporary fishing privileges, not permanent. It is all the memory of this matter that is trying to produce humility without any mention of an auction arrangements of any kind but that such a temporary fishing system rests on the payment that is being committed here, although we believe it is defective in many respects. But, no, this can't be discussed. It is quite extraordinary to look at us as a nation, despite all the discussions that have taken place in the past 15◯20 years, on our resource uses, and on resource expenditures, whether of marine resources, energy resources, oil resources, or the transport services in the past few years, have not yet been able to find some future means of managing all these sectors. Of course, it is highly unnatural for us to be building a business environment that actually requires no uniform exchange for resource use. Let us just take the seabed as an example of this. What really is the access to the resource? They're picking up free raw materials in the ocean. That's what the discussion is about. There is a request for a normal price for the substance. There are no products that are in a position to collect free raw materials. What this means is, when we talk about the resource's national property - the nation owns this raw stuff in the ocean - it's getting some fee for it. Such fear, such as the Independence Party, is the result of a marketing system that is a bit Colombian. This category, which claims to be a marketing party in so many ways, has no faith in markets when it comes to laying access to the resource, just the place you would have thought it was so cremating that this same profession is selling hunting clearances day in and day without any problem. It doesn't take a complicated law from the Council to handle it. The article does just fine by itself. That's exactly what we've been talking about in Strategic, that she'll only get to do the same when it comes to hunting costs. But it's the right category, the Independence Party, completely impossible methodology, unacceptable. Of course, we must reach some conclusion in a resource charge, not just in a fishing road. Of course, we also have to do this in the energy sector. We also need to control this when it comes to the practical use of nature in tourism. We are no longer able to paralyze on this matter, and it is long time for men to sit down in this hall in that cross - laity consultation and cooperation that must take place if we are to achieve any solution to this long - term development. I don't have a count on what it is that the Senate is messing with this payment now since 2010. This isn't a stable situation for the industry. In fact, it is being experimented with every year, and each year politicians in this hall sit down and say: Well, now we have found the only right way to lay down a resource charge for the article, only to get back down to this same problem a year later or when a new number of things have been formed in the Senate. I think it is long time for us to shoulder the responsibility we have to shoulder here to do this with a slightly more rational way of doing this than has been. Only with the methodology used here is the price of the bounty of the hunt itself. It is a very complex system, and there are many mistakes as to what has been pointed out in the reviews without any apparent intervention. This is a method of crafting something that is not used or worked in any other location in the rest of the article. We have found some brand - new system for the industry itself, and this points to a number of flaws. The obvious are the natural risks of a variety of accounting effects, of shifting costs between sectoral units, or of trying to cover costs in some way. This isn't nuclear science. It is obvious that when the article has its approach to laying down its expenses for the resource itself, we are offering this danger home. This has repeatedly been pointed, but they did not listen. This is not in harmony with the simple structure published by the Organization itself. Although we have few jobs as detailed and detailed as just about seabeds in the economic recovery analysis of the Habitat, this was not considered available here. We lower the financial cost of an enterprise by assuming that it is the same as the one who quits. I've just never heard of it in any industry that there's an essential relationship between, not a bit, and I don't understand why there is any more real science in the world. I think it's just nice to point out that, for example. that we have a plan of action when we plan for a firm such as Landsnet how to calculate its share, its contribution, and its prices. It should not be easy to deal with this in a similar way for the fishing work. Of course, what is of utmost importance is the use of prices on seamen's resources for years and decades criticized the project for underestimated by them. Here is a new incentive for such efforts to lower the value of catch, both at the expense of this country's taxpayers, or state funds, and, of course, the sailors themselves. You look at the play here, and the third argument, apart from the terrible results that will no longer be the case, then the crisis of payment is two years later. I think most companies that enjoy a good living, though they may have some time to pay their taxes, are quite capable of putting aside their expenses. No one's arguing about it. It's said it's so scary that, rather, more than a year's trip is being made to pay off a very good year, 2016. This good year was enjoyed by the fishing industry. She was bound to be able to set aside and use proben will enjoy a better year - long trip right now when it is due to pay on that account. It's not the big harm we've been trying to draw up all the time. I don't really know what to say when you look at the matter from this neighborhood. There is not a minimum attempt to promote non - political cooperation. There's one of the most fantastic makeup I've ever seen. I'm just going to say, it's being fooled by the presentation given here by the government and the more part of the employment committee because the claims presented, on the credible situation of this article, I can't find a place in numbers when you cross them and watch the exports of the article as they have been developing in recent months and loss. As we look at the increase in water prices from year to year, when we look at the decline in oil prices, it is clear that this is not a branch in a crisis. It is even more clear when we look at the article's own evaluations when it comes to its investments in this article. The following, of course, is this: During the past 15-520 years, the least has been a marvelous business on the land - a well - afforded one. The peer system, set up a few decades ago, has worked and produced exactly what was the main purpose of the change, to provide economic management in this article, that there would be a sustainable, powerful, profitable industry in the marine road. This is evident in all the points discussed in this article. Of course, it was accompanied by a sense of teamwork in this article that was also accompanied by a marvelous economy and large - scale increase. We see that the value of fishing has increased substantially, and the most clear examples are now tens of millions of trades around the cost of HB Granda and commercial sales in connection with its purchase, including At Alrvík, and a great deal of it at the Penitentiary. All of this underscores the tremendous value of hunting grounds in Iceland. It is long time for the nation to have a measure of natural value in them. It is obvious, as you see how the article itself, the industry fishing route, the price of its fishing grounds, is considered to be of great value in this. It was discarded here - no doubt, it is inaccurate, but it is not very easy to find accurate figures on trades with markets or on markets at any given time - that the market value of fishing warrants relative to the commercial activity of the HB Granda account would be 8,800,1,000 billion. Of course, it's an embezzlement of hunting warrants, but in the methodology the smaller part puts up for future prices on the hunting costs itself, it could be quite expected that such value would be laid on the basis of that value. It is worth these additional resources for the article itself. So she's been suing these fishing warrants for years and decades, so I don't understand what it is that marketism groups are so afraid of so much with the methodology set up here, and I don't understand what the government's going on in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. Basically, I disagreed with him, but a few things agree. The senator spoke of the weeping code of the greater part of the government. I'm probably wearing them crying shoes and singing bass. I'm an excellent bass singer. My concern has been made clear in speeches and literature, and since the senator was talking about his seeings the details of the fact that the project was in any sort of trouble in any group, I'd like to mention some small figures in that regard. Then I'm talking about types that aren't in the smallest category, not in the hook-up, but above. The Delotte report on the management of Western seas society in the East, Grindaví, the Western Islands, the Snæfellsnes, and the West has shown that income has declined from 2◯18% to EBITDA 16◯43%. The biggest was the contractions of the fatfishers'companions. That even tells us. That fishing companies in the bullfish have suffered severe contractions. Fishing came in 2017, 74% of the profit of fishing companies on Snæfellsnes and the West. In Grinsavík, they were less than 83% of profits. That's what it says. A senator may be that the situation is very serious, at least in this category, and also in the hook-up category, just so that the senator is informed about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u25	Thank you. The answer is made by a senator who can totally agree that he was a very fine bass in this chorus.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u26	I am.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u27	[[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But what I meant in my speech is that when you look at the exports of the seabed and the change from year to year, the reference year used here, reflecting the terrible status of this article, it is true that a few weeks of seaman strike has had a profound impact on the survival of sectors. There is no profession that would go through such a long strike without feeling very good at it in the outposts. However, it is not the State's job to resort to some sort of subsidies to the same industry because it went through a long - term work dispute. We do not do that with any other profession. It is not surprising in itself that the birthdays of 2017 reflect this bad situation. However, when we look at the remainder of this year, we see a marked improvement. The value has increased, the sum has fallen. For the most part, fishing, maybe especially in a bullfish, seems to be fine. I always think that the best assessment of the job situation is from one hour to the next, that it's her own assessment of her situation. Is the article prepared to invest in the position it is in? Yes, there is no doubt that this industry is investing virtually as never before this loss. Would people really be in debt to such big companies as HB Granda if they didn't have faith in the prospects for the future? No. I'll let me make a big deal about it. There would hardly be any sane man in such an investment at the same high rate as that of the article unless he had considerable faith in the underlying position of the article. And the buyers were not the only ones. At the same time, they were able to sell their portion at the Memorial Hall at a very good price, which once again reflected faith in even more participants in the very strong position of the industry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u28	V.E.G. President. Yes, I can totally agree that the strike puts in a special position in 2017. Yet, that is not all. The Senator also spoke of increased business in this counter, seeing the benefit of buying in these large companies. That's exactly what we're worried about talking about an SME, that this increase in business is because there's a recession in this article. The size of these large enterprises is such that they have a head and shoulders over all other categories of fishing. It's just like that, and I'm sure it's the Senator and his party's opinion that it's best to have just about four to six big companies that can pay enough for resources, and then we'll have the rest of us, you know, just working on a missing procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. Second and second man's answer. When it comes to expanding fishing, it is a matter that we have been dealing with ever since the beginning of the peristaltic system decades ago. It is true that the number of companies has decreased, they have grown, and that was directly its objective. We may need to start making up for ourselves if we want to do so. By recording the eating system at the time, we made the decision to say: "We are not going to run a fishing route as some sort of employment benefits. We're going to fire him as a handsome professional. It is far too big for us so that the government fund should be running for a baloney with the products of an enterprise when bad rivers come. The article must be able to stand on its own. It was the root of the thinking of the saying system, apart from the necessary reform of the fishing government itself. We need to discuss this matter. That's right. We could turn in our hunting fees, and it would continue compression in the article because it is the saying, not the fishing system, which has been established and has been done all the time since the start of the greeting system. That does not mean blaming the fishing fees for their compression. That compression was in the case of horse health, so to speak, long before the fishing fees came along and has kept it slow, if anything, if any, in the case of it. But there's also no one here talking about having a four, five - seabed business at the end of the day. We have seen that it is far closer to talking about the fact that these are certainly 40 to 50 percent of the largest companies on this scale, which have become very powerful fishing malls in the North, East, around the Snowstones, on the Southnes, and in the Western Islands. [[The president calls.]] It hasn't been that all of these have been collected in one place. On the contrary, strong fishing malls have been built up worldwide in this trend.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u30	Mr. President. It's already spent or used, let's say, a good deal of hours yesterday and today, and probably will continue to cover the fishing bill and the changes in the way it is calculated and put it on. In other words, much of the time has been spent dealing with the fishing system itself, not with the changes in the fishing costs. In fact, it seemed a little strange to me to hear it. A member of the Refiner, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, is standing here to defend and attend the current fishing system. It'd be so good, I'd think of him most, that nothing could be changed there. In my simple mind, I thought that there was some harmony here as well as in this article itself that the fishing system that we hope to say goodbye to this new bill would be a problem for many reasons, not mainly because of bad things. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson spoke of earlier, that it was being promptly addressed in the article, but it was simply being brought to a much better conclusion than it is today. Hv. A senator had little problem with being built on two or three - year - old reserves during the strain of the currency. In other words, if we take the fishing year to 2018, which is the worst year in the history of the marine road in Iceland for a decade, it would be no special problem to pay a fishing fee worth living in 2014, which was the best year in Icelandic fishing for a decade. That's the way it felt. A senator is no special flaw. I'm kind of out of understanding this presentation, which means that there's only two issues involved in this situation. First, there is a somewhat peculiar alliance between the United Nations, Pirata, the Forests, and Flocks of the people to dismiss the case. In other words, the defect in the current fishing system cannot be corrected without discussing something completely different along the way, such as the fishing system to which I come in later. Then the alliance will be. I find this surprising alliance of present - day conditions that cannot be fixed, although the defects are skyrocketing and grueling in the front of a person as in the whole article. No matter where the article goes, people agree on the defect as a dog. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson didn't do much, and he just thought it was nice and reason to be a special protection for the system. It only broke out of the alliance when it came to the parole hearing of the expiration and auction. Then the people's party fell out of the stocks. I'll tell them for his praise. Is this, then, that there is nothing more to it than a guard and to protect against a constant fishing system with all the faults that everyone agrees with, except now that we've built it up, or is the fishing system subheading itself? In other words, nothing should be fixed in a fishing system, it must remain unchanged, or we must overthrow the fishing system. Then let me only take into account what the bill of this hall has been wanting to talk about rather than of the bill itself, which is the fishing system. What demands do we have to make for the fishing system in Iceland? They are primarily three kinds of things in my mind, and this shows us the experience of past and present. First, the most important requirement for the use of the sea resources is sustainable, that we use the resources of the resources as reasonably as possible to the sustainable use of the best available knowledge and advice of the best possible specialists. That's what we do today, it brings us our current fishing system, and it gets us down to it. I think that the best men can see and as our knowledge extends to us, we are making the best use of the sea resources in terms of sustainability. Then the first requirement is met. Second, we insist that the best - and - most potential fishing and best - paying route to the community as a whole is the fishing industry. I believe that experience shows that we are doing the same thing. I think that the nations around us who share in fishing and around the world look to us envyingly looking after the exploits and productions in our fishing roads. It has been that way and has helped us through the great waves, and it has soared by other commercial events. She has survived that strength, in contrast with what was before. So the induction of the current fishing system in this respect, i.e. to improve interest and success in the job industry itself, has met all the expectations we made to that end. Then we come to the third point that can be said, and the discussion here may best show us that we have failed to make peace with this system, which is basically necessary in this article. No matter what we've been discussing in this regard, this has not been possible. There are a few things that have caused the confusion around this industry and the fishing system as well as anxiety and turmoil, and we have not been able to handle quite well enough. First, it is the development of this increased interest in the article and perhaps as a basis for it, perhaps the joint compression in this article was a prerequisite for the success we have achieved to a certain extent, but it is politically and socially sensitive. We've set a limit on what each company can have in a pan-European division and so forth, but it can be said that this has not worked completely because, in some ways, the same as with all systems leads to the development of a national company, share firm, and other human activities, has not fully returned enough, at least has not been enough to make peace in this regard. But this is not really to be held and held, for we know that the point of compression is in some respects the basis for this increased growth and increase in money that has been involved in this article. Then we arrived at a geographic compression that has also been debated. We've watched settlements lose as much as we can all say goodbye. Others have made a temporary profit, but there is always the danger that it will come and go on in a way that will not be put to the test. We tried to take action to resist this, which many called hanging anchors on the fishing grounds in the settlements. Others called it pouring syrup into this system, so it happened at least not automatically, without a lack of security clearance, resources, moving out of the settlement, from one community to another. We created a prerogative system or law into those laws. Three years ago, the Supreme Court issued a court sentence that showed that these premiums did not think so. It was the law of the law, and the stocks that went by, and not the source, and they found ways beyond it, so that the syrup or anchor was worthless. This is what we need to take into account at the council. Should we make the premium effective so that it works firmly or hangs an anchor of another kind or pours syrup into this system so that this does not come out permanently? That may be so. I just don't think that's out of the question. For this reason, however, this is always an intervention for the most profit - making trip. It's worth considering if we should do this. Also, we should take on some stricter measures against the vertical compression between enterprises, which, of course, are at full rate. These are very important points, but they are strictly not included in discussing this particular bill. Then we come to the third and final item, as I look at it, in the factor that turns to the reconciliation, i.e. The third leg under our fishing system. The first two requirements were fulfilled, in my opinion. Hv. paritaprevir Víglundsson spoke of the fact that there was a problem between us and the community that we had not established a uniform system to demand a fee for the use of our resources. I agree with him, but in his speech, I felt as if he were careful to forget that the only price paid for the use of resources in Iceland is to find in a fishing road, and that's the fishing fee that's being paid. Is it too high? Is it too low? Do you want us to figure that out differently than we're doing today? You can have all the opinions on this subject. I listened to a discussion in 2nd. The budget of the other day is that almost all people who were talking about it, especially those who were talking about it. The representatives of the Republic and the Continents and those who are on the motion, that what is maligned in the welfare system, our social system, our health, our education and everything - I want to say. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson of Wormund's defense that I may be more referring to the United States when I'm talking about it - that the answer was always through the whole of 2rd. financing that all of this could be done by demanding a higher price from the fishing road. It was just to get all the money everyone needs in Iceland into health systems, welfare systems, education systems - we know exactly where to take the money. The marine exit can only pay for this. Are you going to collect for this whole thing by hunting fees or some kind of payment for the use of the resource? I don't know what had been used by EBITDA in fishing for so many times during the 2nd. Money to pay for all creations. However, the bill is not about the fishing system. The bill is about how to collect fishing fees according to the system we live in today. This bill includes an answer to a wide range of criticisms that comes from the industry itself and an obvious logical criticism of impossibles and bad aspects of the system we live in today's world. I'm sorry I didn't understand why the fishing system should be fixed in the opinion of the groups involved in this two suggestions. Why on earth must this suggestion be dismissed, and preferably dismissed, it is the first option and second choice to overthrow the fishing system itself? In view of what the bill stands for, I feel that this attitude is fallacious.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u31	Mr. President. I have to admit, I wish you would. A senator would have responded to me, for I felt that this speech was a very long answer to my speech earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u32	I appreciate you so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u33	There are some things I would like to talk to you about. Hv. A senator said I thought the present arrangement was flawless. That was never my word. It is clear what my course, restoration, has been in these matters. We simply believe that these matters could be set in a much better way by means of a marketing plan for fishing and thus by the fishing costs. That would be the best real - life prize of the article's survival at any time. It is, in fact, the price-explanatory method of eco-efficiency used in a non-exploited, which I believe is closely related to in these materials. What I would be interested in, however, is to hear my opinion. For one thing, a senator may begin by saying: Why do the senator and his company fear such temporary fishing grounds? What evidence is there that the temporary fishing warrant for the 20 to 25 - year - old, the fishing system? Here, our best resource economist economist has repeatedly been suggested by this method, being guided by the making of more sense and firmness for the longer term sector itself. In itself, it is unmistakably that the present arrangement could easily be removed or transformed into this hall. There are few jobs that have such a good sense of oversight as this suggests, to have a warning on their fishing warrants until 20 years of age. [[The president calls.]] What is that? A senator fears so much in that arrangement?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u34	Mr. President. I now in itself have no particular fear that fishing warrants are in their nature temporary, as long as it is then in the long run that the commitment of time does not affect an investment in this article, that humans will not abandon the use of ships, cryohouses, fish processing lines, because the time to write them is too short, or that it is not really in winter setting up investing from that deadline or time tie. But I can't figure it out, and I kind of have to pray. A senator may use a fraction of the time he has in the second answer to explain this, since I'm sure I'm as pleased to ask him about the matter as he is to me: What is the benefit of the time tie if we did it up to 20? What is the benefit of it according to the system we have today? You see, it's not like we're dealing with something about who owns this resource. In 1st. The command to control fishing is taken out of all doubt that the resource itself is owned by the nation. Then I'd like to ask, first what. A senator has made quite a difference in this time tie: What is the benefit of time -- to 20 years of fishing, e.g. as he spoke, for what we have today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u35	Mr. President. I mean, I'm a man of what? At least there is no reason to fear that we are overthrowing the system by means of this system. But he asks, " What is the benefit? ' Of course, it is what I and a lot of other members of this hall fear, that by not binding time on these fishing warrants, they look forward to the future - and that is exactly what has been discussed in a number of opinions, both resource economics and a number of committees that have been proposed on this matter - some form of permanent possession of the enterprises on the resource itself, not just the fishing warrants they hold. That, of course, is what we want to avoid in this regard. We want to make sure, on the other hand, that there is no doubt about the custody and possession of the nation's resources as such and that we are only dealing with the temporary fishing rights of the enterprises. And there is no secret that this arrangement could then lay the groundwork for a reasonable future fishing auction, setting up an example and establishing temporary fishing clearances that could be dealt with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u36	Mr. President. This is what we disagree about, me and what we do. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson. I don't think there's any reason to be building into fish fishing laws, whether they're current or what they might prefer to replace, this time commitment because the law itself is absolutely certain about who owns the resource. It's all about the authority to use it, and it can be taken or handled with the means to use them in a way that the people themselves do, and that is the ideals that they choose at any given time are the most acceptable thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon for an excellent speech. He went through many fields, and came even. Into the dinner system itself. There I cut down the senator's words about syrup. At that time, he was appealing to have some sort of structured confines in the system to shut off excommunications from communities. I made a special decision on the premium of a country partner, but it was shown in his speech that he is corrupt or is not working. A few years ago, already a little. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was a short - term sea chief, and he set up a group that was supposed to work with a graffiti to get this done on some level in a conversation with loan agencies about how to work on this matter so that rural and community governments could help it with some community. It may be with lower interest or with some ideas, measures, so it could be possible. I would like to ask the senator: Do you have any ideas about how this work could be approached, and how could you get it to the point where it was a foundation? I ask whether he or his party have any accurate idea of how this assignment could be reached.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u38	Mr. President. No, I'll admit I don't have solid ideas in this. To tell you the truth, so I speak my heart clean, I think I've had all kinds of ideas that might add up to this rather than to thinking and testing them on others, many of them have fallen on themselves. It was tried, as men know, with this prerogative. It's such a court order that this premium just doesn't work. It is absolutely undoubtedly, and there is no need to be further tested. This has been taken through the entire court system, and the premarital rights prescribed in the law are not valid. That's why it's just the Supreme Court decision. This syrup convergence I took is just the same thing. The premium was to act like syrup in the system, it could be managed, the communities could be given the option. Of course, there are many factors that make them difficult, such as. it has no community to buy that kind of company. This would leave people empty in their home to dwell on the matter, possibly giving others in the community the opportunity to do so, and seeing if they could cooperate with other parties elsewhere in order to keep the market or to use them in the community. I don't have that patent solution. But I think it's at least One Mass worth going over to see if it can't be found.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this. It's natural, as the senator entered, very difficult for societies. That's so much money that often goes on. But this approach, the syrup style that he calls it, is something I think is a good idea to slow down. I made contact with a graffiti, and this work never started. The people didn't see a way to keep doing this, so I encourage him to push it to the top. High-price minister, get this thing back on its way. My second question, which I had in answer to earlier, points to my concerns and many others of my medium - sized outputs. In the ideal case of both. A senator in Grindavik is a hunting fee last year about 83% of profits. [[The president calls.]] It's just a fact. And on Snæfells 74% and the West. Don't you think the Senator's worried about this, and don't you think we need to grab in there?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u40	A respectable president. Yes, that's a lot of thought. True, this situation has many explanations, this increase in fishing fees in Grindavík. That's even. Because in the bullfish factory there, the company enjoyed a debt-related discount on fishing fees, such as in some places elsewhere. On top of other shocks in the fishing road, this discount was removed. For various reasons, the construction of the land in Grindavík suffered worse than it did in many other lands. That's at least Part of the explanation why this very negative change occurs in Grindavik and the share of the fishing fees there - on one occasion the discount was removed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I understand it, though, that it is very long before we are to agree on this subject. However, it is important for us to reason and to get an explanation. I want to ask you why. A senator making changes to the bill's objective. I feel like a whale. Councilmen who have spoken here from the administrative sector want to argue that this is not a big change. There's no rise or decrease and something like that. So when you start to look at things, there's now more change than you want to be. One change is a change in the focus field that I don't fully understand why it is. The current bill speaks of the fishing fees being given to ensure the nation's overall share in the profits produced by the sea resources. I think we can all agree on this. However, there is in this bill a change proposal that says that the fishing fee exists, by permission of the President, to ensure the nation as a whole and to make a visible share in the recovery of the crops of the oceans. This is where the figure of the plant has been taken out and spoken of a ◯ share in the product of the product. I want to pray. A senator to explain this to me. Why was there reason to change this objective? That's the simple question. Why is this different?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u42	Mr. President. The easy way for me would be to answer that, in order that I don't know. I don't know the story behind the wiretap of words, but I can't imagine that there's a bad conspiracy or a bad mind behind it. I feel as if - but I didn't realize it until then. Harðardóttir This change - a normal phrase in this context of growth and profit - told me now that this change had taken place. Aker is just a narrower concept and begins making money for shareholders and things like that. There is no part of what the fishing fee is to be returned. It should be part of the enterprise's contribution, not in what company governments at any given time might decide on interest money or something like that. I don't know why they replaced it. But I think it's a better wording.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u43	Mr. President. I'm just surprised because then there's all the assumptions of trying to figure out what the money is, what the resource is. And then the percentage of what the nation should get begins to talk about. That is why I am surprised at the change in word, even because it is not exactly visible or very clear how all of this is done. To form this ratio, 33% of the resource resources to flow to the nation, how it is found out. Under 2009 and in the early years, only a very small cost of hunting was spent, and this was hardly enough for expenses. Then comes one year, 2012, where a special resource fee is collected. But these laws were never completely successful, for according to them, a higher percentage of resources was to be passed on to the nation. [[The president calls.]] Then come forward and independence, and reverse it. [[The president calls.]] I want to pray. A senator to explain to me why this number is justified, 33%. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And why are there rivers that were not even collected a decent catch fee?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u44	It's directed to the president. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u45	A respectable president. It is, for example, evidence of this in all the employment committees around it and in the Ministry's bill itself, how these numbers have been discovered and what basis is behind them. The most outstanding example is the removal of a kilo of cod, which breaks up to the end. It has an average price for codfish, which was about 196 kr. and 45 pennies in this definition. There's so little debate about the criteria to take about this. But when you're figurein' this out and figure out the number, like I know what. A senator, though well aware of this, eventually stood, once this nearly 200K had been withdrawn. a standard price for codskins, after a net profit from the cod at two o'clock. and 56 pennies. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is then the reference charge, probably because men considered this to be a normal reference. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't know a better explanation for this on this minute that I have.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u46	It's still directed by the president to what. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u47	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize hunting fees. There's been some very interesting discussion on this important matter here. I'd like to start by thanking the Minister and the Ministry for our cooperation on the job committee for the bill. I also want to thank the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir, for good cooperation and good management of the Committee as well as all members of the committee, the matter has been two months on the committee, and the cooperation has been very good. There's nothing wrong with it. So I have been surprised to learn that we have not been able to stand together and that there has been some pressure on the work. I was surprised, as much was done of it. I don't experience it that way at all. In fact, more often when the committee work is completed and members come out and watch television cameras change the atmosphere, and the picture is not always the experience we know from the commission, which is the natural key to our activities at the council. I'd like to say it right away at the beginning of a talk, perhaps nothing too long, that as the situation is on the market in the country, I feel that the fishing costs are too high. That's the big truth on this matter that I know. They take too much of the company's profits and stop their progress. The great innovation and stimulation of the workplace under a powerful seabed will suffer in the end. The rate of hunting is a national tax, the worst in the scattered areas of the country, as we were allowed to get to know and hear when representatives of the country came to our home and crossed the posts, and as we read a report as marine rights in Grindík, South and Eastern countries had a report made, as well as a group in the North and West, and I'm going to quote only afterwards. The big picture for me is the enormous reduction in the number of projections. The number of miniboats has decreased by about 60% since 2006 to 2018, and the labor rate of hookboats has increased by 83% over a small number of projections. The same is happening in the miniboat group and between the inter- and larger outputs, and resources are moving towards fewer hands. I think there must be some concern for us that will remember the time when the quota system was put on and here was expelled all over the country with a number of boats in a very difficult situation. The aim of the eater system was to reduce the number of boats, increase the cost, and increase the water supply, and it succeeded. I've been wondering for a very long time whether this economy may be too far gone, and it may be because of our work and decisions at the General Assembly. By putting too much money on the fishing business and by contributing ourselves to it, we who speak against making small numbers. Our work has contributed to this. I hear in the discussion that when we who want to do this slowly and try to bring the price closer to time, the memory comes and says that the job is not working well enough, that it is being given billions of dollars at the same time as we are removing from micro- and older citizens. I now travel somewhat in my district, as the people know, come and meet many, and can tell you, my dear friends here in this hall, that this debate and how it is arranged, that there must never be spoken of any created thing from this chair any other than that it is being cut off from these groups that we all want to take care of and protect, is beginning to harm these groups. I hear people are getting tired of this discussion, being constantly comparing interest rates to decisions in other areas, as in this case, fishing costs. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Fishing is just a special decision, totally regardless of how the result is otherwise. They must take into account the results of the road. We cannot go beyond that. I think it must be the most important part of this. I'd also like to mention that the prospects are not bright, that we need to look at them. In fact, the bullfish is doing well in most respects, but there are black reports of mackerel, coal, and fur, and, of course, the lobster that has not been released for longer than a hairy one. It is 76% lower in the western ocean than it was in the last year. It's hard to pull, and it doesn't seem like it's a fur. Actually, it's not new, but it's like up to a 40 to50% reduction in the saying on the macroil of the next fishing year. What will be the result for us? Yes, there will be great consequences. This, too, will have consequences for the survival of the fishing industry, especially for the underprivileged companies, who have built up to take that valuable fish. We may also need to realize that when we take advantage of our country's natural resources, there's little evidence to calm down. I'm just going to come on to the visits we had on the job committee and the messages that come to us from that day forward. I hear very much of the discussion that it's no problem to raise the fishing costs now because the oil is dropping and the oil is starting to fall, and this will be returned right away to the development. Yes, it will, and it will also return to the rate of hunting in 2020, as these laws are set up. That's how it's gonna be. If a fixed payment was paid in real time, it would come right away. As I do not get tired of saying, " If a catch fee was taken, as if for land, the price would be alive and would immediately change when the oil prices fall and when the gang drops, and there will be more to change. But this system does not allow it to happen immediately. There's always some unpredictable in this. I've also said it's unfair that only one article pays the resource fee, the fishing fee in this case. I think it's very important that we take it seriously. I've been looking at how we can calculate the resource charge of every piece that uses nature, the fish in the sea, the heat in the earth, the waters, the northern lights, and sell all of this together expensively. You can do this by placing simple low taxes on the quality of the companies. Norway contains e.g. has a check-up charge of 1.35%, which is a kind of fishing fee, which also has a state - of - the - art fishing road. In Iceland, the equivalent price is 1.65, so it's considerably higher. A respectable president. When we were visited by the 14th - century Western Association, we received information that this year the fishing cost had increased from 800 million to 2.5 billion. 2.5 billion are similar to the income of a rural society of 2,500 people, or half of the population service costs in the northwestern district. There people feel that 33% of resource expenditures are too high and are concerned that the water source is the only resource - paying factor. They were also concerned about the survival of small boats. Now it is clear that with this bill it is a dramatic increase in the rate of the hookboats and the miniboats by having 40%, one number, in person discount of the first 6 million. This increases the rate of small boats to a maximum of 1.5 million to 2.4 million. This is a substantial improvement for this modeling party, which is about 38% of boats that receive 406 million for discount or 852 for a 40% discount of 6 million. K. Hunting fee. The EU is very happy with this conclusion, so it declared at a meeting on the committee. The price to pay for their clients falls from 150 million to 73 million. That's not what we're talking about. Of course, they're trying to be nice to these people. In contrast, in Iceland, there are 27 species of hunting fees, but in the Faeroe Islands, three species. As I said before, a check fee in Norway is 1.35% of the added value. In addition, Icelandic carbon expenditures pay nine to one of the nine hundred and twenty-one. In a quart of oil. For information, the fishing fee in the Faeroe Islands has always been higher, except for 2018. In Iceland, hunting costs are 9.3 k. per kilogram, but in Faeroe Islands, 6.9 The food supply companies in Grindavík, Southland, and the East gathered information on the delivery process and how the fishing costs work in these rural communities. It is largely a bullfish industry, but in Western islands it is, of course, mixed with bullfish and ocean fish. It turns out that in the Western islands, the rate of hunting costs of profits is 35.3%, in Grindavik 82.6%, and in East 19%. You see, every reasonable person sees that this is the result, that 83% of the company's profits go to hunting costs, doesn't reach any direction. I think we need to consider this on the board between discussions whether there is no need to set up temporary rules in the law that in the next year it will be specifically considered how the results of different fishing initiatives are because at the end of the day, the decision of the council must be that the fees will be right on different categories. This report clearly indicates an excessive and unnecessary difference. I've tried to stick with the subject that's discussed here, discussing the fishing fees. These fishing costs are a big decision. I think they're too high, I'm going to admit it. I've already said that from this talk chair, and I have now also said that I feel that there should be other ways to go, but this is the result of the greater part of which I follow, of course, even though I would have chosen that we are going a simpler route. We see that the number of cryo-grabs is still being reduced. One company has reduced the number of cryoprecipitations from four to one in one year, 136 sailors having lost their jobs. They have a salary rate of 200 to 300 million per month. It may be 3 billion a year, and the value could be if I shoot at it from this discourse, 15 billion. Is there any idea that men are doing this because they're doing so well? No, that's because it's not working well enough. It's us, the senators of this hall, who decide what to do in the fishing road, with their efficiency and production over the head and shoulders of all other businesses in Iceland. It is very important that he continues to maintain that level of employment, not just in the country, but throughout the country and for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He became somewhat aware of the amount of resource bills, contracting in the industry, and worrying about it, and then worrying about the senator that no other professions paid such resource fees. Of course, I can't help but ask why. In recent years, a member of the body of elders was affected by the problems such as these articles, such as energy industry and others, and why not more has been done in the council. A senator is to deal with the unfairness of himself. But I always love listening to the Independence Party in this matter. It's always better to realize that this is the government of the three forwards. There's no such thing as marketing in this system of yours. You senators are going to sit here over and over again and argue on what is the right resource fee. What's the real catch fee? To whom do you think you're the real catch fee? But by no means will you trust your own efforts to resolve this. Never. This is not a market worry group, this is the forward group. Actually, there are three of them in this government. But I don't understand, and I'd like to ask why. A member of Parliament: Why can we not allow the article to be considered, as was the case with the restoration? suggested and other categories? This is not so with other jobs in this country, if we watch e.g. on construction or other projects. They are professionals who have to fight behind their necks to secure their assignments. They don't have the experience for years or decades. Still, they invest very handsomely in their professional affairs. They have to work day by day and month to month. Of course, a fishing route just being able to offer 20 - year - old fishing grounds, as the changing proposal of the part reads, i.e. There's time to tie in such a fishing warrant. I'd like to ask you what. A senator and a representative of the Marketing Affairs Party: How much do you fear in this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is opposed. Hv. Council members of the reveries have been talking about three forward groups. I have to say right now, I think it's a terrible space, like this. I'm not in a special position to be making fun of my colleagues at the council. We were with you on the government for a year. I just thought it was going really well. Then I thought you were pretty happy not to promote your policies. That's the way it is with us. We are one group of three with differing opinions on the subject. As independent people, we are so unoccupied with upholding our views. But we are also absolutely determined to stick together in the policy of the government, which, then, is our agreement of three categories. This is normal in today's government community. Of course, that is how we must work. We need to be like the National football team playing a game. Of course, not everyone agrees whether to play a defense or a offense. But we play our own plays. I'll tell you what. Senator: The most important thing for the fishing is foreview. The most important thing for him is to be able to assume that he has a greeting until the next year. That is the foundation of the building. It's the basis for innovation that we're talking about standing behind the water. Just go to the cryo-houses in Grindavik, they're laboratorys for the innovations in the country that are exporting their products for billions of dollars. and to the competitive countries as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u50	Mr. President. This is exactly the point. Hv. A senator thinks it's like, "Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, I always think it's a bit cute what the lndependences are feeling about being called the reachees, which they certainly are. But this, of course, is the very essence of a matter. [[Up front.]] This is the nature of the market economy. Seafood has adapted to changing market conditions within the cry system with free forwards in recent decades and has done so with great benefits. I'm not worried that this article is not capable of continuing to do so. Hv. A senator described the changes in a modeling pattern, which is quite right to be significant. The fish will be caught. I'm not worried about that. They will not be destroyed with value. However, the article is constantly finding new and better ways to make use of the sea, which, of course, is just the nature of the market economy and the nature of all the sectors, working on the market presidents. We're supposed to let them operate on the market presidents. This is what we do not fear, that, rather than other branches, the fishing costs cannot simply be paid, the price of the colony's rights, themselves. Without being held here for years and decades, this continued, trying to find out who the real price is. We trust every other industry in this. As I look at a class in particular, I will always be as amazed as the independent party that seems to me to be to some people to trust the fishing road in that way. It always surprises me as much. I, however, agree with what you say. A senator, it is very fun to observe the growth in the fishing industry in many areas, the technological technologies, and the development there, which are just one reason why the article has done so well and how powerful and profound it has been in recent decades. I'm not worried that this article will not work out for itself, even if it will pay for its own hunting expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u51	A respectable president. Yes, thank you. Senator. In fact, I think we agree on a lot of things. We're just branches of the same hurt and we go to the heart like this. I think it is very important for the seaside that he will be so strong that he can continue to create new jobs instead of reducing the number of jobs that have become automatic. The number of crews is reduced, the number of fish farmers is reduced because of the automatic activity we produce in Iceland. When I started fishing years ago, foreign machines and equipment were available. Now it's all Icelandic and super cool. You know it. And, as the companies in Grindavík are doing, creating and producing all these products to create new jobs, high-tech jobs, for the people, for young people in Grinsavík to get to work at home. We do not do this by limiting their availability to the seaside by making contracts. I say, let us work together to create an environment for the hunters, for the companies in the country, so that they can pay more. That's one of the things we're always talking about, that the welfare of the country will not be based on taxes. It will be based on what a professional life can take into the country. I think the most important thing is to create valuable jobs. It's us in this room that needs to create the environment that it becomes reality. It's the bottom line I say, and I'm sorry, a respectable president, that I wear it down like this at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u52	President's got a real problem with that kind of gossip.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u53	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson spoke of a play. He put my thoughts here yesterday when I was listening to the talks of my second - part job committee on the suggestion that it was a kind of play, and I thought of a play that was delivered last year in Reykjavík, which was called the show that went wrong. She wrote about a drama in which things went wrong, the script wasn't clear enough, the actors didn't know her lyrics, the props were made badly, and the watch became a farce. I'm going to stick to my script, because we're all in a certain play, end up looking forwarder. I think it's true, as the reveries often talk, that there are all the candidates in this administrative business. I think we're all desperate people. Then there are different birth defects. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] A respectable president. There's a 2nd over here. The bill on a fishing fee taken in the fall has been discussed on the job board. The bill suggests that a new total fishing fee will be established. An enchanting law is from 2012. A number of changes have been made, and more methods than one have been used to determine the cost of fishing. The bill currently based on the government's declaration of policy, which says that review of the legislation on fishing needs to be aimed at ensuring the nation's righteous share of the resource and taking into account the survival of the enterprises. These changes make the source of the fishing fee more understandable and more transparent. The bill has been well discussed, and many sources were invited to appear and speak for themselves. In five dozens of accounts, he entered the committee. In recent years, there have been some discussions about the pressures of hunting fees, especially as a result of their rising fishing in 2016/2017. Many people want to call this national tax and have noted that this is an effective blood collection for local law and even a quarter. The cost of fishing increased in the last year and already exists for commercial development companies that have surrendered, and no one is thinking of movement. The standard of dating is due to poor outcome in today's bottom-fish industry. The bill is based on the production of fishing companies two years ago, and the fishing costs of this fishing year are therefore linked to the yield of the 2015 article, which was significantly better than the results of the last year. That's why the crown is strengthened and the price of raw materials is reduced. Small and mediumsized companies have serious problems. This is not just a matter of the presence of individual bloodshed but of a quarter. In many parts of the country, only small and medium - sized fishing companies, which are often the largest commercial means. There's a lot at stake. In a short time, we will not build up or strengthen other employment projects to deal with what might happen if this support was cut down. Enterprise compression - would we like to see one large company that has no connection with society run the whole seabed in the country? I don't think so, and this isn't the reality people want to live with. My competitiveness in the farmost markets is very limited. You can, for example. say and point out that companies that live far away from the market are paying about 20 bucks. per kilogram for market transport. How do you think this is going to happen when it's time to go to the market auction? Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek spoke yesterday of an efficient market always achieving in the practicality, that is, its nature, toward practicality. And how do you think this looks when this is over and what the credit card looks like and where are the companies? I think it's very simple, there'd only be one large spot on the southwest corner, all the companies would be there. A fishing industry cannot object, and has not done, paying off the resource, since they did not object when it went well. However, the price must be fair and take into account in time and other aspects of business. They don't make money on the resource if it costs us an established company. We have acknowledged that fishing and farming are important work fields based on local markets, and their implications for the economic activities of the local community can be very high. Fish - processing companies are in different circumstances to compete for international markets, and the Agency, in its Summit on the impact of current fishing costs, is stated to have different levels of marine soil companies and to have different operating conditions. In situations where fishing costs are burdensome and even difficult circumstances may arise, the company needs to respond by managing business matters. What then? Sell and quit. In some cases, this has meant sales of fishing warrants or just business, and it is often very difficult in the fishing area. A respectable president. The round of hunting bill is now 2nd. and to respond to the criticism that the current bill is useful to marine resources, I would like to say that the growth in that sector has dropped substantially between years and the current fishing costs are taken from corporate profits two years ago. This bill looks for sensitivity to change in delinquency and to improve the quality of things in time. It will only be to watch for fishing and to see the result in the coming year of hunting. I think it's important to look for fishing because we're looking at a budget for the resource, for going and picking up the fish in the ocean - not whether it's investing in money companies and getting its profits out of it, as are so many big fishing companies doing. There may be other discussions and other expenses. It is only natural that hunting costs reflect a ratio of profits close to the time they are put on. It is also expected that hunting fee management will be modified and delayed when information is treated. Based on data based on the tax returns of fishing vessels, as well as the reports to the Fishing Room on income and value, will be avoided. A greater proportion of the employment providers suggest some changes in their proposals, mainly to the discount to meet smaller types and intermediate groups. It's basically that the first 40% of the first 6 billion freaks are off-limits. K. the stress of each year, and it will be most useful to the smallest amount of production, but it would decrease when it is too low, normal. In view of the greater part, the cut-off target needs to be strengthened further, with this adjustment specifically responding to the difficult situation of SMEs and also looking at the settlement. Reduced species are much more dependent off cycle swings and have resulted in compression and loss of function and damage of population. According to calculated calculations, the maximum discount would reach 500 tons and likely about 700 people who enjoy it. A single peak recovery rate is increased from 1.5 billion. K. from current bill in 2.4. More than 100 billion are said to have crops that have less value than that of 100 billion. K. on average, the next three years would not produce a stock for fishing. The majority believe that fishing costs can influence the motivation to pick up such species. The types that can fall under here are blue-horned, sandy, and file tattoos. This should prevent evaporation, as well as encourage the introduction of these species into the market. A respectable president. Here are the suggestions given by the majority of the parts of the committee that have been greatly consulted, both to those in the article and to others who have sent in the reviews, as well as to those in the lesser section who have been present all these meetings. We've had a lot of visitors. The minister has held a national press conference so that all talk of violence is simply wrong. Here is a modification proposal of 2 smaller items submitted on a black Friday, which is a quick, dry sale bill. This is not accompanied by a report with further updates on the consequences of the bill. In 93 words, the fishing system, which is a discussion at home in a different bill and elsewhere, is about to be tolerated, but I'm not afraid of accepting that discussion and will be there when it is announced. Besides, there has been no consultation or conversation about these suggestions in the committee, and I miss it. The longer she is discussed, the better explanation for her. We're supposed to be brave and take this discussion, just not with this team. It is evident from the adjusted suggestions 2nd memory that they have not been observing the discussion or have heard the warnings of those who came before the committee. I don't remember any sources headed toward this proposal. I'm not going to have it any more here, because there's been a lot of things being said, some good things and a lot of different things, but the discussion is good, and I hope this makes the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u54	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill on the changed collection at hunting costs. I'm glad that this bill is done and that we're approaching some realistic solution to collecting a single sector in excess of others and that it's something that would swing in some beat to the survival and closer to time, which I think was always the goal of everyone first that we decided on another level to go into reimburse. I am glad that there is some way that is more beneficial and is based on better information that can be more dependent on the stability that all industry needs to live on. I can't deny, however, that as much as there is good in the bill, and to start a positive start trying to achieve some kind of realistic system of this, based on better and safer data and the reality more, the price is still too high. Why do I say the price is too high? It shows the results of about 600 of the fishing budget companies. We've seen it since the cost of fishing increased so much and went to the amount they're currently in, how massive the contractions have been. It's been difficult to develop in various structure forms and of different sizes to get through. Which has resulted in the purchase of these resources, which have had better management grounds or better conditions, as well as the combination of these resources, and in this way have been able to further improve their economy and to respond to the contractions that have been experienced over the years. We must bear in mind when discussing the resource's fishing fees that they should be moderate and reasonable, which may be the only step left, I believe, after those charges came up, what is moderate and fair. Most of the projects that work today, up to 95%, have purchased their resources. They've been playing on market grounds buying relics, and thus they've paid for their access to rights to innovation, even though it's totally undisputed. You see, the debate is often about who has the right to use it. Those who have the right to use it today have bought it, that's just the way it is. This does not mean that we are arguing about having someone assigned a greeting because they have gone out. Those assigned have either been cut off, or they have had to buy it back because of contracts. That is why they have had to buy their authority on the matter. And because of these curses, many have decided to get out of the article instead of letting the State take up their life's work. It's just that way. I'm very concerned that if the cost remains too high, we'll have to develop urban development, where 90% of the resources are out in the country - there's been an enormous development in which the companies have been investing in technological development and innovation. I don't think innovation is any more commercial in Iceland than in the fishing road. Who enjoy the most of all the fruits of that new creation? This is especially in the capital area where technology and technology are building up at the fishing mall, Marel, 3X Steel, and Alka, and this is on the southwestern corner. Frost, Cold, you can count these companies forever. Then there are the companies that are building around the country, Hauskak, Codland, Kercis, Genis, Protes, and long counts. These are high-tech companies that are raising the number of educated people in secondary work from the fishing grounds. But because of overwork, the companies around the country will not have the opportunity to shop at these innovation companies or to be involved in this technological development, in innovation and development, in full - time work on the crops and other such things, but there is something else to be done. The numbers show that unmanned fish are always exported to greater and greater levels. While other countries, such as Norway, are congregating the export of unfed fish, the exporting of fuller goods, valuable products, from Iceland is being a raw exporting nation. It's not good for anyone, so we need to know what it means to have these curses. It's not about the poor developers or the big guys, it's just not about them. That doesn't mean giving all the discussion about these three big companies, four big companies that stand out what's better when we have 600 others who aren't doing too well. We need to talk about it overall. It's about the settlements, the rural areas, and the people who are working on it, the people of the innovation, the young people who are coming from the schools and participating in the construction and benefit from their efforts if the sectors are able to participate in innovation and development. It's about the people working for them, investing in their assets, making their living worth working for the companies and the secondary jobs. It's also about the whole service sector, all the mechanics, all the electricians, the carpenters, everything, everybody working for these companies all over the place. You see, it's the service field that doesn't have any resources. Those in the Service Department did not experience much of the economic breakdown in 2008 and 2009; they just barely felt it because the fishing road could continue at that time. This allowed the fishing road to continue and save what would be saved. But what happened in the sailors'strike? Then you have a lot of problems with the service companies when the fishing road was stopped. Then they were in a lot of trouble. So we are not here talking about the hundreds of families in the fishing business around the country. We're talking about the service companies and the people. We're talking about whole societies and then innovation and evolution. This is what we need to know when we're talking about this. All talk about social talk and what it says, and there is a visitor, there is just no fact or fact. It's just that way. Let us not agree with the entire structure, even if one or two organizations have the opportunity to pay interest, perhaps in other activities, even in foreign activities. It's just people's eyes getting dusted by talking like that. Let us not forget, too, what it was about 35 years ago, all in the fund system, and how things were done. Where's that come from? Where has the fishing road developed? Why are we standing here and sharing in discussions about how to collect bills? This is the only fishing route in the world that is a sustainable and state fund in the position of collecting extra fees. Are we going to put this in some danger? Is anyone willing to do that? We've developed a system that we're supposed to be proud of and cherish in order to nurture the settlement, structure, development, and innovation. That was mostly what I wanted to say. It can be talked about for a long time, and it can go on many of the factors. My message is mainly that I'm glad we're going a healthier route in the collection and wanted to emphasize what it could mean to have paid too much for the diverse groups of the country and for the general public. I got it. I got it. The job board to consider whether it would be appropriate for a jointly approved bill to monitor the effect this would have on individual structures, watch for immediate effects on shrinking or indentation, or slow down the trend. It may also be that no industry has evolved so rapidly into environmental conditions as well as the marine route and has achieved tremendous success there. In order for him to continue this development and to be a significant success in the environment, he needs to be able to invest, he must be able to invest, and then it is important that the State has not taken all that money and is assigned to an intelligent project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u55	Mr. President. I can't really say anything. I feel that it is so intense to listen to right men talking about the way of the sea and what he really is doing, that he needs the support of politicians acquiesce and sacredness in order to stand on his own feet. It is true that the talk was given at the beginning. A senator that there are many great things in the fishing business, and the article has evolved from its own weight over the years and decades. It may be nice to bear in mind that at the same time as fishing costs were introduced for the first time in earnest from 2010, it was greatly increased by one of the greatest investments the fishing road has ever taken. I don't really understand when you listen to independents say that here the hand of the government needs to be all over control of how the article develops and where it grows and prospers. It has evolved primarily on its own. Maybe that's the best option. But here we are always shocked that these companies are going to be watching which companies are growing and flourishing, which companies are likely to belittle this year or God knows what. If we were to spend all the time that independent men spend talking about agriculture and fishing to discuss all the other sectors in this country, we would probably be doing nothing else in a chamber but discussing some of the sector's activities. When it comes to agriculture and fishing, the Independence Party is not a market company. He's some sort of board of directors, kind of a socialist party. When it comes to these two sectors, he has no faith in a free market. [[The president calls.]] I don't have a question for what? A senator. I just think that this attitude is so intense that it is so clear in his language.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u56	A respectable president. I have to admit, I didn't quite realize what was going on. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson or what he meant. I just thought that it would not be necessary to surprise anyone when the right men speak of an attack on one article in excess of the other. I don't know any better than me and what. A senator has agreed that lower taxes can increase space and drive and drive in communities. That's exactly what we're talking about here. I don't know what I wanted to manipulate the way I was looking for. I was just saying that here we were reducing the intervention of the government so that the fishing route can continue to develop, Icelandic community for the benefit, that we did not contribute to the intervention and high costs of the fishing road, and people would be allowed to develop it, rather, to be a treasure creation. It's exactly our independent dream, like those in the fishing business, that we don't have to discuss it that much. We just want this system that's worked great. All we ask and want to do is that the curses are not too high. We're here to celebrate the fact that there's only a more transparent, clearer system. Then we hope that uncertainty will decrease, that they will be able to only work in the market environment they are working today and continue to develop the waters of the sea, for the benefit of the entire Icelandic nation. Let's hope we don't have to talk about the fishing route here, how we're supposed to support him and help him, as if we had to talk about the agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u57	Mr. President. As for the latter, I completely agree. Senator. It is true that a good, favorable, simple, transparent tax system, a fair tax system, is a basis for a good, strong business life. We should avoid as much specific solutions in the individual sectors. Here we are simply talking about our being a complete, good, clear, simple tax system for the entire job life and then as simple and beneficial as possible to resource prices. This system here is not available. That's a dirty mix. It's a dirty mix where you have some prepared-out operations to cover the recovery of jobs that, at best, only, at best, cover part of its survival, when it is easier to use the marketing system, allow the article to offer this themselves. Therefore, when it comes to these matters, the Independence Party is nothing more than a socialist party. Of course, it would be interesting if the Independence Party did not have so much social phobia when it came to the hunting fees, resource costs, were ready to discuss these matters openly with other groups, but did not just drive on their own. Then perhaps we could finally agree on some parapolitic solution in this case that made sure that we didn't have to stand here year after year to discuss the same thing, well, I'll say the most likely subject. There's something we need to put our arms around. The fact is, though, that this is the social phobia of the Independence Party. No matter what a parapolitic conclusion has been reached in recent years, it is always the Independence Party that is left alone. But he's got his way. In fact, the fact is that the dollar is involved, perhaps at that point, that there will be little enough for the band to be able to do their part in this. But that would be advice, huh? A senator, that we would cross this parapolitic to try to reach some conclusion that lives longer than one year or two. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u58	A respectable president. I don't know what social phobia is going on, since this case has been introduced once before to the council from this government, and it's done with full publicity as the council would like. It was then announced that the case would return, and the minister had even traveled around the country and met everyone he would like to meet to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u59	Except for the board of directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u60	He has a political responsibility to bring in a case that has most of the things that have been discussed over the past 10 years on how to collect this fee. But why is this so complicated, and why is there so much need to discuss how to collect this fee? Because it's a method that, in my personal opinion, doesn't work, paying for these extra charges. If the industry goes well and progresses, it'll just pay a higher income tax, it'll only return more if it works well. What price for using the resource should be paid? That's, I think, what she's paid for the colony's rights, i.e. 95% of all dishes are purchased today. It's paid for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u61	The country's not its owner?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u62	The people are owner. I'm talking about the right to use it. As a result, we are deciding how to collect, how much to give, and what arrangements are and all of them. Because it's ours, and it's perfectly clear. There is also the right to buy and to sell. If companies are doing well, they pay income taxes. The higher the fishing costs, the lower the income tax will be next year. This is what we're doing here. I'd choose that there were no fees, and I believe the public could get more for their possessions in the ocean like that, if the innovation and evolution and the motivation were allowed to rule here, and we wouldn't always have political uncertainty as to what to pay or whether they'd keep their resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u63	Mr. President. I'd like to reiterate my gratitude for the Supreme Court. The prime minister has found time to come here, as discussed with members of the council. Then I suppose there's members of the government opposition, that's what we need to do at the highest level of words. Prime Minister. She came to the house at four o'clock. We were told she'd be here until 6:00. Yesterday, we experienced that the council members were very diligent in pushing down on the speaker's list. However, this has not happened now, and now it is a short period of time from those hours that were in my opinion intended for the government stand to have a word with prime minister. I'd appreciate it if you could help with this, in a friendly manner. I understand prime minister and all that. But we'd rather, so we don't have to go knocking on or asking for more time on the side of the world's highest force. Prime Minister, that this time would be used for government opposition while the prime minister is in the house - to - house position.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u64	Mr. President. I want to come up here and agree with what. paritaprevir In fact, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns, said that I would have liked it even better if we had received a little story from the highest court. The prime minister and the government would have been given a clear counterclockwise to discuss this matter because the matter has been discussed here at the council. But since that was not the case, it would have been a good idea that this stream we had yesterday with the rosary would be repeated today so that we in the government stand could have a place at the top of the word. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u65	Mr. President. There were senators before, and I don't know that they were asked to move to a rosary. It would have been the least of it, I believe, to wish they had wanted to take advantage of this hour. In the past, people have been moved up and down the rosary, not just in this matter, but in many others. I think it would have been best if we had that conversation with members of Congress. But let us not misuse the remaining time while the prime minister is in the meeting board of presidents.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u66	I'm picking myself up on the speaker's table because I really don't want to waste my time, the precious time that we senators get from the highest level. Prime Minister to discuss this important matter. But I'd like to stress that I had this discussion with the president, and he said that the prime minister would be here, and I wished that there would be a gate for me and also for others. The president was well aware that my position was that I wished it would be some time for the government's stand. But let us not make such a big deal happen. Prime Minister is in the hall. We have five minutes to have a word with her, and I think we should just start talking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u67	Mr. President. I hope I don't have much news that I'm in the Hall of Congress because I'm in the plagitary and I was here last night. I know there are some gooks here. Congress officials on the rosary may answer, especially if they want to direct my questions. Since I find myself quite different from my being in a council hall, I want to reiterate that I am here many times and always enjoy having conversations, so I don't see why I'm making any more drama out of it. I've been here since. 16 and I'll be here by 5:00. 18th I'm sure the members of the greater part are prepared to move to the rosary, if desired. I'm sure it's easy to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u68	Mr. President. I'm gonna come down here as an agent of information from those sitting in the Senate hall last night until midnight, and I'm gonna get it right. Björk Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said that here we could get into a roster with a speaker's file. President of the Council, please. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, announced yesterday that there would be no more compromise in this discussion. When we kept on coming up and calling it, he sent us to look so cruelly, that it stabbed in the back of the head. That wasn't part of the discussion, and I hope so. þingkona Bjarkey will discuss this with his colleague and be confirmed. [[Up front.]] It was quite clear that there would be nothing to do with this talk - and he looked very rigid when he said it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u69	...second.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u70	In this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u71	Mr. President. I watched the talk from home on TV, where I was still on leave and couldn't be in the Senate Hall and participate in the discussion. But I'm just gonna point out that there's been a move today, just to tell them what. The senator that members of Congress have been reassigned to the rosary today, just to be said here. I don't think it's a holy rule. However, it is known that people will move to, up and down on the rosary, the government, and the government at every hour, so they have been done so today. I don't think the President meant it was forever, amen.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u72	Mr. President. I just want to say something because we're talking about where we were when we heard those news yesterday. I was sitting in a hotel room in Budapest listening with very good technology, known as AirPods, to the President's conference board. This is how far you can be led into all this. This is how I understood it. But I come up first and foremost to say something that I'm not sure I said before and doubt that I will say again: I rest my trust here on this program for the President of the Parliament, OK? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, and believe that he will resolve this matter as well as it will be best chosen for all of us so that we can continue to do this, whether it is a member of the council who continues to block the administrative councils or those in the government council who continue to ruin the scene with a discussion of a meeting board. I just think the President will work it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u73	The president believes that this case is somewhat self-solved. The next five speakers are all from a position of government. Prime Minister's on the scene. To me, it's not very complicated. Wants to play. paritaprevir Is the President's conference board being spoken again by the log Einar Logi Einarsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u74	No, but I might have claimed that you've been messing with the tenure now into an unbecoming president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u75	[[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Then the program will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u76	Mr. President. As we know, the ideologies behind the fishing costs are two ways, one of the costs, the costs to meet the costs of the road, the costs of research and monitoring, and the other, for access to the common resource of the nation. In the context of this discussion, it is appropriate to state that the Central category does not feel that only one profession is applied to resource costs. It is important to develop a more comprehensive policy on resource costs, since the use of resource resources has an impact on the environment and it is urgent to ensure that resources are used in a practical and profitable way. The Central Party has proposed a synonym proposal that financial and economic ministers will be assigned to appoint a group of workers who will agree on the use of resources and the resources to be used. The task force should provide suggestions on how to manage resource costs that could cover all resources and then explain the benefits and defects of different methods. In addition, the team should collect information on how resource use will be used in neighboring countries. We suggest that the staff submit no later than February 1, next year. Mr. President. I want to see in this discussion that I think the locals are supposed to be involved in the fishing fee. Of this, there is also a difference between the two groups. The European Union has concluded. As we know, major changes have been made in fishing and fishing, and the rural communities have had to cope with many changes because of them. The number of jobs along the fishing road has decreased, so rural areas and settlements have to meet in some way. The code system has led to a high economy in the fishing trade and a reduced number of jobs in fishing and processing. The cost of fishing has also resulted in practical advantages, resulting in fewer jobs, but few is replaced. The coastal waters have had to be preconceived because of reduced working activity and subsequent decline in population management. So there will be changes that society and especially communities in the country will have to face. In addition, many of the continental communities have invested in investments linked to the fishing industry. The expansion of the community's share in the hunting fee is not simple but, of course, effective if the will is at hand. The setting of the fishing road must be so that its way can be profitable and achieve competition in foreign markets. The main concern in these activities is concern with SMEs and is the legitimate concern. It must also be considered that the environment, the use of the resource is environmental, and, of course, the fish stocks are used with reason. But we should not forget that society, that society affected directly through the use of the resource, thrives. Knowledge, technological progress, and the demand for increased economy have a striking effect on the number of jobs in hunting and processing, as well as on the population and status of the marine economist groups. In order for the rural community to respond to the changes in economy, it is necessary for them to share in the special fishing fee as I am here. It is unfair and unnatural that those rural communities, in fact, are becoming involved in economic management of the marine soil, need to bear the consequences alone. This can be softened by having a normal share in the amount of money, and they can cope better with the changes called. In addition, rural activities have been increasing. The latest project that the State has given to the communities without enough money is a new form of service for the disabled, so called NA, and we have discussed here in this room. The taxes of the rural community are stable, and taxes are stable, but their jobs continue to increase, as stated, and the cost of paying is increasing rather than the income. Mr. President. The marine road is a carrier pillar in the Icelandic economic system and a very important number of communities in the country. There are about 79% of the industry in fishing and employment industry from the farm area. It's interesting to look at more numbers in these subjects. In 2016 a part of the industry, attributed to the fishing grounds was 29% on the West, 20% on Eastern Europe, 18% in Western, 15% South American, and 14% in the North. In particular, if we take Western girls when it comes to fishing expenses, we can be sure that in the 2016/2017 season, an island company paid 409 million fishing fees. K. For fishing in 2017/018, they paid 1,063 million, and within that number it is not August. In the Western Islands, the taxing process of an enterprise in the fishing industry is billions of years away. For example, there are 2015 figures. Then, for example, it was. tax evasion of the Reconnaissance Centre over 3.1 billion. At the same time, the State government is not able to hold birth service in the Western Islands, and it is completely unacceptable to over 4,000 people in an island community where transportation is disloyal. The clinic at the Western Institute of Health was closed several years ago, leaving births in the island. A woman who is born needs to travel abroad in order to have her children with all the inconveniences and expenses for her family. Implementation in this way may lead to a decrease in the number of people in the local community, which has been confirmed. It is important that governments ensure good management conditions in this article and not overlook the high export costs in the seas. In addition, the marine road is for innovation, where investment is key. Today, the price of fishing points to the best year of the article. Thus, it is necessary to adjust for the future so that it is in line with the flow of the fishing grounds each time. Like what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson used to trace the prospects are not so bright ahead of the ocean hunt. It may be that the mackerel is disappearing as quickly as he arrived, the large livestock he was to the people in difficult times. It is important to maintain diversity in this article, and it needs to be taken into account. However, the payment is not to be taken separately in the country as it has been inclined to do. The price for fishing needs to be sustainable for the future and must not prevent natural investments. Icelandic fishing companies purchased products from Icelandic technical and services for less than 50 billion in 2016 and much less. The money money for the state's money is a big deal around here. This is not to be overlooked in the discussion of the seabed. Investments of the fishing industry are of great importance to the economy. It is vital that this basic work of our hands be reconciled to a state. Their responsibility lies with the article itself and the government. Some in the fishing industry have behaved in a way that reduces belief in the fishing road. As we know, the entire settlement has gone very badly from hunting warrants. Little has happened to the social responsibilities of these fishing warrants and only to profit. The warrant is legal, but I believe that the project must also ask itself, " Is it always morally correct? ' It is not healthy to believe that a steady conflict between countries around the business environment, a conflict that in many cases has become the cause and can be, as mentioned earlier, is mainly due to the sale of fishing warrants. Mr. President. We are deeply important in the water, and we tend to be this indefinitely because the production of high - quality food is becoming ever more valuable. The system needs to be self-sustained, and it needs to be the most built-up in this article. During the turn of 1900 C.E., a strong global belief in the advancement of a sovereign power gave us a free and sovereign state in 1918. The fishing industry was especially responsible for the fishing industry. With an independent fishing route of about 1880, Iceland's population was transformed. The cubing took shape, the fishing road began to expand, and its independent fishing road resulted in urbanisation. A growing attendance of water and a growing number of people had a fishing business that brought prosperity to the people of the land. Mr. President. Let us not forget the importance of the fishing road for the nation as we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the sovereignty.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to speak to him and will consider talking to him about some of the points he made as a subject. First of all, what said? A senator that he would rather see this payment, which I see to it that it does not violate, his fellow soldier sees at least some benefits of the bill available here, but he would wish to develop this payment so that it would apply to more resources than the sea resources alone. I felt that this was true in his case. I think I can agree with what. A senator's thought of this is to produce in more fields, towards more resources. I'd like to ask them what. A member of Parliament's stand is that in the constitution there will be a provision for resources, a provision for the nation's sharing of resources, which would be a fundamental factor for such a payment, either in the sea or anywhere else. Remuneration in the fishing industry has now been confirmed, and it is stated in the fish - control law that the resource is the national share. But it would not be natural for us to have such a law in a constitution to support this thought to other resources, which I thought was why. A senator is here to swerve in his speech? I ask both his position and his company for that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u78	Mr. President. Thank you very much. In response, the prime minister thanked this interest in what I had to offer in this discussion. It's probably normal, and it's in fact in this synonym that the Central Party has proposed that the overall policy on resource costs be developed. In this regard it is likely that this will be considered in the constitution. I think it's only related to the proposal we've suggested that there will be a review of the constitution as well. I've been tracking it particularly in my speech about my rural society. We can see that, for example. Regarding structures such as activations, etc. that taxation, property taxes, etc, is important to the communities. That's why it's important to me to examine all the resources, or those that matter to us most, rather than just the water. The answer is relatively simple. We have presented this synod proposal, which I hope will succeed and that Prime Minister will support it. In this regard, it is reasonable that this matter will be examined on a broader basis and on the basis of any possible rules in a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and for bringing my attention to this synopsis that he referred to. I'm glad I thought it was rough. A senator is positive that we agree in a constitution on the European Union of Resources, which is the law that the nation has expressed in a very clear will to receive in a constitution, as per a national law of 2012. But, hey. A senator returned to the rural communities in his speech. I can agree that there's good reason to discuss farm members in general. But there's a reason. A senator, and I want it out here, then, to discuss that resource fees become specifically ear-marked farm members and then all of the countryside? Or only the rural areas where the resources are found? Because, naturally, we're going to disappear from the thought that the resources are shared. In my mind, even if we live, in the case of the ocean, in a seaside or in a country, we normally collect resources from the state, which is our common fund. I would have thought normal for resource expenditures, which simply fell into government funds. However, there would be good reason to discuss the role of an equation and a further rural income partner in the growing roles entrusted to them. I'd be very grateful if it were. A senator could explain to me if it's the idea of the Central Party that resource expenditure will be made to an earmarked rural society and if that applies to any group. I'm gonna say it here, because I can't come back to answer it. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry I thought it would have been a good thing if the resources were simply dropped into the state funds, but the share of the rural society in all income stocks was taken for a special discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u80	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister. I traced this into my speech about my rural society and particularly into the fishing fee. The European Union has concluded this, and the evidence is that the costs of rural society have been many in terms of the marine export companies. In addition, the number of marine eco-efficiency companies has been reduced due to the economics in the fishing grounds. These are basic reasons why it is normal for them to be allowed to share in the fishing fee in order to meet the changes that have taken place in the fishing grounds. The central category has taken no particular position on whether our rural society should be involved in more resources or run by resources so that I can answer that question right now. I especially discussed my rural society, and in many ways I would like to agree with it at the highest level. Then the prime minister that the resource price, if it is applied to more of the country's resources, will go to the state fund. But as for rural society and the hunting costs, there's that kind of connection, i.e. The cost of the economy has been paid to the rural community and to the detriment of the community, including the U.S. due to reduced population size, etc. In this respect, I believe that it is normal for them to become part of it, and the Union has concluded that it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u81	A respectable president. Yeah, we'll discuss the fishing fees. Not everything negative, indeed, is not what we have been working on on on on the job committee. We have received many visitors, many reports, and many have been considered. But there's something else that made me personally, on behalf of my party, the Shock People, has simply been unable to sign on this bill from my whole mind, unfortunately, and would have liked, as it has already happened, that we had given ourselves longer time, despite the fact that in spring was coming at the speed of running it through. But it was taken into account to move it until the fall of the day so that we could take more time to review the matter. A healthy food that benefits everyone, something that would be not just a patch and a dress but something that we could be happy with, all of us. You can never please anyone, but at least at least endeavors to do so with the best possible results. We and what. The director of the trade committee has had good times for the winter, since we have spoken to guests and have welcomed guests. As far as I've seen, our whole committee has been extremely diligent, both in asking questions and in other matters. We've been trying to make an effort. There is, however, a shortage of factors in there. Maybe it's just my ignorance of being a politician. I want everyone to be one family and that we can reach a mutual, excellent conclusion, all as one. But in this case, when discussing the fishing costs, we need to realize that we are talking about the nation's basic work. We have another giant branch, which, fortunately, came to us, our tourist industry. But what we now see in connection with the fishing costs - I'm going to specify what I've found positive. The positive is that, for example, we should do so. try to move it closer in time, that we would stretch out the fishing costs in time, but in the past it would be up to two years apart, perhaps the year of life might have been two years older than when it came to the fishing charge. Some things can happen back then. But there, I would like to say, "You can do better because the next tour will take place, e.g. in the time of the cryoprecipitation, the tour has been renovated. It's just that it's been completely renovated. I guess that's about two months after the fishing trip, something like that. It would be all right for us to move the calculation even closer than it is now. I guess that's going to be in the future, because we want to be technical, and we want to use the computers a little. There's one thing. Then we're also talking about the character discount, raising it. Many efforts have been made to meet small and medium - sized structures. There has been strong will for this on the job board. In many respects, the bill is colored. However, it will be as often as it is popular, especially when it comes to calculating the results of the articles and the remuneration of salary and connections to one another, that these excellent averages are used. Really, it is no matter whether it is a billion - billion - scale factory that receives billions of dollars from the resource every year for profit. It gets exactly the same person's discount as those little things that fight on the banks. Somehow there must be a chance - I don't know better as an invalid than I don't have a problem making money with anything. You got a problem in the back and back, and there's no problem. But when it comes to this subject, it is suddenly beginning to wave something even. I don't think that's appropriate in this case. We're talking about our small and medium-sized structures. We talk about the country, and we'd like to have a professional committee say that we watch things with so - called local glasses. We'd like to respect the small settlements in the country. We want to meet them. But who's so experienced? Yes, we've put this into the bill now that everyone, whether small or big, will benefit from it, but in reality it might lift the little ones. We're going to lower the fish price by 4.3 billion. Who's the best? The big ones. At whose expense? The least I could do. Why should we lower our hunting costs, and why would we say it's very cool here that we're not downing our hunting fees? Because when we draw it later, because we do it like this, in a favorable way for the excel, and because we're moving away, it's going to be a lot better and better on the curve. At times, the delivery will bring more and more. That's what it's supposed to be. We're supposed to get rid of each item, not just all of it in one package. That's amazing. It's basically the biggest mail I had to put on when we were working on this: Why in the world are we taking everyone, large and small, rich and poor, into our article, this wonderful article that we need so much? Why do we pack them all in the same package and then just share with the crowd? Same old, good average? We also talk about the resource regulations of the constitution. What can we do with this resource of ours to ensure from A to O that there is absolutely no doubt in the ocean that it is us, the people, the people of the country, who share this resource? What can we do? Yes, we're almost all, I think, agreed to respect the nation's will. And it's like the highest. The prime minister came in earlier, we want this in the constitution. Despite our 1st claim. the next article will help us to understand why the fish in the sea are linked to the nation's share of fish, and we will have another article that is the legal rights of the constitution, on which it has now begun to play. They're actually fighting to start holding our resource while we're sitting here sleeping and letting it happen. It's a lot of things to look at. Therefore, it would have been extremely successful if we had really been able to cover our fishing fees now, put this in a big context, work it together, and then take a much more consideration - yes, we took a lot of consideration and tried to fix, change, and improve. But the thing that surprised me the most was that suddenly the bill was ready and I realized that I really had nothing to say, nothing but when I suggested one thing and another in my inquiries, but then the bill was suddenly just ready. On the job committee, I asked: "Is it so that when it's a administrative issue, it doesn't matter what the administrative parts have to offer? You're just going out there and we're gonna swallow it? - Just a h.......g...... andbegood? The answer is simple: Yes, that's just the way it is. It's very boring for you to be in a position of government. We don't have much to say. But at least we can. Following our convictions with all our heart. I don't want to minimize the good work being done, and I certainly don't want to try to ruin small and small productions. I'd rather we'd have stuck 48 days for our little boats, as if the U.S. miniboaters were asking for. I'd rather make their way much more. I'd rather build up the settlements, the small towns like the one I come from, little Ólafs fun, which is just ebbing out because instead of having a lot of iceboxes there, and there's a bustling life down at the docks where there were frozen houses and salt houses, no man walks around the streets any more. Today, those who had been driving around the world on their Trillas wait in a home to be brought out in a box, although they are in good health and want to go out on their boat and cake. But we've created such a strange, human - speaking frame around our little settlements and the screen space that it is more painful than tears to see. Imagine places like Ólafsfjord, 1,340 people living there when I moved from there 20 years ago. There are fewer than 800 people there today. Why? Where's your whole life? Where's all this freedom? Where is all the job freedom of the Constitution now? Why have we created such a disgusting system? I say number one, two and three: hunting costs are supposed to be fair. And what is fair? It must be more reasonable to place more money on those who can afford to pay than others without it. Whether it's equal or not, we, and it's up to us, have to try to communicate it so that it comes as fair as it is fair to what is done, according to our ability, according to the size of our economy. It's so funny to listen to all this lobsterism. We get all kinds of people in, who thinks of themselves as they do. There's such contradictions that you don't know if you're coming or going, a respectable president. But it's a pleasure to have your brain working now when you have to make it all together and divide it into the average to try to get something reasonably practical. My wish was that we could do much better to evict each for ourselves, really help those who are needed, and not bring them up to those who have nothing in themselves to do with it. I hope that when we take up this case again, for there'll definitely be a series of big punches between if I know this right, we'll really do it in style and keep following us in the right direction. Because this bill is, as I say, a number of steps in the right direction other than the fact that the fishing costs are dropped by 4.3 billion because of this enormous, temporary connection that I don't think should have been the way it is but completely different. I'm not going to wear it again. But this money doesn't feel that my priorities have been set when I see billions of dollars in it and billions of dollars coming up from the marine resource, and when you know that it's for the money taken out of the common resource of the nation, many of whom, when we see all too expensive, blocks, shopping centers, and whatever, and you know that it's for the money taken out of the common resources of the nation, who even the big thing complains of being all too expensive, it's just rising fishing costs, and they're quite cleanly strangling away from the whole thing. Then I'll just say, "Go on, go on, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Here we are. But next time, I hope we'll unplug this completely different. In case of a moment. The head of the professional cartel continues to fight with the local eyeglasses on our noses, and we will do better. That's my conviction, my religion. So I'll just say, "Keep your glasses up." [[Let's get those glasses up.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for her speech. Maybe I'd like to mention three things. Hv. A senator mentioned day - to - day systems in coastal fishing. If I remember correctly, we agreed on a system like this last summer, 48 days for small boats. I'm pretty sure that's what it is. A senator is pleased with the change that was determined of more things - or just a job committee of all things, even. I'm looking at the head of the professional road committee, and I'm completely satisfied with the employment committee. It is not as if this system is unchangeable, and it will be good to evaluate the results of that change. Then I'd like to swaddle it to the point. A senator spoke of a means and a connection. I couldn't understand why. paritaprevir Sæland Gaand better than that it would be normal to move the application around in time. Somehow, she has to be off-limits. But as I understand criticism, so do I. A candidate makes that statement, and that is, in view of the average fishing industry. Of course, that's complicated, for if we can say so, a fishing business would pay income tax from its individualised business. They pay insurance. But then they pay the resource fees that promote laws other than traditional taxation in that it also includes the cost of access to the resource and a certain percentage of the resource resources. It's a variety of fleas. We have 1,340 ships fishing. We have a $2,400,2500 fishing permit. This is an enormous variety. It's hard to determine a average price like that. It is being tried to communicate specifically with small and medium-sized structures, both in the highest bill. A minister and with the changes made by the majority of the committee to meet these views. But let me pray. A senator to explain to me what her view is about to change this release connection? Does she see special pressures on income taxes rather than on resource bills?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u83	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, the answer. Yeah, it's 48 days. But I completely forgot the main issue about 48 days, it's that men can decide for themselves when they go these 48 days to get the water, they're not tied to a set day, even though everything is in cold water and in steak, that they get their freedoms completely, they can choose their own days. That's very pretty to me. I just want to hand-fish free and think they're the greatest fishing and nothing at all. For the extraction, it is simply that, as I see it, and then I'm talking about the resource tax, not the income tax, no matter whether it was 2,000 or 3,000 or 7,000 or 7,000 boats or makings that are involved, we'd have brought this stress to the tax manager, who has not been able to include it, just in terms of income taxation, like 200,000 different results on tax stress, but he might as well be making quite different pressures in terms of hunting costs, because of getting involved in his business account every year. It must naturally connect the recovery to the accounts of each projection. And I reiterate at the highest. Prime Minister, I'm not talking about the income tax, I'm talking about the resource tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I get it, then. A senator sees it so that the resource price would be submitted in a similar way to a income tax. If I know this correctly, it was referred to as a report that the idea of taking up a special stress on income tax in the form of an individual resource tax. However, the bill here adds up the limit at the fishing fee now. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because she spoke of the high price. This is a provision of a 33% resource charge per the source specified in the bill. What does she see in it? Would she like to see a higher currency rate or simply go right over to a change that would be some kind of special application tax? And then I'd like to ask about my big hobby first. A senator mentioned a change in records, and we meet together regularly and discuss them: Tell them why. The senator did not need us to finish the work of getting together as well as we can on the terms of the national partnership of resources in a constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u85	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister. Gonna start with the constitution. Yes, this great control group, the group we've been working on, could just take this law out of parentheses and we could, yes, we could accept it as soon as possible. In terms of the demolition, once again, I simply can't see anything different from this: we're supposed to take each of the produce, the income tax, or not the income tax, and cut off the bait. I'm not quite smart enough to be able to go to that bait analysis here and now, I don't know how to deal with it. All I know is what I've seen right now, and I see the injustice of taking the average of a wealthy leviator to a conflict. And 33%? Is that enough or should you raise it and such? Well, let's just say that a project that's paying off maybe 20 or 15 billion to profit each year, or 10 billion or whatever it is, is a project that really can afford to pay us for the use of the resource while others may not. I don't think this 33% is a sacred number in this regard. Knowing the tax reductions and revenues and all that system apart and together would be very successful, I'd think, to lure them into this system we're living at today's place in connection with the seabed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u86	Mr. President. Let us bear in mind that last week, when a commission bill was taken out, the government also decided, on the same week, regarding the priorities of the government, to postpone their promises to the elderly and the desperate. At the same time, the cost of fishing is being reduced to 5 billion. These are facts, this has been shown by the Committee meeting. Everyone understands the problems of smaller designs, and I think everyone wants to meet them. However, fishing costs are being dropped on the entire article, so the greatest profit is actually large. I don't think that originally was the point of going that way. I just can't believe it. But I have serious doubts about this as the right way. There's a lot at the highest. The prime minister I would like to thank for being here in the hall agrees. We agree on resource regulations in the constitution. We certainly want to receive resources regulations in a constitution. We agree, and I don't believe it but that we can both be very proud of Icelandic fishing roads. He's evolved well, he's exemplary. There is much to consider as we consider what changes that have caused him to become so powerful. It's a free exposé, it's the saying system, and then it's this tremendously powerful side work road that's been through the sceptre companies. We agree on this, and we agreed on temporary hunting rights, temporary rights. There are eight groups here today, and it has been noted in the discussion that there are seven groups that the right to hunt should be temporary. There is one group that wants to have future rights, and that's the Independence Party. All others want temporary rights in one way or another. As a result, we agree with the prime minister. After all the noise that has been over, I am convinced that there is a particular thread that I can feel to make real peace. It is a song now looking for certain factors to contribute to reconciliation. Why do I say that? Yes, because of the reconciliation committee - and then I may find out what my prime minister and I disagree. From her speech yesterday, it is clear that she disagrees that the water should be at peace. I'm starting to realize that right now. Perhaps I can be criticized for the fact that at a time when I was a seafaring minister, I used a parapolitic commission for remuneration in the seaside. I had to fight a little bit with the Independence Party that the government was out of the commission. I took advantage of the fact that all classes had their own agents. This meant that the government groups had other representatives. Unfortunately, it all went as it went. But in spite of this new government, which has soon been ruling for a year, and despite the opening part of the government covenant, the reconciliation is not being sought. That's what I think is such a sin. That's why I must ask the highest. Prime Minister. The first question: Why was it not an effort to make peace? There is not a great need to be hasty and to try to save something that is going to happen. It is not necessarily necessary to push through a five billion reduction in fishing costs. It is not an urgent need. The environment is very good and efficient for the fishing route, not just a drop in oil charge and a decline in the quality of the water supply but also the fact that the future in the fishing road will always be higher, in recent years, an increase of 101.715%. It is all the conditions for the seabed to breathe a little, go with the political, because all classes have done good about the seabed. Left groups and right groups have made big decisions that have had enormous significance for the fishing work. I believe in Prime Minister, I still have it. I have not wavered in my view that the prime minister is a person who can lead to certain compromises, firm reconciliation. Not only with the government groups to hold the government together but also with the government. That's why I want to ask the highest. The prime minister is to see if she feels that it is a good way to meet when a secular minister has not even spoken to the opposition to the seating of these bills that have been submitted. There was no consultation with the government, nothing. There was a meeting campaign across the country, but there was no consultation with the government. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What is the urgency of each situation? This is the second question. The first question was the reconciliation, why was it not tried, and what is the matter? I need to understand that because it is no big deal for the government to push a case aside and to examine it very closely when it becomes a matter of government support. It's the energy package. It's supposed to be pushed aside, examined a little more. Fine if you want to take a closer look. The same is true of this matter. You are afraid that in the third energy package there may be some state-of-the-art hall, which is a complete bullshit, but at the same time the same group does not care about what is happening with the national community, that there is a possibility that people are being undermined. Why do I say that? Yes, because the resource committee in 2000 made that clear. The resource committee is quoted in the bill and appealed to that conclusion. The results of the resource committee were clear: Temporary agreements are key to ensuring and highlighting the national context and the national contribution of the resource. That is why I must ask: Is it not a powerful reason for the righteous nerve of the green left - eyed green nerve of the left green, to stop to keep the very point where it might have the right to feed the resource? I'd like to underscore that I agree with the resource policy. We need to knock it through. But that alone is not enough. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister on time, and that's the third question. Yesterday, members of the Independence Party were made very clear, and it was revealed by the leading member of the Independence Party in the sea that he considered this to be an indefinite right. The only group, as I could see, that looks so good. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister, with this bill, is paying for the future fishing rights. Are these prime minister's long - term rights, for the hunting fees? Could the prime minister accept what the 1st verse says? in our proposal for government opposition that fishing costs are temporary use of the fish resources? Can the prime minister intend to accept only that piece of chalice to ensure that we protect the nation's resources, which is our share of all of us? We're not talking about overthrowing the system. We're proud of the fishing road. I don't want to overthrow the system, but it's key that we try to focus on what we might be able to negotiate and agree and we've talked about over the years. It's time for the contracts. We're not suggesting one or no auction or market route, we're not talking about reassignment, we're even, and we can be criticized for it, using the same terms as the government talks about. Just to achieve this one goal, to set aside the contracts for the nation, for all of us. So I ask the highest. A minister and the answer are of utmost importance: Do ministers consider this to be timeless? Is the way the government operates untimely, as the Independence Party sees? I'd like that to be answered. These are some questions. What's the hurry? Why can't we keep it, at least in that way, as Þorláksson H.. We're not against it. Try to meet all the smallest structures with this discount, even if it is controversial, but keep the large package, the pay part, and try to negotiate with that factor. Why is that not tried? I'm the highest. Prime Minister, of whom we are very proud, especially now that we are with the Women's Conference in our magnificent music and conferences. I believe that the prime minister wants to make peace in his heart. That is why I feel sorry for the fact that a prime minister did not put it into the government when the bill was asked to extend an act of reconciliation to the government's opposition on this matter. [[The president calls.]] It breaks my heart. I find it sad, and I find it sad to see that the government is knocking through a bill with potentially dramatic results.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u87	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying that over the years it's been very difficult to make up for things related to the seaways. Hv. A senator remembers it as well as I did when she was in a government stand in 2012 and strongly opposed the fishing bill that was then being discussed by the government I was in then and then told them that this was really a global case, to make the fishing fees, such as fishing taxes. I want to celebrate. A senator and I have moved closer to the fact that it is normal for the project to pay for the use of the resource, since that certainly wasn't the same at the World Council in 2012 when we proposed the general fishing fee and the special fishing fee. If those laws had remained in force and were still in force, they would be collecting 5 billion of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u88	Way too much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u89	It would be considerably lower than it would be with this bill because it is here trying to achieve a reasonable, transparent system of collecting hunting fees. But I do understand why. A senator puts forth an effort to have a talk. I know she appointed a commission in her time as a marine eco-efficiency minister. It was, of course, debate at that time. A senator remembers well. I'd like to say, though, that here was a case of the change in spring fishing costs that we pulled back and pulled back because we thought it was too little time. Since this bill was presented, they have been given considerable publicity on the committee. As far as I know, 11 meetings have been held here and 100 people I'd think were a regular therapy. Hv. A senator named here and criticized the reduction in hunting fees. I must tell her, if she agrees with her words from last year when she said that she thought it would be normal to bring the pressure of the price closer in time, that is. A senator also agrees with me and others that it is normal to extend the charges and to keep the application as close as possible in time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can't believe we're doing what we're doing. A senator would agree. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u90	The president would like to remind the speakers to give a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u91	I'm sorry, Mr. President. That was a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u92	Mr. President. It has just been observed at a meeting of the Committee that the price is very adverse. No matter what a person may say, it depends on political authority at any time. The leaders are always subject to political authority and will each time. We agree to move it closer in time, but that does not mean hiding behind the fact that this reduction is just because of it. It's not like that. I want to point again to the Indriði H. of Þorláksson. She is worth reading in this context. So it's all just cut one. I am, however, and have always been, in the belief that the fish resources are the share of the nation and that they are to be cleared for access to that resource. But I do believe that politics should not decide what the price is. It's supposed to be the market, just in order to avoid being able to control it accurately, as they are doing now, how they dress the prices. I still ask, and I thought it was a sad answer to the reconciliation: Why, both in terms of the first and second bill, was not even contacted by the government? Not even in spring, not in the fall. Nothing has been done to make real peace. I ask: Is it that way to agree with a one - side approach that the prime minister would like to make? Will it be her inheritance to leave this behind so as not to have stopped the matter, not to resort to reconciliation? It takes a political fight, I know it, with a government team. But it is worth it in the long run. I want to reiterate my question, it's extremely important, about premature rights. Does the prime minister consider this to be an untimely right or what does it consider to be?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u93	Mr. President. Naturally, it is not possible to have a natural connivable treatment as an out - of - line practice. I must reiterate that here was abandoned from running a case at the speed of spring, not being normal, and a new bill submitted that has received completely normal contingency, which I think we can agree that is a normal channel for a management bill. Hv. A senator asks me if I think the warrants are permanent. Of course not! We have a fishing law that we both know, which shows that the resource belongs to the nation, which means that the Allied and Lawgiver at any given time can decide which way it is distributed. [[Up front.]] [["How long...?"]] [[How long?]] [[Up front.]] I do not agree, however. A senator proposes and is expected to be the input of the conversion proposal to the fishing bill, although she would rather be at home as a change in the fish - fishing system law. Hv. A senator speaks for it and wants to see a clean fishing route and an auction on markets. True, it's not stated in the adjustment process, I just don't know why it's not stated. But I've been listening for their presentation. Councilmen here have spoken and they speak for this market route that I believe could lead to increased integration in the marine waters, thus contradicting the stated view that we want to maintain certain cohesion policies in the system. Of course, the evidence is not permanent, nor can it be understood any of the laws on fish - control systems. Although we do not want to go that way. This does not mean that we are making known that our sources are permanent. But I must be quick to remind you about the reconciliation committee as a matter of course. A senator's appointment as Minister was that not all agreed that it was a genuine reconciliation committee. [[The president calls.]] The chairman of this committee chose to appear and speak specifically of my movement as an opponent of the social change in fishing waters, which I didn't think was a great deal of agreeing on the seabed, to be honest, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u94	Mr. President. However, it does not mean running away from your own words, whether it be representative of the Left Green Committee or here. It has been observed that the party wants the terms of the contracts, and I think exactly that Prime Minister's words now apply to the notion that this is a temporary fishing warrant is a major matter. It's a big deal, and it calls for a huge publicity for the Committee, and I'd like this to be discussed with the committee. On the one hand, there is one group that views this as non-term fishing grounds, which puts them in a state of presupergence for the development, and then there is a temporary fishing warrant, and a prime minister could not say for any length of time. This calls for much discussion on the committee. I wonder again at this, in fact, the weak will and vision of prime minister seeking peace in a fishing road. I just don't understand why it was so specific, before the bill was submitted, that I wouldn't talk to the government. In fact, Prime Minister did not answer why this matter is not being worked in harmony with the government covenant, which requires further consultation, increased conversation, trying to promote the ways and respect of the council. On the contrary, this is the case, bearing evidence that it is being taken in the opposite direction. That even happens. On the left green is the responsibility of the Independence Party how it is pushed through the government. As soon as I thank the prime minister for the answers, they call for a lot of discussion. I call for this matter to enter the committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter very much for her speech. Hv. Since a senator was a seafaring minister, he knows the group of lawsuits that are here considerably better than the one mentioned here. I'm asking why. A senator who may well travel through every corner of the country and visit all of its deportations: Is that so, as there has been an analysis of the power of speeches? The members of the council, all of the country's productions, small, mediumsized, and large, are so inconspicuous that it will all be resolved, if not completely agreed to the highest proposals. A seafaring minister and now a greater part of the employment committee's proposal to reduce the cost of fishing to more billion? I'd also like to ask if there is such a danger for the settlements of the country. Holy shit. A senator after another has come up here and informed us that the settlements will simply fall apart if these proposals cannot be agreed to by the minister and the majority of the employment committees. I'd appreciate it if I did. A senator could answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u96	Mr. President. Happily, that is the way it is, and it is such an amazing pleasure to go through the country, to go to work, and to develop in many parts of the country, and to see both these great investments, this great organization, and the great wealth that is taking place around the country. That's even. ... becauseof a good system. Fishing has not resulted in compression, so it is said. Compulsion began long before the fishing fees were applied. Let us remember, too. This is the first and last consequence of the system as such. There is a search for all ways to achieve the most practicality, and as a result, technological knowledge and other factors have been contributing to the compression of the marine soil. Of course it isn't, and that's why I felt so sad to experience the lack of ambition that happened at the highest level. Prime Minister. I'm not used to it. She has a vision. She wants to take us all on. But the lack of ambition involves not taking the time and the breath. If any article can do that in Iceland, it's the fishing road today because of a fall in the oil prices, because of the profit of the past few years, which is much higher than in any other industry. Now, circumstances allow us to stop and try to make peace, showing that it is the real content of the Law covenant. I feel that the treaty of the Treaty has established a National Museum, and it has not even been a year since that government was formed. If anyone is willing to agree in this article, that is right now. Now is the time, as said in a beautiful way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. For an informative answer, a senator may have to move on, perhaps on a bit. Just over a year ago, on October 19, 2017, he wrote the highest. Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter making an appointment. I'm going to read this entry she writes on social services, by permission of the president. There she writes. ▪ These elections are about us blowing up our parishes in Iceland and building up our community for the future. This approach can be financed in a responsible and reasonable way. She says even.Unable to connect to POP ◯ We can raise the supply-related fishing costs on the project and ensure the revenue for the use of other resources.◯ Because of these words of Katrín just over a year ago, when it was. A senator was a seafaring minister, so I'd like to ask you a question. A senator after what I asked earlier: Has the landscape been potentially changing a lot this year? Could it be that from 19 October 2017, the environment employed today as well as the status of the rural areas, small, medium - sized, and large productions, has greatly changed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u98	V.E.G. President. Swimming? Yeah. In some respects it has changed, and it has changed for the better. Today's environment is better for the seaside than it is a year ago if we take the dot position, gang position, oil prices, and flasks. At least the gang has improved, and we can see that now there's a lot more than a good match, so the situation hasn't gotten worse. There is no need for the government to say that we need to come to the rescue. Now, there is all the circumstances to breathe slowly, saying, "Let's go over this thing, let's try to make peace. We need to be tested in the position of government. Do you mean anything by this reconciliation? There's something we need to set up against the wall and say, "Where do you want to go?" We have a clue to this temporary agreement. Those in charge have been trying to mislead the discussion, saying: "It's an auction, it's a marketing or something. It's not like that. We're just saying, join us in making time for the contracts. We're not changing anything else. Then we're making a contribution, and I think we can always find a point on how we can build up on the land and push innovation and development, etc. A lip. If there has ever been a situation in which to settle matters, it is now. These are ideal conditions. It is a shame to see the government allow this situation to float away, not resort to it. It's a sin with this foreman who's at the government's table. I want to correct: There's always some in my heart. Of course, that is the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u99	Mr. President. From the moment I remember, there has been one way or another in Icelandic politics. I remember the evacuation of the weekend and its conflicts at the beginning of the '70s and the entourage following it, as they sought to strengthen the seas throughout the country, with massive bazaar trades. I remember constantly worrying about their products. I remember accusations that they had some of the accounting pieces to show survival in the worst light of such large companies with both tugs and fish industry could then bring profits between these companies by means of a wide variety of methods. I also remember it took Icelanders about ten years of walking so close to this important resource that if not completely destroyed, it had to be taken into consideration. The code system had arrived in 1983. Then, on the basis of the three preceding fishing experience, certain fishing ships were given omens, proving to be an enormous quantity of value, which was thus given to a limited number. Immediately, the foundation was laid for some kind of domain structure in Icelandic fishing soil. In 1990, when the fish - control laws were passed, the cost of quanan was multiplied at the start of a free market, the sale of fish markets began to become free. They began selling fish to one another in the ocean and then making books that owned this fishing rights and mortgages and taking loans into Icelandic society. There was a new class of rich people who, some of them, became adventurously attached to this trade, with all the consequences for Icelandic society, increased class distinctions, and higher real estate prices in the capital area, the hurtes of those who were left with pain and desolation in places that may have lived for centuries in having one of the richest fishing grounds of the world just outside the park, but now all of a sudden were not allowed to take advantage of them. In fact, in the United States, the market's laws paid for fishing ever since, unless they have paid this price to the owners of the resource, the nation, and its common funds, or to the communities that had used this resource for centuries, they have paid one another that price. As we know, much effort was being made in the article with the related economy. The process has greatly improved, and so these measures, painful and often unjust, have provided a measure of prosperity for an Icelandic society in general. Mr. President. As I mentioned at the beginning of my talk, as long as I can remember, there has been a debate about the Icelandic seabed. These issues are because a large number of people in the country feel that the quality was very wrong there. The system always rewards the great and powerful, and it makes it very difficult for the recruits to get their ground laid. Does this have to be this way? Are such basic ways a nation's natural cohesive fish, or are they unnatural? Do they tend to poison the atmosphere in the community in general, even promoting the feeling that justice can never pay in the community and prosperity must always be based on wrongs and wrongs? Is it not worth the effort to find a way of greater peace and also to bring prosperity to the people of the land? It has sometimes occurred to me to imagine how such an arrangement had become available in the most active industry of my life, which is a book version and fiction. My father, Thor Vilhjálmsson, worked as a writer, and perhaps in 1983 he received a very good greeting to fiction. I would have inherited that saying, and then I would add to it by writing a few books that I've written over the years. Other writers, and perhaps especially young writers, would have to pay me so much for my right to write fiction, write novels, and post them on the market, and then live on selling access to the resources available to Icelandic readers. Indeed, it would be an unfair and unscrupulous arrangement that no one would think of setting up in the existing democracies of the day. I think, Mr. President, that this problem may be solved by some kind of implementation of markets, as there is an offer of principle when the public needs to share a limited access to certain quality, e.g. Popularly desirable major projects, frequency ranges, or some kind of special cover. We often hear about the sustainable use of Icelandic fishing. When we talk about sustainability, we must always consider three factors that all of us need to be equally valid. It's the environmental, the economic, the social. In other words, the eating system was an attempt to fire environmental air under our fishing grounds. A lot of overfishing then with Icelanders who certainly won over. When the deed was accepted, the economic support was applied to the system. However, the third support, as important as the community support, has been left to the mind. The revolution of the fishing system has resulted in much social chaos. This revolution has resulted in enormous difficulties for marine regions in many parts of the world. If we were to take some form of an outing, we might be reaching three goals: to increase the share of this country's resources that we use in Iceland. We'd be making it easier to recruit in this article by reducing a significant amount of labour fee. And we'd be making a decision on how much money we'd pay for the political right to hunt and the article ourselves. As a result, it is totally unnatural for politicians to be picking on such things. The Union, the Piratars, restoration, and group of the people suggest that the case be dismissed and, at the same time, assumed that existing laws will be extended and carried out until the end of 2019 C.E. Time will then be used to achieve better suggestions, which are better equipped to create peace in society. As a precaution, the Union, the Pirates, and Reunion provide adjustments in terms of temporarily creating a section division and that, beginning on January 1, 2019, the Fish Room is to be divided into a task force within each and one species into 20 equal to a temporary segment. Then the first part shall continue for one year, another thing for two years, and so on. Starting on January 1, 2020, the 5% Member States in each species should be reassigned annually to 20 years. In other words, 5% of the remuneration departments are to be produced, and 20% has been discussed. In this picture, we will reflect on other similar invitations recently sent to the Faeroe Islands that have seemed to have hoped again. The road might be spent to reduce fishing costs and to the Slurpee Fund of rural society or to the construction fund. In my opinion, the way out would be to increase justice in the distribution of the nation's share as well as to improve the harmony in the land of this fundamental work, which is totally unnatural to see such conflict as it actually is. It would make it easier for new ones to get a course in this article, and as mentioned earlier, it would bring the article to themselves what constitutes an appropriate price for authority. The way out is actually enjoying an invitation amongst at least Four of the eight categories now held at the General Assembly, which are in the spirit of the same policy as the majority of the nation's members. Pirata's policy says, with permission from the President: The Icelandic government, the owner of the resource, shall provide market rents to the open market and let the rent run into a state fund, and all the finals of the sale shall be public information. The same is true of restoration, with the permission of the president: ▪ Instead of hunting fees, there will be a set part of the quatane market each year. This will provide a fair market link for access to the resource and will permanently cover the sector. The route encourages practical management and maximum efficiency in the long run. Alternatively, a route will be opened for recent recruitment.◯ The Conspiracy has spoken for the longest of all classes, and even under its direction, it says that the majority of them have been acting in such a way.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Implementing retails on equal terms to moderate time in a transparent manner. New fish stocks and breakfasts should immediately be exported. In the direction of the left movement, a green bid is as follows: It is also a temporary arrangement for allowing, and in part, it must be linked to the structure and fishing practices, and in part to the auction, in part to the areas of the country and rural areas, and to the commands to define ways for distribution. Mr. President. This is a case involving the entire population. I'm afraid there has been insufficient debate over the whole community on this matter, since it was not put into consultations, and thus it did not encourage general discussion of the matter among the common people. However, there have already been some significant sources of criticism that we must listen to as we express ourselves. In this case, I specifically mention, as many others have mentioned before, the Indriði H. Þorláksson economist, which has expressed itself in a very direct way on this bill in an article published in the core of the days. I would like to mention in particular one of his criticisms, which more people have, in fact, agreed on and on to an old-fashioned problem when it comes to cohesive fishing and processing in the books of large and powerful fishing companies. In Indriði, the country's rural development and development are closely owned by the same parties, and a large portion of Icelandic fish products are also owned by fish importers. This partnership makes it possible to move the slides from hunting to either the process or the buyers in a linked business. Therefore, the assessment of total fish fishing can not be based on alone but on the process taken into account, as in the 2012 Law, at the highest level. The prime minister left a good time earlier. It should be noted that no company that had only income from the industry paid for fishing fees. As a result, Indriði, including her, says this route. Based on the fact that many women are involved in fishing and critical in Indriði. The Contestance Commission also made a serious comment in its review, with the permission of a president: However, unchanged laws provided by the current bill will lead to discrimination in the calculation of the fish markets in the integrated outputs and other sources. In view of the above, the Contestance Commission wants to direct them to the employment committee to respond to the misdemeaning shown in the publication of the bill processing procedure before it becomes legal. So you could continue to count, Mr. President, but I'll stop here for a while. But I would finally like to quote the conclusion of the above - mentioned article, The H. of Þorláksson, by permission of a president: It is unacceptable that the nation will be paid only for the use of its resources, almost enough charity to pay the cost of not being destroyed by the resource, but by means of practical means. At the return of the bill, many viewed this point as a service to the interests of counterfeiters, whose hope was to be corrected in the council. With the forward opinion of a professional employer, it is clear that she has not learned anything from her scandalism. We are struck blindly by the fact that the role of the Generals is not to protect public interest but to take care of special interests. The aimless false reasoning of contemporary stress is no excuse for this and the interests of small productions could have been guaranteed without also bringing big-tempered reformers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u100	Mr. President. I think it right, since I was specifically asked to have a conversation with a government official, to use the time I have here in a house to do so. I'd like to ask you what. A senator - except for how much I enjoyed listening to him discuss fiction. I'm not gonna ask you about it. I'd like to ask you two questions. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned the Executing experience. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion that this experience has been given in view of the fact that it is not offering fish for the jurisdiction of the Faeroe Beings but only nonfiction fish. Does he feel that no newcomers have added to the groups who fished the resource through the invitation? Does he believe that such a system in Iceland would not be such a risk as an increased compression, as the Faeroe Islands have been discussing since the arrival? I'm pretty sure it's from a talk or something. A senator and, in fact, also a speech of some. paritaprevir The Katrín of Gunnarsdóttir to the adjustment proposed here, which is not said to be about tenders, revolves around markets, and may be more comfortable at home as a change to the fish - fishing system law, though it's always fun to make a suggestion to other bills. Then I'd like to ask. A senator, who specifically asked about the 2012 law, where everyone calculated a sledge in hunting and 80% of the calculated roll in hunting would be included in the algorithm of the special fishing fee: Would he prefer to continue that system, as well as taking into account the higher sector's budget of interest in the laws they were originally? I believe it is very important that we compare them with the 2012 law, which my unit and my bad. A senator puts together this bill and how it comes out differently. I think it would be very interesting for the conference at the Senate Hall to have that comparison made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u101	Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answers. She asked about the Faeroe Islands and, on the other hand, the result of the 2012 law compared to this one. So I'll answer that question before I know that there have been some numbers about it, but we're going over them, and I'm not ready to take a stand on them. For deliveries and risk of compression, at least A very good price. Entries have received a very good price in their exports. We've heard criticism from the Faeroe Islands, but I think there's always a reason to expect it. It would be a strange developer who didn't have to pay for the access to the resource or just wash over himself. We know that. We have also learned to be balanced in what we learn from the experience of counterfeiters. Despite the fact that builders may be inclined to do things, this is not a simple measure of survival. I think the Faeroes have so far had a very good experience in these efforts and have a strong desire to continue them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Hv. A senator says the numbers are out of order, i.e. The comparison to 2012 and the bill presented here. But I wasn't necessarily asking about it. I was asking about the principles, whether they were. A senator would have been more satisfied that these principles remained in view, no matter what numbers would come out of it. On the other hand, I think it would be useful to get these numbers forward to get a comparison like that. Hv. In his speech, a senator mentioned the importance of being guided by the ideologies of sustainable development. He specifically mentioned the social effects that I think we should have. A senator will agree that it is important to keep in mind. So I think that these three groups actually offer an auction. They are offering an auction route that is linked to parts of the country or rural areas, depending on how they are affected. Senators speaking? Or is there a way to obtain the highest price for the resource? Do we not take the risk of sacrificing certain social influences at the same time? That's what I'd like to hear. The senator will comment. This figure assumes that all labors will be distributed in this way, so they are likely to replace parentheses, or they are actually throwing away anything called cohesion or such. Has a what? A senator's concern about such social influences?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u103	Thank you very much. Prime Minister for Yes, I feel that there is good reason to be concerned about the social impact this will produce. When we come to these matters, we must always keep in mind how they deal with those communities. I believe, as I was trying to trace in this small historical overview of my speech, that over the years, these communities were not sufficiently concerned with how the severe transformation and changes in the fishing system affected them. I think it is entirely in our suggestions that we assume that the settlements, the delicate regions of many parts of the country that have survived the sea through the ages, will enjoy these actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. In many ways, there is a fine talk for a member of the body. I made a special decision that made it possible for him to start the eater system in 1983 to say that it had been assigned to a limited quality, and that all who had received distribution had made money. It wasn't. The reason for this change is that people were forbidden to come to sea in the same way that they did. As a result, people lost their freedom to run their businesses. And first, nice and rough. A senator named here a great poet, his father, if it had agreed on the same terms and conditions. A senator would have inherited such rights. True, he is an inheritance of fiction, and he does so well. I'm not sure there would have been a lot of poets left in the country in 1983 if this system had been installed and they were forbidden to write as many books or as many poets as they did then. Is that what I'm thinking right next to you. A member of the council that there is no impairment if there are limits to how much you can produce? That's what they did in 1983. That is why the design was self-reflecting, it fell upon a bunch of settlements, and there was a compromise. Similarly, fiction in Iceland would have been replaced, the number would have been reduced because they could not have written as much as they otherwise would have. I see here that part of facing this problem is inside the motions of the government opposition, or condition. A senator supports, the ideas of the built-in funds of the country. I would've liked to hear what it's like. A senator sees the resources that should flow there and who should actually enjoy the good things that will be put into the same fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u105	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A sea chief minister for his good answer. It is true that these were limited quality given there. What we're always criticizing is access to the resource, and then it began to buy and sell, and it was not allowed to slip away. In other words, it was distributed free of charge. Regarding the potential building fund in the country and how to spend the funds that might be collected there, it can be thought of in countless ways. It doesn't necessarily have to be building in the country's original construction roads that we've developed here for centuries but that we can imagine all kinds of innovations, especially major transport initiatives, both natural transportation and computer connections, so that people can live anywhere and work at anything. I think it's basic to build up the country to try to destabilize the less-changing sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u106	A respectable president. I think this call is just a clearer approach to how we're going to build better communities all over the country on the basis of the collected fishing costs. We have the same transport plan, we have a communication program, etc. in which structure is involved. I noticed why. A senator mentioned earlier that a general discussion of the matter had not been encouraged and that was part of a poor presentation. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Does he know that a government once sent a minister of water outlets through the country and that he had discussions with the people living in the coastal region at 11 meetings attended by 600 people, and all of whom were encouraged to participate in the treatment of the matter at the time of the council? I don't know any other precedent. I'm asking why. The senator's thoughts on it and the material, whether we can agree that this is part of a public presentation for the public in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u107	A respectable president. Thank you very much. High school minister later answers. I'll agree to the highest. In a practical way, a minister of the sea was able to keep meetings in many parts of the country and introduce his views to those attending their meetings. I don't want to take it off the top. Minister. But that does not change the fact that the matter was out of the question. In itself, there is nothing I can do about it. Nor does it make any difference that the matter could have been more discussed in the community, which has recently been on fire by discussions about matters that may not have occurred at one assembly in February, i.e. The third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u108	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson managed to give a 20 - minute talk almost without referring to the bill under discussion. But he did just for the last few minutes. Of course, the senator was discussing the laws on the control of fishing, how he wanted to be different. I'll take part in that discussion. I've wondered a lot about this auction or auction route that men would like to talk about in the United States and equalize with justice, equality. That's why I want to ask you why. The senator: Does he believe that the government is now able to issue the resources that have been sold and sold for many years and that it is now available for sale? Do the senator know why it was in 1983 that the complicated view of the distribution required that they receive a fishing experience? Can he imagine that it was on the basis of existing constitution that those who came to the sea, long before the Lawgiver thought it was a national partnership, whatever this means - that the rights were not protected by the Constitution? The sea was drawn long before even the government was created, but rather the sea. Senator that the fishing court is not covered? So you can just come and say, "Hey, this is ours. Like this is a house we have here. Of course we have Iceland, we own the tickets, we have the money, but this isn't like having a house and rent or selling it. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator believe that it can be cashed out and offered out?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. [[Up front.]] No, I don't think there's any way you can tear this off and then you can make it up like that. It needs to be a long way of dealing with it. I think we need to look for a way to wind off the system that's been cooking here ever since 1983 or 1990, depending on what we're doing. This system has crushed the dissatisfaction of a very large part of the nation, and much of the nation will never be satisfied with it. I think it's a lot healthier to get the warrants in that sort of business. Hv. A senator said that they received the island that came to sea, which was on the edge of the water. A senator understands that it had been members who had come from the sea since 930 C.E. But it is not. These were men who had attended the sea since 1980,1983. It was a three-year fishing experience, and those who were so unfortunate that outside of the hunting experience did not have access to the resource as well as to those who later entered the article and had to pay for the purpose of the resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u110	V.E.G. President. At any rate, it is good to know that it will not be pulled away from the materials with a single pen mark. That's why. A senator would likely talk about some kind of expiration route, 20 years or even more. But I'm interested in knowing how to invite this bidder, the fishing warrants. Are you sure it's just for the highest bidder? If there's one of the highest bidders, do you think there'll be some kind of justice? Who would think that they could offer something other than the largest of their projects? What recent intervention will be involved? I can't picture anything like a auction or an auction, at least not to the highest bidder. If they're going to do this with regional reasons and a lower price and something like that, they're probably not going to get a lot of resources. [[The president calls.]] To me, it's all very confusing. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u111	A respectable president. It's very confusing. It's a very confusing system. The reality is confusing. Hv. A senator asks me how to act such ostensibly, so I don't know anything about it. I have no idea. I don't know how to plan for the price of fish. It is not my job to know, or to lie down in certain details, in this process. Our task here is to shape a general policy, which, in turn, we get the best partners to achieve details. I think we have enough knowledge in this country to do that. It is certainly important that in this process everything be taken care of for the welfare of sea and country, but justice and reasonableness must also be exercised. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u112	Mr. President. It speaks a lot of fighting projects, talking of the government being involved with this hunting bill of its own to agree to reduce the cost of small fishing. Mr. President. That's not exactly what they're doing. Here, do the best with the best. There is not a system that specifically supports small and medium-sized structures. It's an illusion. It's also spoken of here, especially the highest. A seafaring minister, that wide consultations have taken place, in view of the highest. A minister went and visited 11 different places around the country, and spoke to the shopkeeper. But how extensive was the consultation with the owners of the resources we deal with here, the people of the country? Where did it go? The bill has been highly critical, e.g. among sailors who know exactly what it is because they watch that the bill may reduce their income. They know what the situation is. They know how the purchases happen on the island. Þorláksson, economist, former head of state tax and former advisory of the then financial and economic minister, Sigfússon J, writes on the hunting bill of the Karinhl Government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir on the NGC. When the matter was far from strangers, for a time he worked west at the Einar vow of the godfather's Guðfinnsson, mostly with the barnacles who set up the fish of the freezer. This was done in Indriði before he started economic studies. Why am I discussing it from the public speaker's office? Yes, because I think this article is not only useful to the members of the council here on fishing costs but directly necessary before they vote on the matter next week. Many have quoted Indriði's words, but because of its importance, I believe this article is on this matter -- I know that members of Congress are busy at all level - I have decided to read it before the council, as well as for those who are observing the council's work on the Senate, but it will be about a few thousand people. Starting reading, with President's permission: Our last team was trying to reduce the number of hunting fees through the council. Got this experiment slowly dead after being unveiled. However, in recent years, the current fishing laws are so depending on their use to restore the owners of the fishing industry to the insignificance of the resource industry, which the nation obtained by the Treaty on the cost of hunting, that change in them was inevitable. Therefore, the declaration of the law was waiting with some anticipation. In that bill to legalize fishing costs, there are many benefits. There is a return to the thought that the role of the law is to define the part of the value in the fishing route and to calculate its share. The bill, although not faultless, develops a way for this, which is a great improvement from the past. The bill, however, does not answer the question of what is the legitimate claim for profit from the resource. Instead, there is a formula based on the average of the past few years, a sort of ◯status quotο in that subject. They lack the will, the ability, or the courage to address the big question in this matter, i.e. What claim does the nation have to profit from their own resources? However, the bill, if the law becomes available, can create a basis for a grammatical discussion about that question instead of karap about technical cocking shit, as it has been. The bill means that after paying the resources, including a natural amount of money for financial support, the target is to find money that can be attributed to the use of the fish resource. This is a requirement for counting the resource costs. This was ignored by the first change in the 2012 law under the pretext that it was too complicated. Instead, the founding of hunting fees was based on accounting, which depends on financial foam entries and is shaped by stakeholders. Thus, the fishing rate was reduced until the beast turned against its Creator and prosperity struck him. It required changes, resulting in panic at the beginning of the summer. Although the bill is based on the same thought as the 2012 Law, it sets aside a number of factors. First, a realistic assessment of the parts of a fishing field or of fish trade because of lack of markets and property has been made. Second, there are variations in how the financial cost is found or estimated. Third, the difference between the production and the owner of the resource. Each of these points will be discussed below. Resources are created when access to resource use is limited, e.g. natural, such as in activation of water spills, or by laws such as the distribution of fishing warrants. With unregistered access to resources and perfect competition, resources do not form. Almost every fishing industry in the country is owned by deforestation, vice versa, or fishing, and is owned by the same source. Much of Iceland's traders from Icelandic fish products are owned by fish importers. The partnership makes it possible to move the slides from the fishing to the processing or the retailing of the linked parties. Without property connections and competition for fish products, there would be no fishing stakes in the processing or purchases of the products. Thus, the assessment of fish totals cannot be based solely on the fishing process, and the need to evaluate the whole fishing and processing is to be made. The 2012 Law provided a similar assessment of the process of fishing. From the total non-party income, cost was withdrawn, including the cost of fishing and processing. Because of its origin in hunting, all rentan was equal to the source of the fish. Some who did not understand or would not understand this method reasoned that this was a fishing fee, which is not correct. No company that had only income from processing but not fishing paid the price. - I repeat, no company with nothing but income from the process, but not hunting paid for it. As a result of this process, rentan is only calculated from the fishing process. This ignores the expected processing or sale between linked parties as lower than normal and uncalculated catchers. Fish prices are often considered to be at least 20% below the market price for bottom-fishing and that the difference is even greater for updating resources. The introduction of intermediate prices is recognized in the bill and tried to correct it by calculating 10% of pressures on the sliding seawater species. This correction, however, is incomplete. It is not a good practice to overlook the obvious facts that are of great importance and not to use available means of accepting them. This ignores a portion of the resource that the nation has the right to use and brings blessings to questionable behavior, though it may be legal. Illumination is already available for the undercalculation of the price of intermediate prices, including due to the connection between seamen's salary and price prices, but may also be available for tax reasons, etc. By allowing the wrong interaction to also affect hunting costs, this trigger becomes stronger than ever. Not only will taking away the water supply of fish and goods in fishing bills not only rob the nation of the resource but will also push down the fish prices and thus reduce the share of sailors and independent outputs that are dependent on the sale of products to their rivals. The core of the resource definition is to reduce the revenue of the resource use all the costs the user makes of the operation. For general management costs, i.e. the cost of pay and the purchase of material resources and services is in the accounting industry. It is different with the cost of laying up permanent financial items such as ships and fishing instruments, factories, and housing. The actual cost of that is not in account. Accountable accounting records, descriptions, and interest are in line with rules or are determined in a way that may involve actual costs. For these reasons, accounting is overlooked, but capital costs are calculated according to the amount of money in the business, the extension of solid money, and normal interest. The tax authorities use detailed information on the investment of companies decades back into the future, making it easier to evaluate the stock prices of solid capitals and their extensions and growths based on the general interest level. This is the first bill, and rather, accounting scripts are laid to the fore. Of course, scripts are a normal part of capital costs, but the use of accounting scripts that depend on the rules of the tax law usually differs greatly from the economic deduction. For example, there are ships measuring the time of the end for tens of years to be written off in eight years. As a result, copies can turn from a real decay, overrated, and swing a lot. This arrangement is likely to be an incentive for overinvestment. In addition to corporate debt, financial reforms and changes are an unscrupulous standard for capital costs. The bill does not rightly expect interest to be used, but instead of growing, it is estimated to be the same amount of money as the unwritten one, but in recent years these two sizes have been similar. Although there is no evidence to support this conclusion, it is not entirely illogical. It is likely that the end period of fixed funds is no longer far from 25 to 2:30 years, corresponding to a 3◯4% discount that is not far from the interest laid down. Even so, this route is questionable and will, for example, be taken for granted. twice the effect of fluctuations in investments and scripts. And continue, by permission of the President, Þorláksson Þölálsson: The largest part of the bill is likely to calculate the price paid for individual species rather than sharing fishing fees with so - called cod fish levels. The bill's method is not complicated, but it requires a considerable amount of data collection and processing, which should still be done by an RSK on hand. It does not appear to be a theoretical difference in these methods to balance the fishing costs with species, but the decision of coding was always very busy and the change is likely to improve. In the years since hunting costs were first applied, as resource costs have discussed the core of the problem, i.e. natural remuneration for the use of fish resources, fell into the shadow of technical expansion. It has also been tried to argue that fishing costs are reducing the interests of local communities or areas. Reason is lacking for such claims. True resource costs do not. They fall solely on the owners of the outlaws and do not alter the management committee or what the work will leave where it takes place. No discussion on the switch between the slides can be found in the bill, although it could be a basis for a discussion on this fundamental resource policy. It is avoided. No attempt is made to back up the pressures of hunting fees, their goals, and their reasons for being like the bill. In fact, when it is suggested that a relatively weak objective of the current law is changed in the way that, instead of the wording, the people in general are provided with a share of the goods produced by sea resources, it comes to provide the whole nation with a direct and visible share in the fishing of crops in the marine environment. The objective is, as it were, no longer to ensure a share in the interest of their own resources. Rather, it is simply that the share should be bone and transparent. Whatever the wording means, it is clear that this will be achieved regardless of what the fishing costs will be. Drivers of the bill avoid discussing the main points of the issue, the partition's division. In place of grammatical logic, the average share of fishing costs is proposed to be looked at by the calculated number of fishes at the time. The bill's method in the last 10 years, but the report states: ▪ With the bill is suggested that the cost of fishing take into account the average fishing cost as a proportion of the behind-calculation of the bill by 2009 to2018. This can be said to be based on the World Council's decisions for hunting fees in those years, which have been a metabolic year in Icelandic commercial and political life, but hunting costs have been discussed at most or all the legislators of this time. There is much work to be done if you can reach a satisfying conclusion or agree on the calculus and height of fishing fees with this to which you will have no future. The report goes on to say to Indriði: In this regard, it is falsely stated that the bill contains the same condition and implies that it is normal. The period of choice, however, is far from normal, and it will be said that fishing fees reflect some agreement on their sum. The first part of the period is a year when hunting fees were not put on as resource fees, but determined by government security workers in the Ministry and thus only a small part of the cost of ocean harvest. Then there were two years where hunting costs are certainly thought for resource costs, but they had not reached the target of the existing law and the last part of the period are years where the interests of exporters have returned to the level of money and will cut down on a small amount. Indriði, then, about the construction of the bill, it refers to the fact that at the time the report was written, at least subdirectly controlled by the designer's interests in the forecycling industry. I'm going to let myself go because of a lack of time to jump over that part, but I'm going to encourage everyone to read that chapter. I go back to what comes at the end of this chapter of the Indriði of Þorláksson, which says, The bill's signature echoes many of the songs of weeping. Fishing reduces investment in the fishing route, reduces technical progress, compromises competitiveness, settles the land area, etc. These standards have a common place in the world to be suitable, to support the painter's interests, to be easy to believe, and to put dust into the eyes of those who do not have the premise or have the ability to look at them but are not supported by any physical or theoretical logic. And Indriði's Þorláksson asks, "Who is rentan of fishing, and who is to be paid for fishing? " Fishing fees are designed to contribute to the nation's loss of fish resources. So there is a confusion that no serious experiment is made in the bill to identify the nature of this resource use, either independently or by the use of previous sources and observations. There is no information there on the basis of a return to the account such as total revenues of fishing and processing, pay costs and other costs, assets, subscriptions and interest. These sizes are needed to weigh the sum of the fishing fee. It would have been no less informative to inform how these sizes are divided according to the size and analysis of ownership in the development and fishing process. e.g. how it spreads abroad. However, there is no lack of available information. Iceland's eco-efficiency services have been published for decades, and the tax authorities have their share of detailed information on the economics of marine exporting companies, which could have been processed, including. [...] Despite the lack of information in the bill's report, this point can be considered closely. According to the bill, hunting costs are supposed to be based on 33% of the production ◯ as defined. It can be viewed as a approach to a resource. [[The president calls.]] This approach, though, is systematicly distorted and grossly underestimated, as noted above. The largest part of this bloc is undoubtedly the transfer of revenues from output to processing with an abnormal cover-up and its possible impact on export prices. [[The president calls.]] I am now finished with the time I was given in the speaker's office and the cheer of Congress and of others to read the final article in this outstanding article in the Indriði of Þorláksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u113	The president reminds the speakers to give a talk period, and he has adopted this new rule that he has followed the last four times he has been on the President's chair, that in ten seconds he will keep beating in and it will give way higher and higher. Of course, this is very uncomfortable for those at home. So, members of the council may be willing to respect the speaker's threshold, Mr. President, no matter what it is in the speaker's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u114	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I may have fallen out and entered with the excellent article "The Indriði of Þorláksson, " or when did this come from the Councilman himself. The subject turns toward remuneration in individual rural areas, towns, and territories. Possible tax or fishing costs affect delicate communities, just say Bolungarvík. I think it happened here earlier today, by reason of it. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's son, from the sea exit, is about 29% of the wages in Bolungarvík. The question to the senator is this: Does the senator really believe that this has no effect on the community, on the quality and structure of employment in the local community? It is a commercial intervention that will keep the community completely flotational - I mention rural society that we know far and wide about the country and in certain areas of the country, such as the Northwestern standard. This has often been pointed to by a professional road committee, and a report has been received on the evaluation of the economic impact of fishing costs in the district. I find this interesting because it sounded as if it had nothing to tell the local community what the fishing costs were, or because of tax returns or how to handle business management in the relevant areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u115	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. To keep that in mind, I thought it best to read aloud an article in Indriði, the H. of the Þorláksson, because it is a remarkable introduction to all this discussion, whether now or the discussion of our whole fishing and marine policy. In Indriði, in his article, it is critical that there is no discussion, no evidence of this in the report. There's no theoretical argument behind the scenes here in the Senate hall from the day before. Councilmen and others, whether on the bill or elsewhere. There is no evidence to support that the country's settlements are going on its side or that every type of company is in such a bad place that they need this administration from the government. Because this is premeditated, the rate of hunting is being substantially reduced. If it were normal, the fishing costs would be much higher. I think everybody agrees that it's strange that we as a nation sell our fish considerably below market prices. Only the suggestions we've been speaking to. First, we want to dismiss the matter, simply so that we can take this discussion, so that we can get some professional reasoning, not just a facade - like it ever happened. legislatures tell the government that everything is going down. [[The president calls.]] We can also ask ourselves, but I enter it in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u116	Madam President. Thank you for the answer. Hv. A senator did not answer what I was asking about his opinion on whether this affects the communities as such. This may have been what I was primarily asking about, would it not affect the local areas, towns, settlements, parts of the country that have a lot of value under the seaside, whether the fishing costs are not relevant to the local population? It could be understood that whether the fishing fees were 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30 billion, this would not affect the local community. That was, in effect, what could be read and heard out of speech. A senator just now. So I'd like to repeat the question, "Do you know what?" A senator doesn't care what the fishing costs are for the community, rural areas, or part of the country that might be more difficult to deal with? I think it's extremely important. It was nice to hear the speech. I guess we've had what we need. A senator received fine encouragement from the battle. paritaprevir The President of the United States, the Logi Einarsson, and then last night. The director of the United States said that it might be good to have the talk delivered here today. That's the best part, then it's over. But I think this is the big thing. When men discuss hunting costs and insist that they don't matter to that town in a country or part of the country, it's totally new to me. It's just a matter of principle. If it is the main issue that these factors, such as this criticism, are not mentioned, whether in terms of the greater part of the employment committee or in the bill itself from the Ministry, you have to deal with it. But that may not be the main point of this process. I wanted the answer to the question facing these rural communities and hunting costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u117	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's appreciation for the answer is great, and he would like to answer that. So, of course, the entire community is affected by fishing costs. As we reduce the cost of hunting, the less we come to the rest of the community. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must realize that the more we decide to bring this one party to this type of practice - a discount of paying for our common resource, a discount of paying dues to catch - we are missing a good opportunity to build a airport, which I know is a special hobby. Senator. We need money to build an airport. We also need money to build up the country's roads, which I think is also a special interest for the senator. We also need money into our health system, into our welfare community, for everyone. We in the Union and the government stand have suggested that some of these funds be specifically marked in the country's settlements. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must agree that this too is fair. However, the number of fish caught from the sea does not affect the price of fishing. We have also suggested that we get more for each fish, so we make a temporary agreement that a part of this will be offered up. But that is not in current suggestions. These are our suggestions, so like Faeroes, we get a normal price for the fish that comes out of the water, not the price that could possibly be used on a black Friday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u118	Madam President. We've had this discussion about the fishing bill for the last two full days, we're on the third day. I may begin my talk directly from my answers just before speaking. A senator, but there was a basic matter of hunting fees and other factors, how they understand their impact on settlements and such things, how these leak into the economy. To be honest, I did not get a perfectly good answer about the fact that in certain rural areas, where the water is the strongest, the best way to progress in that rural society and in other areas, such as Northeast standard, a vast region, it has a lot to say how things work in the sea route. I don't always feel that the viewpoint was based on my head's concern about how important it is for the individual based on solidarity and other factors, securing the settlement with a powerful fishing route, and that it is full of understanding of how things are being handled in it. It could be understood from a talk. A senator, however high, had nothing to say about the local or local background. That's a very specific approach to me. Our goal at a council when we discuss a bill on fishing fees is likely to reach the best level of agreement on this important matter. However, as we sit here, it is likely that late will be completely satisfied with how to obtain access to the resource. This has been an informative debate, and different opinions have developed. I think maybe one of the people mentioned has gone to the economic factor that turns toward the seafront and how important it is to the inhabitants of the country. It may be expected that approximately 80% or 4/5 of the pay in the fishing field is observed in the country. It is extremely important to the area of the country in a professional way and, in fact, to tenure as I entered the past. The bill we are discussing here is based on the government's declaration of policy, which says that a review of the legislation on fishing costs would require that the primary objective of ensuring the nation's righteous share of the resource use and taking into account the survival of the resource. As I came in, it may always be a matter of opinion as to what people think is fair hunting fees and what is a fair tax system. We have been discussing the last days, and there are many opinions about what we consider reasonable. However, the primary objective of this already existing fishing bill is to bring the pressures of hunting costs to a period of time so that remuneration is more consistent with the survival of this article. Thus, fishing costs will be based on annual data instead of two years of age, as is currently the case. On the other hand, management with pressures and the collecting of hunting fees is simpler, more efficient, more transparent, and more reliable. The bill is based on continuing to be used by the current set-up of a fishing fee based on the so-called tax profits but with specific adjustments on the grounds. It is a complex matter that can exert great influence on society far and wide throughout the country. The marine road is one of our main work branches in Iceland, and it had some 8% of our country's production last year. The second main work is the tourism industry, which had 8.6% of national production last year. The competitiveness of the development and development, and continuing development, is one of the goals, to me. It is important, then, that fishing costs do not have a strong and negative impact on the competitiveness of the industry in competition with other countries. This is a point that I don't feel that people have made a big impression on the discussion, and I think it's very important that when we think about our professional careers in Iceland, competitiveness is guided when we're in a competitive competition, as we know. One of the changes presented in the case is that the head of the tax is now involved. With contributions from the bill, the calculation of fishing costs and cover is brought to the head of the state tax and to the fishing fees committee. There is a considerable change, and hopefully we will achieve a better access to data, and there will be a better understanding of data through the government taxpayer system, which will help us to better evaluate real time how to deal with the fishing costs. In the recent months, in all this process, some have come up here and talked about the lack of consultation and reconciliation in the progress of the matter. It is reported that the case has been cooperated with a fishing committee, a Fish Office and the government tax manager's office, the people who know this system best. At the same time, the faults of this currency have been repeated during the past few years. The main interest stakeholders have also lived for a long time. It has been observed during the discussion that the minister of the sea was preaching to 11 meetings throughout a country where 600 people came across open meetings and had full access to the minister to express their thoughts on the matter. For two months, a professional health - care committee has included the case, accepting 11 meetings on the committee and welcoming a large number of visitors. Therefore, statements about the lack of discussions and discussions are simply wrong, so to speak, to be maintained. In the case of a greater part of the employment network, the majority suggest that the ratio of discounts to small and medium-sized companies is thought to be the highest of the fishing costs, or 40% of the first 6 million fishing fees. Thus, the discount increases to smaller output workers by 200 to 250 million. In this area, a greater part of the employment committee is guided by the security of urbanity in the country, where submarines are extremely big and wide around the country, often in the smallest settlements in which perhaps one of the most runs behind the feet in recent years. It's guided. You can talk about these and many points you can go through, but I'm going to stop now and just listen to the discussion tonight. I'm gonna keep this brief.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u119	Madam President. Hv. One who spoke before met the nail when he said that there would be a long debate over what is righteous. Therefore, in many respects, although it is not suggested by the United Nations, it is up to us to make our own decisions. On the other hand, we realize that this is not a major part of the council, so we do not add to it. Rather, we simply recommend that contracts be temporary and suggest that the fee partly flows to the settlement. I have talked about both the bill and the adjustments made in the previous talk and will much more focus on what the situation is today. But first, I'd like to say, for word's sake. A senator, that it is true that this bill and these issues can be very important about how individual settlements come out and how they do so. There are no new truths, and this is not something that is being solved. We've quite seen that by the way the present fishing system has evolved, of course, with many changes, the world's population has become upset. We have constantly struggled with it, and we will likely have to continue. The results of the deforestation were about 366 billion from collapse to the end of 2016. At the same time, 66 billion dollars from 2010/2016 were spent in fishing only 44 billion. That profit and profit has come because of the use of a resource that the nation has under law, not by a few companies or families. The wealth of fishing industry grew from collapses of about 300 billion dollars. In context, this amount is about 50% higher than the one we put in the whole medical system. The annual accounts of 20 of the largest productions in the country last year show telecommunications inside companies and remunerations at over 23 billion dollars. The financial standing of the enterprises has been doubled in a decade. Yet the available bill gives a generous discount to the parties like the others, the owners of export companies as many as were administered with a dose of tacrolimus. It may also be added that the same owners pay capital taxes from the income and sales profits of 22% while normal employees have to pay less than 37%. Madam President. There are a number of factors that lie down with the development of these days, not only the forward government, the left green, and the Independence Party, but the lower price of oil. It can be expected that it will be grafted out or that it will have some 20 billion because of its change. Therefore, it would be sufficient to provide a fishing bill that would give the nation more money, so that we would not need to cut on a nail the necessary contributions to groups that are very weak in our community. A righteous government would do this while making a good deed and the bad people, trying to balance the game through fair fishing costs. But in spite of all of this, the government is going to turn down the rate of more than 4 billion just before Christmas, while many people enter the holdup and probably not be able to catch themselves and their worth. That's what makes a great deal of it for a brother. Let us remember that it is not long ago that the same government first tried to slip and then tread 3 billion pieces. reduction of hunting costs through the council. The bill was so angry with the public, so upset at the end of the council that the government was forced to fail. And it reminds me that there was an unattainable consultation. That doesn't mean much to a man. paritaprevir The Njáll to Trausti Friðbertsson to discuss this with him, of course, because he was primarily promoting stakeholders; Fishing Office, IRS. He might have had a little more discussions with the government. Yes, the management committee was meeting with a welfare committee, but there were very little changes made on the bill as it went. Don't give it up. A seafaring minister so little to call us the government opposition to the table this summer. So here we are again because no consultation has been made. So we in the Union, the Pirates, and the restoration feel that it is inevitable and necessary to dismiss the bill and extend the existing arrangement for a year so that we can make more peace with the article. The government itself puts it in a government covenant that it must be done in a large, long - term system of things. We simply need to be at peace with how and how much of our common resource will flow to the nation in the future. Hence, the bill remains, and there is no single attempt to reflect it, or, like, turn. Friðbertsson " There will always be a controversy over what is just. Let them, then, someone other than the council themselves decide. Let those who have to pay a lot when they can pay a lot and pay little if they have little money to pay. One day they were taught that it was really the policy of the Independence Party. I'm not sure that more things are involved, and in fact, I doubt that, and that's why we're making adjustments that are necessary to make sure that they own the resource, including the resources. temporary accounts and income, however, are drawn into rural society. That's at least two categories of government, and almost all the anti-regional groups that agree on this point, on temporary sources. I ask, "Why in the world does everything in the community have to happen on account of the Independence Party, which is only 25% votes?" We're going to be the cowards and sluts, like the highest. About a year ago, the President said to have 25% of the classes run all the discussion here for the future? For God's sake, don't be hiding behind sensitive settlements, hookboats, or even gender reasons, as the report shows. This is a service to the special interests of the big marketing industry, and it is very obvious in this matter. We've all talked about it, no matter where we stand, taking into account the guidelines, the preparations that are in bad business conditions, so don't try to put this on the table for us. Try to adjust the cost according to normal living instead of confiscating it to the lowest products involved in making it possible to walk away with all the money. And first what. A senator spoke of a problem: Maybe we should when we have time to review whether major builders are in a big, big day. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There is no justice, and this discussion is primarily about what is just and what is fair for the public in the country. Then we can have some committees in town produce the formula. It's just not our job. Madam President. I object to the ultimate. The prime minister who promised an agreement in a government contract has not allowed himself to deal with any of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u120	A respectable president. There's not much to talk about. A senator who is surprised beyond the fact that it is more expressive and goes on to draw up such language as ◯ungung, ◯drunk, and then intertwined by the word, we all need to stick together and have a strong understanding and cooperation. How can you think of that, chief? President, to appear before an international nation, cross - references to their political rivals in some controversial matter and then to call in the other word, according to the fact that all the animals in the forest are to be friends? That conversation is not acceptable, just to be said. I must ask you why. A senator in his statement whether we do not agree that the price of hunting, as it is founded on law, is a price to collect from a common resource. Do we not agree that this is so? This is a fundamental question about the nature of the fishing fee. To date it has been interpreted as a means of access to a common resource and should be added to a common fund. Then I'll have to ask you which one too. A senator following that question, and I expect the answer to it as well as to the other: What does he think the natural fee for that warrant is to be? He will be very insistent that the payoff as it is in the available bill is far too low. This figure is estimated to be 33%, which is in the case of e.g. The sum is 13.80 per kilogram. It would be very good for the discussion to find out who this Maagitic language is, as is sometimes said, in the mind of a man. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u121	Madam President. It's good to be a top dog. Secretary of finance who also has, from what I hear, is that I've been involved in grammar... (Sutov. -and landbrush.: Secretary of finance is abroad.) - Seafaring minister - making it the main element in the counter-array which language I use. In his speech, I quoted first of all directly from the President of Generalis, and I even said that I did not believe that they were. I didn't say they were. But only to matter. V.E.G. Minister, it may well be that you don't think the speech is acceptable, but I'll say, "I don't think it's an acceptable bill." You see, I spoke about it in the talk, that this limited resource should be determined by the companies who put forth the effort to catch the fish rather than by some highly refined, imaginary concept of justice for our members. And first, the highest. The minister speaks of a 33% proportion, it is all right to quote from Indriði Þorláksson. He says: In comparison, the 2012 law determined that once the fish were fully completed, the fishing costs would be about 60% off the surface after the small productions had been given off. - After smaller projects were taken off. But here, the minister has chosen to take the average from 2009, I think, and until our day. It's got three years in it where they didn't charge their own fees, which screw up the whole movie. Why do humans choose this time period, not something else? So from 2012 onward, why did humans not choose to do so? What would've shown up then, chief? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u122	A respectable president. I study Icelandic with other fine people who include has been in a pit today and has had opinions on matters. I don't get the answer from what. The senator's opinion is that the normal price should be paid. It refers to putting it under control by the market and in line by means of the auction route. And there comes a more interesting situation during the discussion because the chairman of the Upseer, who is in the same situation. Senator, only talks about reassigning sources, not auctions. Hv. A senator and others in the United States are talking about auctions and the price is to be controlled. Then I ask, "When shall I come to do so? " That is not in the suggestion itself of the auction. If you're gonna take the 5% and reassign it, I'm gonna ask you, how's it going? A senator to form the price if he is to be reassigned to the same party? Where, then, is the market to enter it? Should he not pay for what is being reassigned? What is the meaning of that thought? No evidence of that. One party talks about auctiones while the other talks only about reassigning. [[Up front.]] The motion contains a reassignment. Then I'll ask why. A Parliamentary: How should the price be calculated by reassignment to the same party as the 5%?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u123	Madam President. I don't know if it's the highest. Ministers have taken so carefully to the hospital earlier that he did not keep his attention while I was talking. I said in the beginning that the government groups that make these adjustments have not suggested an auction. What we really wanted to achieve is: a. We wanted to have the bill dismissed so that every group at the council could achieve the consultation that the Minister and the government have announced. b. As a warning: We believe that in that step we will achieve at best at temporary sources and then expand into rural society. Then he asked the highest question. Minister me personally, away from the changes, how I generally felt about how we should earn money. Then I said I thought the market, the companies themselves, was on better opportunities for it. I'm going to pray to the highest. The minister not only listens to what is said here but also understands when he asks me general questions about how I feel and what I do with other categories. There's no auction here, chief. Minister. (Sjútv. -and landbrush.: How should the price be made?) We'd like to dismiss the bill because we know it's not the same thing at the council on the market route and we... (Sutov. -and landbrush.: How should the price be made?) - Madam President. You ask him to shut the fuck up while I'm talking. [[Take it up:]] [[Let's face it: No, stop it, logi.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u124	Wait a minute. A senator to guard his words.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u125	Which one?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u126	Hv. A senator in a pita.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u127	We can review the market route in that discussion. [[The president calls.]] But it's a twist, topv. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u128	President. Thank you. A senator's fine speech, and I hope he doesn't hold it against me, but I'm going to have a word of advice. A senator like this, we can call it, for the left green, because I've certainly missed them a little bit here in a pita today. [[Up front.]] They do not have much to be seen saying, at least, about their speakers. Maybe you understand. A senator of the party's long walk by himself. When you look at the whole thing, the opinion, the language of the committee and the language of the left green in answer to the others, and those talks, you'd think we'd been in some kind of cross-order competition. As you look at the older men, the same party and the same party are in charge of the case, e.g. From 2013 onward, their presentation is virtually upside down today. So I wondered a bit, and would be interested to hear the opinion of a man. A senator: What really causes this change in the left greens, which not long ago complained that it was being given a marvelous discount on hunting costs at the same time that they desperately needed these funds, e.g. into the welfare system? Today, the same band of governments that last week completes to revise their spending ideas on welfare down to 2nd. case of hunting fees where they're reduced to 4 billion. I just admit that I don't understand why on the very left green, and, in fact, the advance team, if that's happened, have completely disappeared from their previous course in this case. I'd be interested to get a glimpse of it. A senator on that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u129	Madam President. I can't answer that. They have to answer for them. I believe, however, that there are two things that can happen. On the one hand, they are totally intervening on course and condition of the Independence Party. In such a case, it would be much more honest to do so, as would a group of whales. The senator, who formed a government in the last place with the independent party and certainly left behind in various matters; in currency, in fishing, and even in agriculture. Still, in talks, they held their views in fistulas. I remember that there were times when the current minister of finance and prime minister was involved in currency issues. It is an honest approach to say: We put more interests ahead of mine and take this aside for some year while the government is active - but we leave ourselves right to speak for the matter. That made me feel honest. VG, on the other hand, seems to be doing the opposite: meddling with the Independence Party and becoming just like a chameleon, just being independent people. Of course, the other explanation could be that in three or four years, the left green has already taken the case. There's nothing wrong with that either. Everyone may change his mind if they find that they were wrong. But in that case, I might suggest the editor of the left green to revise the website so it's at least The harmony between what is spoken in this symposium and what you can read in the vg.is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u130	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. What's in my answer is just a little bit of my experience. I sit here at the conference hall listening to these discussions and asking myself: " What is it really that the left green is getting replaced by this transformation in this matter? So extensive abduction that it can be said that the godfather of the party on tax issues, Indriði, H. Þorláksson, the cathazzle of a paper this day for Christmas to be given to the fore, as he puts it well. I can't see what left green has got in exchange for these changes. That's exactly right, like what's wrong. A senator points out that classes do not always agree on all aspects of government cooperation, and then, as in the past, it may be wise to seek a cross - political partnership on major differences. But it seems in this government business that when it comes to the issues you would have thought would be a major political issue between these categories, especially between the left greens and others, then left has just slipped into the Independence Party and the forward party. And they cannot be seen to be getting a lot of involved in other litigation groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u131	Madam President. I couldn't agree with you more. It's also a mystery to me. In fact, to be reasonable, I think that they have been able to absorb some emphasis, especially in health and climate matters, they have talked about and made a lot of money out of it. First of all, it's just so urgent that every group at the council agrees on a major campaign there. On the other hand, they take steps backwards from what the government has to do. The senator suggested, including ... incarbonpays. It's not even where they get it. I don't know. I've been ashamed of a president once today, so I'm not going to say what came to mind. But someone might, if he had not been ashamed, think that men were simply tempted by ministers and even the office of the General President. I've heard that, of course. But I think it's a matter of being nonverbal when the country's government is under. I wouldn't say this, especially now. But this, of course, has been said. I repeat that I felt much more honest that the left just came up in a pit and said, "We think this bill sucks and we don't think it's fair, and we don't think it's based on the views that stand on our social site. " But we think we are, like the highest. A health minister told a kitchen day talk, was saving the nation, and therefore we make a deal that we disagree with in these matters for four years, and we will support it to keep the government together, but we will not defend the case. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it's crazy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u132	V.E.G. President. I cannot deny that in this discussion, under which my mind has been deeply concerned with the year 2013 when another government was in power but the present one. It faced problems similar to those faced today, i.e. the need to renew the fishing bill so that next year's hunting costs can be collected. In 2013 men had quite a lot of ideas, anyway. I admit that it was so green that I thought that the bill that they had would delay compression and that its emphasis would be more useful to small and medium-sized outputs. I remember that at that time, five years ago, several members of the council went into a hall because of the original bill. I remember one before. paritaprevir The left green said in a scandalous response to the United States: Is that so that the best paid? The answer to that question was yes. But I have to admit, I said to a man who's been waiting for me. Senator, this is now the highest. The general president, that this was all for the strangest socialism I'd ever heard of. But I want to, too, with permission of the highest. The president, giving a talk, one of many delivered at that time, in 2013. You can hear the following message, with the permission of the highest power. President: It makes me feel that, in the big context, the very essence of this case is that it is being looked for the development of the land's expansive capital of its natural resource resources to the non-contracted people of the resource. It has been said that today, most of the builders bought into the article, and it is also true, but they originally received this resource without paying for it, and that's how the ball began to roll. It is none other than the nation itself who has created a major part of the building and the profits and profits contained in this article today. If it's not fair now, after all this time, that people start paying a normal amount of this common resource than they have been, now that the government fund has a great need for these incomes, I don't know when that time will come. A man could have guessed a few senators who could have delivered the talk, but this was none other than why. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who then gave a talk along with many others at that time. Now, though, five years later, left - faced greens as a whole have been surrounded by their position on fishing costs. They have become what was in the legends of ancient times called transformations. The late Winston Churchill would now have said, as he said before and before: It is the prudent way of changing one's mind. The others don't. As you look at it this way, you admit to yourself that the left may be more discreet than others thought. Apparently, they've seen the light at the end of the Ministers' chairs, so they're determined to jump on the wagon to produce this bill today. I'm going back to 2013 to witness when ten of the largest fishing companies in Iceland paid 75% of the fishing fees. At that time, the number of landmarks was several hundred more on the fishing grounds than they are today, for despite what was done in 2013, the compression continued. Just as random, big or medium-sized enterprises have been located in the West Coast of the West, which has then met with other larger companies. In fact, the report with the bill shows that today, the country's largest development companies have a target share of about two and a half times compared to what they were in 1991◯1992. This may be the biggest concern of the already existing bill. Therefore, I take my heart to what is presented in a committee program 1. My section on the bill for the local fishing fee, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: A smaller portion of 1 memory should be used to further link the currency to recovery so that a step - by - step discount will be provided that is preferably due to small and medium-sized fishing companies. That's what I'm saying. I fear very much that this bill, as it stands for, will not delay the compression but, contrary, will encourage it. I suppose that would result in a urban disorder, which I thought I would not see to it. paritaprevir I'm sure Magnúsdóttir the Rafney Islands will agree and work on it. I'm absolutely certain that this bill will be the result of an even greater compression and structural dysfunction. It's natural, as we all know, that a debate about fishing in Iceland is made up of a lot of emotion, but sometimes not with a lot of knowledge, because it's complicated, and it's done in making it complex. Yet, there is a situation where we have a small number of giant companies who are well equipped to pay their hunting fees and pay taxes, etc. who, fortunately, are employed in a good way, so that they pay the wages of their owners. So the same owners pay 22% of the interest in finance money in the state's funds, which is, the best. However, I am concerned that evolution has come as far as it will be, and I know how to cause, a problem that is not good enough to wind off. That's why, as I said before, I feel very afraid that we'll see even more medium-sized companies putting up the latrines and getting put into other larger kits. I make it clear that in 2013, so I run back in time, the companies I quoted, which ran together with larger kits over the five years, were very successful businesses. They were companies with quite a going-away position. They were companies running from one to three, four boats, and they had goodbyes of up to 3,000 to 300,000 tons. Yet, they did not borrow to meet the rate of fishing that was set for 2013. Perhaps this is because of the debt that existed at that time, and many members of the Left Green were actively involved. Perhaps it is because in this bill and the laws then given, the sun's decree was that the debt of debt would die out in a few years. It's possible. Therefore, I think, by then, and this I have only after speaking to the people in that sector, mostly those involved in the business of small and medium-sized enterprises, that it had possibly been a way of speaking in this case now to restore that debt discount to some extent, in order to try to prevent the undiscovered compression. That doesn't mean it's a bad bill, far away. It is beneficial to base the stress of fishing costs on information that is closer to time than has ever been. I have sometimes compared it to the fact that before tax standards were set up, young men often made good bills and could not afford to reduce their jobs because they had difficulty paying the tax the following year. It's not exactly premeditated. In some ways, the construction companies are not, either, because the fishing costs they are paying are now based on income they had two or three years ago. Nevertheless, I think that all of us must agree that it pays for everyone and is more likely to achieve that application is based on information that is closer to time. I also want to state that I think there is a great improvement that the government tax manager is being given the bill to oversee the collection of fishing fees and information collected earlier in the hands of a hunting commission. I think there's a lot of improvement in the fact that the government tax manager gets that part. I mentioned earlier that I was concerned about growing up and increasing the number of companies. Of course it is, and we can totally look at it, and I'm sure good economists could lead to the chances that a five fishing business at Iceland'stanills might lead to the survival of five marine export companies. We could then have one company in every quarter and the fifth in the Western Islands, for example, at random. But that's not what we've wanted to do this. We've wanted to keep this country built. We've wanted small settlements to have the opportunity to grow and thrive. They are natural anchors for the settlements. Sadly, we hear nearly every month of problems in various smaller parts of the country that may be the result of what we have been building up. Therefore, it is imperative that we bring in the collection so that smaller companies can thrive and live and that their settlements can develop and live on. I suppose most of us would like Iceland to be one of the world's outlands here, little east and west of us in the capital area. There is also another factor that may have involved this matter, and the process of processing has changed somewhat because the market has changed. This has resulted in a large proportion of products being taken in an area that may extend from the south of the West or from the north of the Snæfells in the west to the Far East. This says that the major projects that are set aside outside this area are found in the Eyjafjörður, the Taurus of Langanei, the Nesafjörður, the Cape of the Hornfjord. That's why you're very worried about me. And I must not forget the Westerns. But this is still a concern. There is also a sense of compression. Then we come to my impression that Iceland's largest fishing exporting company has already come up from the quota roof. That is, shall I say hidden, or shall I say in a way that these companies have many subspecies who are fished? This is also hanging by the fact that I believe that it is absolutely necessary for us to turn the competitive show into the fishing law. The thing is, I've had in mind for quite a long time putting in a change of competitive law over a head that would take special note of what is considered a relative. I know it surprises a lot of people in this room, but where you had mainly in mind big business chains, like, e.g. Hags and bonds owned by the same Pension Funds, which are not defined as family. Yet, it still states that it is in the fishing field. It contains, for example, To find the manager of a very large company, Samherja, and the director of the Filter Process at Ness shop. These are family members, but the same man, who is not related. The words of Davíð the son of Oddsson come to mind when he learned that the Bjordles Thor Björgólfur, the son of Björgólfsson, and Björgólfur the son of Guðmundsson were not related: Is this known to Þóra? V.E.G. President. This is what we need to deal with. There are various ways in which you can do this. You might, for example. Imagine lowering the roof each one's own. What would be done then? Yes, it does. It would simply be sold. Who would buy? Yes, we might have a business, so that top ten lists, top 50s, might be a little more equal. He might not only be with five, six very large tops but with a little more equal, so that we would have them instead of having a 51⁄210 giant landscape where there would be 20 to50 dumpling companies, very hot, which also says that it was in nature that they were expected to be scattered more about the country than this top of five. But this is meditation because I believe that in some way we need to make peace with them. We need to create peace in this system. This bill doesn't, in my opinion. While there are many good things about this bill to say, and I suppose I will support it, I still believe there's too much going on in it. Perhaps it is as it is now as it was in 2013. I remember men in much of their time making the changes made. It seems that humans have been in a measure of time right now working on the bill. Actually, I don't know why, maybe because the government is composed of two different groups with little helpers. Maybe it's just the conflict between these poles that's been taken care of that case. I don't know. On the other hand, when two relatives who have very different opinions on things come to an agreement, should we put it this way? To hold on to the chairs behind here, you are ready in both wings to swallow the other and this, to stick together the government business. That's what I see most wrong with the bill. I don't think it's bold. I don't think that's going far enough. I'm sure that doesn't solve problems. I think there's more to it than that. We generals, who will likely have to take a stand on how to vote on the matter, will find themselves making it known how we feel about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. A lot of interesting things that came out there. I might say, "I don't know." A senator concluded that although I see primarily the positive in this matter that the currency is getting closer in time, I feel like the solution is a terrible mix. I think we're going to have to come up with this thing over and over again. I agree with it. A senator came on, worried about compression. I may not be particularly concerned about the compression that is occurring around the seabed, i.e. from him, but not just in the fishing field itself. Clearly, even employment - related companies have significant investments. In many ways, the fishing road may be accepting the role of an old business antagonist in society. Looks like we're always gonna have to have a business block. At one time, it was the octopus, and then it was the killer of the killer side and the bank, and what's-his-name. Today, a fishing business seems to be taking a certain position. I'm going to share a recent investment in 25% of Eimships. It's been quite investing, e.g. ... attheall-selling point. The unnamed media is held off fishing roads, and so on. Of course, there is also a measure of compression within the article of concern. Of course, it's a shellfish. That's why I would be interested in hearing a point of view. Senator. Don't we really need to separate these systems? That we have what we could call our large fishing system, which was a certain weight of the system, where the super-funding was in a free agent and would pay a fair share of resources to the community, but then we would be with only a united section, for the system is certainly very complex today, which would have more and better structure to them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would be the idea that the basis was strong, we can say, but in the main system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u134	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I make it a rule to listen when he brings up the various subjects. I can't hear better than that. A senator can support himself, if we can say so, the elite department. One of the largest companies that would be different from all of them. Of course, that might be possible. It would, for example. e.g., have the currency in some way different depending on the size, size, location, and other factors. What I'm afraid of is the distribution, and that's why I've been thinking about this option I've mentioned here, just with myself, that if we were to lower this roof, we might spread it out a little bit. Because if, as we hope, our fish stocks grow and grow, this question will ever arise in that process: Will we continue to share the expansion, i.e. The increase in hunting, the same group that's active now? Is there no one to find out but those who are there right now? That's a question I've wondered about. I don't know if this system is working. A senator mentioned here would make this easier or harder. In terms of investments, however, it may be one of the cohesion fish that it has done well in the fishing industry that a large and powerful business has been able to invest. I know my name, my name, my name. A senator is so independent that he does not want us to put a stone in their streets or tell people where to invest and where not. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is true, however, and very different forms of slaughter have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u135	Mr. President. You're absolutely right what you're doing. A senator telling me I don't hate to lay down any commandments and bans on where to invest. I think this in itself is a manifestation of the very usefulness of this article. That interest has been expressed in very large investments into the article itself. The best. There has been considerable and powerful developments in this article, and of course, there has also been a large investment. I don't make any comments about that. But I feel that it gives evidence that there is a potential resource use far greater than currently, and as a result, these largest companies are allowed a considerably higher rate of expenditure than they pay. It's always called on these two conflicting views, really: That the sea route is driven with the most practical approach in mind, with the greatest profit and consequently the ability to provide the highest resource costs to the community for using this common resource, and then again, the basis for our fishing and fishing management. That's where we really are today with all kinds of bix, I would call it. We have a variety of ways to secure some kind of structure, they work in a different way. I think most of us would agree that the groundwaters as such really are a very powerless, semi-new system. What I'm wondering here, just in answer to what I'm doing. A senator is if we don't just have to jump it up. It would be possible a dual system, we would be guided by free expeditation, but a system that is then completely separate and could not be accessed between these two systems and the latter may have a considerable lower resource price as such, but a considerably more solid and more reliable perspective on distributing fishing sources across the country. I think we must eventually take this into consideration, because I don't think we can hold it down and put it on the main paragraph that it's the weakest project that's in charge of expeditation or resource costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u136	V.E.G. President. That's very interesting. A senator says. In itself, we have had two systems, i.e. The bigger and the less. True, there has been a leak between them. Men have sold themselves out and gone in the other way. I've met guys who sold themselves out three, four times. They've begun to sell themselves out of the big system, have gone into my fishing business, sold it, and have gone into less deforestation, sold themselves out of it, and are now at the dock level, or are fishing at sea. In itself, there is nothing to say. It's the natural codfish of the system we set up. Then it's, like, a cot. A senator mentions, what I have sometimes referred to as the social system in the fishing road, which is a rural, unique graffiti of a graffiti. We've sometimes talked about agriculture, me and what. Senator, and support him. This social system may be appreciated in the fishing field at 9 to 12 billion, depending on how we use our money for the exchange. Thus, because we are, of course, by ensuring tenancy in the land, we also have this social aspect of the land, just as we are doing so by supporting agriculture in the country. We're making sure the whole country is built. But, of course, there is a social system. For the rest, it's quite true. One senator says that it is a fine testimony that a company in Iceland has been properly fired and has been successful in investing in other fields. But then again, what I said earlier in my speech, we get at some point, and sooner, we have to look to the extent of that compression. Surely we need to look to the competition and its wealth in this business. [[The president calls.]] We just have to have the courage to do that at some point, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u137	A respectable president. We're here discussing a bill on a fishing fee that was proposed to appear before the council a year ago. Of course, it was quite disappointing that the government groups were not going to finish the case at the time, but it was clear to all who were then taking good care of the proposed currency of this year, 2018, was entirely in contact with the outcome of this article. Today, fishing costs for 2018 become about 11.4 billion. I'm here to assess the Deloitte Accounting Corporation, the Conspiracy of the Marine Exploitation Association in the East, Grinsavík, the West, the Snæfellsnes and the West, the 2016 business enterprise, and 2017. Of course, it is shocking to see that we now have enough money in this country to reach 27 billion in 2017. In 2018, we have 11.4 billion fishing fees on the income tax that these associates are paid to pay. 42% of last year's profits are taken in hunting fees. This, of course, reflects the evil output being attempted to unwind in these changes, which in turn turns on the fact that there is a very long interval between the foundation, mood, fishing fees, and the reality of which a company faces in its own business. The rules we've built on the fishing grounds of the people of the country, the companies that pick up the sea, do not think that we are going to promote compression. But that's exactly what's happening right now inside this system that we've built up and then the basis for that fishing system we've been living with the past few years, and unfortunately, a lot of intermediate and smaller companies don't live on it. The share we've been tracking the past few months and losing is that small and intermediate parties are falling off the train because fishing costs are simply too heavy to carry. It is human nature, or self - survival efforts, or whatever we call it that when people fail to cope with the problems laid upon them, they seek ways to get their way out of that environment. It happens today only in one way in this environment, i.e. to sell the resources to larger and more powerful parties, and in turn, there is an increasing compression that I believe is assured that is not the idea of this room. Of course, no such thing is that a business in the fishing road cannot go down, as in any other business, but it is not the goal of this policy to promote the small and intermediate process into difficulties resulting from these fishing costs. That can't be the goal. If that's your goal, it's good to see it. I think I'm sure it's the best. A seaman minister who now enters the hall is not about to come below in an answer to explain that this is the goal. I think I know I don't. The compression will only continue if this course continues. As I came to the beginning of my talk, it was quite disappointing that this matter could not be finished for us. It is now established that the Central Party is not on the issues that other members of the government resistance present here, in one way or another, the transfer of an expiration route to which the Conspiracy has spoken through the past, and it appears to have a comparable application. Although this is called a marketing route, there is, of course, only an expiration route. There's another one throwing into this water main system that I don't think will make any peace with running this council. Only to run back. We're talking about that between 2016 and 2017, if we take Snæfells and the West in particular out of parentheses, we're getting together by 89% in the companies that stand in the seaside. It is an insurmountable situation when profits go down 89% and people are at the same time fighting to pay at 42% of the profits of the entire sector in the previous year at hunting costs, 11.4 billion. It is obvious, then, that the most vulnerable areas are going through bull fishing and recycling; the situation is, fortunately, better off in those who have their share or weight in sea fishing activities. People who are involved in bullfishing, and especially in the middle, and in debt, find it very difficult to control their breath. What happens with this is, of course, as I said earlier, that men sell themselves out of the article. Investments are postponed, equipment is not updated, and people do worse than they do. It's a different thing. It's not solved until it reaches the point where men give up. Deloitte, this summary, has a transparency that's pretty striking, on the page. 11 for those who will be involved in this report, i.e. Hunting costs as a share of profit. It is divided into areas - the Snæfells and the Westerns, the Western Islands, the Grindasvík, and the East, and the most crystal, the location in the areas that depend on body fishing and processing. The situation is that hunting costs for 2017 are 74%. 74% of the company's profits are paid for. They see every person that companies in this position are not about to build themselves up. They're not about to add dinner. They're not about to invest in new boats and ships, they're not investing in new technologies. They do not have room to do better with their employees and crews. It's completely unacceptable. This ratio, 74% of profits, is incredibly high in Snæfellsnes and Westerns, but if we look to Grind Louis, which is also examined in this Deloitte assessment, the proportion is 82.6%. There's not a reasonable man in business where he has to run his business with all the risk that comes with it, paying taxes, paying financial fees, and in addition to that, there are less than 83% of the profits left in hunting expenses. We must somehow get into the environment that this system is more reasonable, reflecting more fully the physical experience of each area and each other's assigned groups. Happily, that's what's going on in another wave, a man hoping to get it through, i.e. just in terms of this overall approach to the reduction of the cost, a modest reduction--too little I allow to say--and then to meet some extent of the smallest project. Sadly, though, the roof of the side rules that are set so that they do not do much for the intermediate structure. Of course, it will all come about, but it is not the rescue, so to speak. It's going to be very difficult, and the business of these medium-sized structures and outputs that are between them, so much smaller, if you let me say it so clumsyly. We have said, and a representative of the Central Work Board stated in his committee's study that the approach to this location did little more than promote a very specific taxation on this one industry. It's just the way it is, but I have to say, in order to keep everything fair, to the highest. A seafaring minister is a little pity to stand in this fight. Of course, here at the council are categories that so candidly put it that they talk about earnings for a new tax system being just like a buffet from which politicians must choose. The lack of understanding of business and what it takes for a company to create valuables in the community we live in to maintain the welfare system we live in, unfortunately, is a complete group of senators, let me say. Then I'm just gonna have to be scolded here before I say so. A person has to understand the context of its role as a force for value and pressured, but he is not killed. That is what we are doing by taking nearly all the profits that a hand holds out of the fishing road. This is the sector, this is the job path that, when it's available, invests its highest share of income in development and induction into new markets and new solutions. We just watch companies like Marel, 3X, Vaka. The list is long, it's all a company that builds up with the highest force when the fishing road is in the best position. It's just that way. The marine road, if I talk about it as a whole, is probably ashamed to pay cash. It seems that when the fact is that money money is needed in many parts of society, it is now a matter of becoming a source of evil. It is claimed that if we look at the share of the profits of every company in the country so that the forwards of the marine industry in terms of profits are not more surmountable than those of any other country's income, we look at the ratios of all companies so that the results of the economy in terms of profit money are far below the national average if you look at them as the accounts of the Habitats have been. I'm not gonna keep this much further here tonight, but I'd like to say, of course, that I'm on this matter as it is and would have wanted to see that it would be further gone. Although living together in the government home may not be taken immediately, this fight will likely be followed. You have to deal with it, you choose your own partners. I think it's very important, though it's getting better. Although it is certainly still quite complex, it is simple. They are moving the currency into a time that is good and really necessary. There is an overall decrease, although the conference today and yesterday in the long chapters, the payoff is still very high. It's just gonna have to look at things as they are, the proportions as they are, what fishing costs will be as a percentage of profits or EBIDU or what standards they want to watch. But then, I think, in the next update on these rules, we'll have to look at it so that we won't be looking at the seabed as a whole. Now we have managed to draw closer to time as far as the pressures of the price are concerned. I think we've got to get to that place, too, to bring us closer to the reality of every modeling party than we're going to succeed in this storm. I'm gonna let this finish at this time, declare it over here that I will support this case as it is and trust in the highest. A seafaring minister will make another move against his dance partners before long.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A fine talk given by a senator shows that he has an excellent view of the current job profession. I can be completely informed that I share my opinion on the very many aspects of his analysis of the subject being discussed. It's just that way. The bill as it lies is a compromise. It is good for the government home to be told and answered. It's a pleasure to hear that. A senator supports the bill in all the basics. It is a pleasure and a joy to feel that support because in my mind this step is in developing the better and more satisfying means of currency. In fact, I think we need to get closer to it as fast as possible. paritaprevir The Sigurður apostle Páll Jónsson has been introducing and speaking, that we look at how we can contribute to the common resources of others. But I'd like to curious a little bit about it by then. A senator with a view to changing proposals on an existing bill from the Archipelago, the Conspiracy, and the Shuffle of the people. They are presented under the premise that they are meant to promote greater peace in the seas of Iceland. Does he share that opinion with them? Councilmen who speak most of the government study that the ideas there are about the release of fishing warrants, etc., some fund, are the means of reconciliation, so to speak, of an Icelandic fishing road? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u139	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. It is far too bad to say that it will not be comfortable to overthrow Icelandic fishing roads. This most powerful sector and the most important export is simply the type and nature of export that representatives of the Central Party do not share with other government groups on the proposed adjustment proposal. I briefly entered this part of my talk earlier. The union has long spoken of the most so - called expiration route. I'm totally turning her down. Then, repairs speak of what they call a marketing route. Of course, there is no other way to find an expiration route in a ballet outfit. It's just another way out. There'll never be any peace of mind about this. The marine outpost, as important as it is, is designed to prevent such an attack. I think it's far more important that we move on in the process of adapting this fishing environment. There is no one who says so, not even to the builders himself, that the price of fishing is not to be found. It's all about fair and natural approach that the sector can handle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u140	A respectable president. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator referred to the ballet. I know that he was very clever at his feet, even though he may not have put his ballet in his place as a professional profession. We're both more of a dancemaker than we'd rather dance in words. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] There is something else in the ideas of the three government groups, actually two categories, extenuating and Convergence, although Piratars are following, which is a bit special. That, in my opinion, is set up with a purpose in mind. It is the idea of taking part of the fishing warrant and setting up some special fund. I want to go inside. A senator by whether he looks to it in the same way as I do, that it is reasonable for the state to place taxes on a farm company around the country in order to withdraw some fund as politicians, then to share some other factor, perhaps in this community or something else. Does he believe that it will strengthen the future of the communities under which he will or will give those who are in that business all over the country the feeling that it is creating an arrangement for which men have some confidence for a long time?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u141	A respectable president. The short answer is no. I don't think training like that will benefit you, especially the country. I think we're supposed to be looking for a further down payment on our total tax returns than to raise it. It's put in the uniform that men of four-five5% of each year's fishing grounds go to auction and into some fund that's supposed to do some really good things with. Of course, there are limits to what we politicians can be trusted to set aside money for a reasonable purpose. I think that's a lot better for men to do that for themselves. A few years ago, I did business, where property belonging to the operation was 13,000 m2. I'm not sure I had been successful at 65 m2 a year. You'll end up in a place that's out of control. In fact, I reject all the speculations, whatever names they are called, which are about to grow old by recording, as in this case, fishing warrants of companies. It is far more practical to find fair fishing expenditures that can be achieved rather than to take the road to overthrow the environment of the seafront, which I believe, despite the fact that humans in general are content to say is the best operating system in the world. It's not flawless, but I don't know that others were treated better. [[The president calls.]] Also, democracy is not faultless. That's what we live under. But another better system has not been found.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u142	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór, Ólason, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I thought why. A senator carefully reviews my position in the sea, especially my position, and the wide and wide variety of projects around the country. He quoted Deloitte's report to 2016 and 2017 as being involved in strikes, adverse external conditions, market prices, and rising oil prices. Here we are trying to meet these efforts. In the middle of the discussion, the number of vacations is increasing, including to deal with this problem, which we call smaller makings and intermediate sizes that are hard to deal with. I cut it down in my speech anyway. This bill is supported by a senator who drew a point from the opinion of the 1st small part of the employment committee, since then. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson It speaks of linking the release to recovery and using step - change discounts, which are likely to have the same purpose as this transition between discussions, from 20% to 40%, to the majority of that. The pro board proposes. I'm asking why. A senator on the export and the figures, if he has evaluated it, how high he would want to make this step change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u143	A respectable president. I don't have a transfer of those numbers ready. What I may want to achieve during the discussion by coming into this, where I think it is safe to think that although this case is now being completed, it will be replaced by another turn before long, that we focus on it, and put ourselves in gear to the cashiers, how the fishing costs work on each category, the companies within each category, taking into account the survival within the class. There is not one number that is divided over the entire 1,350 parties, if I remember correctly, that are in the preferred system, but are seen how each model class works, what the consequences within it are. It's more of a prince than I've got these suggestions developed, because in less than 1st, we don't come forward with a new proposal, i.e. A member of the Central Party, what? paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, who is on a professional committee. We don't come up with a change in plans because we want to see those thoughts getting into the system. Now I think that's gonna make a maximum discount of 2.4 million, it's now smaller, but I don't think there's much error in this. The export would somehow be that, so to speak, these enterprises, which are between being in this most important category of activities, which enjoy this process, into the intermediate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u144	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer, and of course we agree completely. The objective is the same, to face the problem. Hv. A senator was very careful about the importance of a seabed for solidarity in the country. That, of course, is what this is all about. It is the purpose of this, to give this discount as much as most of it. The pro board proposes, and I support, as it sounds to me. A senator does the same. It's the first memory part, huh? paritaprevir The Sigurður, Páll Jónsson, is actually well aware that in principle he agrees with what is stated in the Committee's Committee for Work, but is rightly suggested by this proposal, he wants to go further, and he has more details, but in principle he agrees. Hv. A senator introduced the development of the job industry, and this has been shown in the discussion with others, including some of them. Yeah. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, worries about the convergence that has taken place in spite of everything. I'm gonna pray. A later member of the body countered to determine what developments will take place. Will this compression continue? I'm prepared for any suggestions. A senator spoke with the highest court. A marine minister on an expiration route would definitely squeeze this thing very fast and safely together in a few companies. But this way, how do you react? A senator will see this happening? And what further steps can we take to cope with this negative trend?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u145	A respectable president. I think the first part of the series is what we may be in part to do now with this bill, i.e. stopping the trend of compression from occurring because of the fishing fee. It's been completely annoying to see the last miseries that especially small and medium-sized structures fall off the train because this flag is too heavy for them to carry. That's step number one. As I came into my speech earlier, I believe a company will have a business problem in the seas like any other industry here so far. It is not unusual for a fishing business to fail. That's the way life is in business. On the other hand, this recent trend has been due to these cruel fishing fees, which have greatly contributed to compression, especially in certain areas. I think to the future this is the first step taken, by returning only in terms of payback, positive. But the next step, of course, must be them, I think, that the destiny will be as great as possible. It is the same in fishing and any other business that there is one of the most valuable things in human life, just plans, and other things to do. All speculations about this so - called expiration route, in any costume, reduce any such firmness in the marine environment. I think it's a good step that's taken with this case, and I hope it works out. But then the next turn will have to be taken, and hopefully it will fall to bring about closer to the creation of general peace. [[The president calls.]] But there is, of course, something left for that journey to be done. But that's what I think is at the front of the line.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u146	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the 2. A greater proportion of cases are available. The employment committee with adaptation proposals, but with the bill it is suggested that there be new overall fishing fees. That leads to a 1st reduction in parts of the history. A professional committee where I can only understand what I'm saying. paritaprevir In principle, the Sigurður Páll Jónsson agrees with the way most of the effort is proposed. Work committee and what. A senator considers this to be mostly improved and suggested on the bill. At that time, a smaller section of the Committee suggests the opinion that there is no opposition to the methodology as a major factor. Marketing Authorisation Holder, i.e. what leads to the fishing factor, that is a rather general dissatisfaction with the fishing regime, and so can the dog. Councilmen did not agree with the methodology proposed in the collection of hunting fees. So here's a suggestion for a logical program from the head of the committee's audience, which is why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, why. paritaprevir Sæland Howil, who has a seat in his head. A job committee, but there is a rare route through a damp schedule. Senator and chairman of the Union, Logi Einar Einarsson. It suggests that the case should be dismissed and at the same time stated that the current law will be extended and carried out in accordance with its requirements until the end of 2019. Is it even? Consuming with the fact that it is because of complete incoherentness and nontranslucentness, it is ambiguous. At the same time, the bow. paritaprevir Einarsson's go! Let's go! Let's go! paritaprevir A Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter and a what. paritaprevir It is noteworthy that Sunna Ævarsdóttir presents a change, and it is of interest that the motion turns largely toward changes in fish control laws. It is possible that an auction plan is provided, which has not been specifically implemented in the discussion but is not implemented in such a way. Speaking of being involved in a profession that requires forethought and harmony, it is thought - provoking when you consider the change proposal and the opinion of the committee as to the less part of the committee as to how the dissociative and unconcerned parts of the memory are and how difficult it is to understand that it is different than that there is no agreement within them at all about how to handle matters or create reconciliation and forethought or the basis for a stable management environment for the job. I'm going to go over the focus of the greater part and give reasons for supporting those suggestions. The objective of the bill and the procedure it offers is to ensure the land's share in the fishing of marine crops, bones, and visible share, as mentioned in Genesis chapter 1. Article 3 of the bill, of course, and of attending the State's cost of research, control, control and management of fishing and the implementation of marine waste. Emphasis in the bill is mainly found in the new currency base of living, that fishing costs are at a rate of 33%. Work continues with the default target the most part places to include to change. This should be done under Almanac wounds and change the management department so that decisions will be made in more time and less time spent in the management of information, that the collection is in full harmony with the quality of the country's resources. All of this is involved in the collection of fishing fees that have had high sound bases in the past, and it is clear that work is based, among other things, on the basis of work. on the demand and effort to make more peace with the fund of hunting fees. Only about 1. Since I listened to an answer. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir daughter at what? paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, of goals rather than money, is explained in the bill's report, and I find it wise to make that statement, a respectable president: It is suggested that the fishing process be referred to in the same way as in the current law, where it is considered to be more in line with the calculus of the bill. When you read the report on the calculus, then methodology, you can see the point of talking about making money instead of making money. I'm just going to review the factors that I drew out and evaluate from the opinion of the greater part of the story. Work committees and the suggestions for the greater part. The bill we discuss is intended to replace current fishing fees, No. 74/2012, which will otherwise be lost on December 31th. Then I'm going to step to 5. The bill, the new formula of the currency so that each year's pay is based on the results of the fishing of each crops, and there is no change in the debates made by the majority of the stocks. However, it is important to present the following points, a respectable president, but I'm going to serve a paper with the bill: In accordance with current legislation, the calculus of the fishing fee is determined on the basis of tax (EBT) profits in the marine soil according to Iceland's Organizational Institute, Hagur fishing and processing, calculated for bottom fish as well as for ocean fish. Due to the time frame at the publication of the report, this is based on at least two-year-old information. This has been a lot of criticism and is here to correct the situation. There must be progress, and a great step from what has been taken, as well as a suggestion that the calculus of the fishing fee will likely reflect the enjoyment of fishing for taxes in the future fishing year of calendar year. Then, too, it is suggested that the news of the World no longer be based on calculations. Instead, data will be based solely on tax returns from the stocks of fishing ships as well as reports for Fish Service on fish prices and prices. Thus, the base of the bill will be much more transparent and more easily understood than the formula of the current layer. This is done in three steps. First, the value of each ship is calculated, withdrawn from the fixed cost and variable costs of the ship to the hunts, and thirdly the share of each ship is calculated by all institutions, the average method, the ratio of two sizes to one pound of virgin labor. This can be said to be the most complex part, a respectable president, and, of course, will not be the source of criticism, e.g. what is involved and in the discussion has also been said that bad motivation may be useful in pushing in more costs, etc. Also, cost of deduction is estimated at the same number as expiry. However, I can also understand the evidence found in the bill's report that interest rates are as high as possible to reflect the growth of the money tied in in production for fishing, and it is certainly important that we secure regular and necessary reinvestments in this article. That is why the reason can be understood. At that time, the European Commission has criticized a 10% increase in the updrafts, but the use of valuables should be transflected or processed to an unfavourable source of resources, using calculations to reduce the registered value of cryopreserved resources by 1/10 and take into account the processing of the ships, increase the registered value of the plants, furs, carbons and macroils by 10%. We're putting in a 10% rise in map levels. They've been criticized, including. by the union of an enterprise in the fishing road, and the wording was approximately insinuating an increase in the fishing fee. However, this is not to be viewed as necessary because in this new system it is not a product of Haust fishing and processing from the Habitat but only with information from the head of the head of the tax on the recovery of fish and in that system, there is no information about the profit of processing in the same way as in the Habitat, including the Habitat. because, of course, there is no searching for him. The conditions in the ocean are different from those in bottom fish, and the prices have been accepted differently since 2012. Since then, as has been the case, the ocean fish has been carrying more economic pressure on progress. We had to fail and are assessed as 10% based on numbers from previous calculations. It's like you're put on the 4th floor. The bill will be paid on the basis of 33%. No doubt this price can be debated and even too high. Here we try to look at the matter with reasonableness, and the report shows fine. I'm just gonna go over it, with President's permission: The bill suggests that the cost of hunting costs should take into account the weight of the road average fishing fee as the proportion of behind the calculated calculus of the bill prior to 2009,2018. You can put it this way, based on General's decisions for hunting fees in those years... Somehow, we must approach this ratio and it is done in this way. In addition, more part - than one reference work suggests that fishing fees will be set at the end of each year for the next calendar wound, rather than being determined in August for the coming fishing year. With this change, the decision for hunting costs is better in line with the official financial law, as stated in the previous report, and is in line with the proposal that the bill will further build tax returns and further projects, as I said before, to the governor. They keep working on the holiday goal, and I think more of it is cool. The employment committee offering a reimbursement of 6. ..................... a practical solution to the problems of my average and medium - sized fishing infrastructure across the country. It was very effective in reviews from various parts of the country and at the work of the Committee and from communities that have much to do with such deforestation, and have had difficulty paying the due price. This is where they're meeting their companies. In fact, this has been very helpful in discussing the matter. The majority thus contributes to an adjustment of 6. Article 3 of the European Commission, of the European Court of Auditors and of the European Parliament. The marine road plays a particularly important role in the structure of its population. It must be the government's rivalry at any given time to administer a fair, even moderate wage. As there are many benefits in this bill for the collection of the pay, to move the fee closer to the time, to the simple administrations, and at the same time to the abnormal fluctuations of the previous currency, you may wonder how high the currency could be and should be. At the same time, I look at the criticism that has been observed by sources regarding this factor and the change in calculus and treatment of costs. That's a fact, and even. In Deloitte's report, confirmed that the conditions of this article have been difficult to deal with, and profits have diminished. The external economics were inexorably in 2016-2017. Prices went down, pay increased, there was a two-month strike, and oil prices increased, with significant increases in income between years, by 10%, and EBITDA by 27%. Of course, there are limits to how much money we can take from one industry. It also points out that if you enter the Haust Office on Possessions of Possessions and Possessions, it's a lot of talk about making big money out of this article and not forgetting that we're paying money. Not to be overlooked. Possessions were 2% in 2017 compared to 9% in 2016, so there are really fluctuations in this article. The value of his own money was 5% and it would not be highly exploitable. In fact, it was very good in 2016, 20%, but we see the fluctuations in it, and that's why decontamination is improving, as we have discussed, and as this is suggested. I encourage it, as soon as most people agree that there are many benefits here, it is suggested that the bodies of the fund, that we create and continue to make peace, and that we may be balanced and reasonable so that the sector can invest, continue to promote research and innovation and provide a basis for innovation for many products, as we have experienced in recent years. There is virtually nothing left of the fish we do not use to produce, but the innovation goes far beyond that, to machines. So we must be careful not to crowd out the potential for the industry so that it cannot contribute to the development we have experienced in innovation over the years, can't reinvent for greater efficiency in fishing and processing, and to continue to be economicly sustainable and to bring forward our valuables to the community, and to be the best along with perhaps - if we talk about these trades, seas, and tourism, which are the sector and, of course, competitive, because we are always competitive with our businesses and companies. The main objective of ensuring the nation's fair share from the resource's profit is to reimburse the price. This is shown in the government contract. Governments. In contrast, spending should be a payment for access to a limited resource and its use. It is important to strengthen the scattered sea settlements and maintain variety of growth potentials to ensure survival. A respectable president. This is where it is being carried out as the ultimate. Governments are on their way. It's important. I appreciate it so much that we can take steps further to make peace in that regard. Since we are indeed closer to the proposed goals, I support this proposal and the changes made by the majority.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for an excellent speech. In his speech, I heard the senator saying that even though there was something to be done for small and intermediate preparations in the current application with the changes made by the majority of the items, he considered it wise to look forward to improving the status of these fishing groups better in time. I just want to know if I understood the senator correctly, whether he sees it as one step of perhaps more to settle these matters so that everyone can enjoy themselves and what he sees about these smaller and medium-sized groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u148	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I'm going to reiterate what I said, I believe that the more part has brought a tremendous change between discussions. I think it's a good idea to go to 40% from 20% off the first six million. But with all the numbers, all the proportions, especially when you look at the poles in this article and all the external conditions that affect the operation, we need to constantly, like I went over in my speech, watch how far we can go in reimburse and work on this basic process. I don't think we can just say here and now, these are the numbers, these are the fees, and if they do, it's done. We constantly need to see how the years of the industry are. That's what I was trying to come to. Of course, 33% or 40% off rate is not a sacred percentage. Hv. A senator spoke earlier to me about the seriousness and stability that are at the same time important. We are continuing to work toward making more sense of what the industry can do. We're repealing the payback. That's fine. We're moving the management department into time, and it's possible that this balance will be restored. We, however, need to appreciate the experience in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u149	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree with the approach he had on my question, that we need to look for ways to adapt the payment of what the business is facing each time. Then I'd like to ask. A senator would consider it wise to consider the next twist, the next dance, to divide the approach into more species than it is currently. Of course, some complete approach is now taken, followed by the discount that comes from below. See what? For example, a senator suggests that it might be wise, for example, to divide the country's plans into four or six categories, for example, without any specific design, rather than approach it as it is today, that there is one group that covers the whole?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u150	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I'll admit I haven't given much thought to this. I have been focused on examining this system as it has been and the suggestions that have been discussed and out of the exchange of the fish. It's been complicated enough to form a fair calculus for the map and bottom fish. Then we're holding back some species that come on every once in a while so we don't take their fees. Whether we can classify the companies, which I think we can call. Of course, a senator was referring, and the thinking of the committee party was in harmony with that in less detail. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll's Jónsson John, somehow stepping in. Then you may be thinking about how we sort the factory companies. You can think of some sort of classification, whether they have fishing and processing or just doing or doing things, how the companies are classified and how they use the resource. I think it's a good idea, but I'd say I wasn't even here right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u151	A respectable president. I believe that discussions about fishing and perhaps mainly the eating system and fishing costs bring out the worst in Icelandic politics and politicians. It seems that we have an extremely difficult time discussing these things without being ready to believe the worst of them all. I've been tracking nationalities for a few hours, and I think it's been like this for a long time. In the past, people used to argue about subsidies, fast - freezehouse funds - what were these funds? Now we're arguing about hunting costs, saying goodbyes, how this is going to be done, but we're having a bit of a bad time talking about it out of some kind of corruption. But I'm going to try to do my share tonight to do so. I hope people respect the will for the job. To me, it's like a lot of other stuff on the ground. It's very simple. Then I'm talking about just in the ground. Then there are more complicated implementations. Perhaps because of how simple I myself am in the ground, I try to strip the matter down to simplify the subject, "How do I want to see this coming? " What is it that I believe must be an environment for an Icelandic seabed and an Icelandic nation? To answer, I want Icelandic fishing to be self-sustained. I want us to use the fish stocks here in a sustainable way. I want it to be sustainable in that it contributes to environmental fishing and processing, that it will develop better and better in the direction in which it has done well and contribute to the huge work we all face, which are climate issues. I want him to be self-sustained, that he doesn't need all the funds I listed up here and all that, but he's just standing his self-sustaining feet. And I want the nation to gain fair gain from the use of their resources. It's a simple picture I'd like to paint of what I want to watch when considering Icelandic fishing roads. Then there is a fine tuning point to be high, how much demand is to be made toward environmental fishing, how well to strengthen and prepare for sustainable management, and how much the nation's resources are to be used. Having a view of one of these factors, feeling that the charges should be so or queer, or that they should just go somewhere else, people don't necessarily make bad people, or they've got some scary views, or they're gonna get a rug. They may just have a different viewpoint, be there to discuss things, go some other way. That is why I have listened attentively to the speeches of various secular authorities on their ideas about operating in the fishing grounds, as we are discussing the payment of the marine road. We're not talking about the fishing system. I've heard a lot of interesting ideas there. There's been talk of switching casts up here. This is where we've talked about auctions. This has been a discussion of reassignment. This has been a discussion of fences on auctions, and this has discussed hunting costs, etc., many excellent ideas worth discussing without excitement. We do not scream at one another about changing our views on these matters. I think that's what we'll do by talking to each other without the bridals and the goons. They're making arrangements for the collecting fees. It's a very big word for it. It's a device, this is a means by which you can use the common resource of the nation to collect fishing fees, which are a kind of waste disposal of the country's common resource. We have discussed a number of matters in this regard, how to spend that amount of money, from setting up funds where these go to the national part of the country to just get paid, and becoming new to the many needs there. Fine, let's talk about it, but the arrangements for the fishing fees are what a ocean leader has provided a bill. As I mentioned earlier, the discussion often seems to bring out the worst in us politicians. Perhaps there is a misunderstanding between us, for just as we executives find it difficult to understand the changes made by some political groups, in at least some political opposers - I'm not going to go so far as to say that they have trouble understanding, but they talk about this as a very complex and disagreeable system. I don't agree with that. I think it's a good way to create just a relatively beneficial system for how we collect fishing fees. Let's start there at the beginning, Mr. President. There's nothing to go back to. We have a lot of people who have been involved in politics over the last few years, talked about the importance of a) currency being moved closer in time, and b) that it is an extension. It's been heading left green for a long time. Our proposals that became law when we were in the government with the United States went out on it, it was moved as close in time as possible then. Sadly, the distance between two, two, and a half, three years could not be reached, and that was offline. Now the arrangement has changed, so it is possible to move as close to a real time as there is any hope unless we weigh on a dock. Maybe one day we'll get there that it's just gonna be possible to see it after each tour, and it tickled into the box. But we're not there yet. But we've moved it as close as possible in time, and we've created this system, where we've created a calculator that shows what it is that it can count as a cost to get the catch. And what remains? Yes, it is, and it takes 33% of the money. Even to me, who chose a course for me in high school depending on how little math was taught there, they are able to see that it is a relatively simple system. Then we really can't talk about it. If we admit that it is right to move this in time, that it is right to be removed, it is not particularly reasonable to look at the change in the collections of hunting costs from year to year and to stop there. That is an unfair saying because we are not paying for one year. In fact, the new rule should not go into effect until January 1, 2020. But because we're off-duty, it just means what I've seen, though, is missing from the back of many whales. managers who seem to stop only on December 31, 2018, to improve the status of the project, better management yields higher fishing costs in 2020. If the present system had been around people, what fishing charges would have come in 2020? 2.5 billion. I don't have the number in my head, or I don't know if they've been calculated to exactly what the business recovery will be according to the new system in 2020 because it hasn't taken effect. We'll see who she is next year. The amount will always change. I hope so. Government opposers will stand here in vain as excited as the government is raising their hunting costs as they rise from 2019 to 2020, and they are amazed that we are lowering them. That would be fair. However, overcrowding about fishing and fishing costs may be taking place. The point is, this is a very useful system. Of course, there is a much simpler, more efficient system, indeed, and it will ever be. I don't know how, I'm just looking at this system, this proposal of the highest. A seaman minister I think is amazing but true, quite reasonable. Maybe it's the dollar genes that do it. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] She's so smart, I understand her. I understand that the amount will swing after the construction. But I understand that we, as the nation, who hold the trust fund, will take 33% after the calculus has been performed. Then it swings up and down as we've talked about being made. President. We also discuss adjustments, and I'm not going to comment on any other suggestions. The majority of the job committees have found that we seem to be mistaken for each other about quite a lot of things. I'm not going to take the chance that I'm misindicating the changes I make in the part that I don't fully understand. It's not some play, it's just like that. I have asked, and I have not yet received satisfying answers, so I understand them. That may say more about me than the suggestion, although in fact some seem to share my opinion. But what has more of the employment committee done? Yeah, except for holding 11 meetings and inviting 100 visitors, the head of the trade department called in, why. paritaprevir At the beginning of her discussion, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir insisted that changes in the bill would be made, in effect, that there would be a special consideration for small and medium-sized development so that everyone would know it from the fact that the case was presented two months ago. Yes, the greater part has done just that, suggested that the cost of offhands be changed so that the first discount of 6 million of the fishing costs would be increased to 40%. What does that mean? Yes, the highest rate of hunting costs is about 2.4 million. Personally, I would have liked it not to go up the whole ladder, and maybe it's a political disaster for me to remind it here that it does. But I don't want this play anymore. I just want us to be honest about this. I'm going to claim that 2.4 million discounts are not all that mattered to the operation of HB Granda. I didn't want that 2.4 million for HB Grandi. But it's more complicated, other laws must be considered, etc. Maybe we can do it sometime, I don't know. However, I find it more important that these two - million - year - olds are given to little ones in many parts of the country. It would be better if these were billions of people I was talking about, Mr. President. I look at the benefits of it, and I am proud to accept the suggestion. A senator and director of the professional road committee, Magnúsdóttir Hyn Island Magnúsdottir. We can have opinions about whether this is the right system, whether it's the best system. We can assume that there is some very different way to collect prices, and that's just the way it is. On the other hand, I don't give anything to the government's speech that this case has not been handled professionally and that three categories of government opposition have been proposed; the Group, Pirata, and Lursonian, is some proposition. I'm more responsible for politics than I do for two. one bill is a transformation of other laws. I spoke here about a play earlier. We have all participated in a play in these discussions. Government leaders have done so. Government opposers have done so. I'm just going to say that I view this proposal of the government opposers, which is presented as a great offer of reconciliation, but I didn't even get us until five minutes before the proposal was made. We didn't get one, did we? Advertisers on a professional committee, or the weather of trying to make such a peacemaker. Maybe they could have started there. If, then, the real will of the three political groups was to settle, why were the smallest staff, a professional committee, not started? Because, of course, there was never a way to settle the matter. This is part of the drama that has been discussed in the fishing business, has spent far too long in Icelandic politics, and I hope this is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u152	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He started with talking about this discussion that would have brought the worst into view. Councilmen here. I can't agree that the discussion has brought out the worst in me, so I want to make sure of it. A senator says that just a little more is needed. But, hey. A senator wants to discuss matters carefully, and I understood him at the beginning of his talk that his speech was a special part of a deliberate discussion, and he would then want to add to our indecisional discussion of the government. I'm not sure what. A senator has done well in this regard, but I would like to ask him why. A senator who is very fond of and well supportive of these suggestions. A sea leader, whether or not he has already changed his mind and has left behind the greens on the fishing grounds, consisting of a mixture of outlaws and temporary contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u153	A respectable president. I didn't feel like an outlet. At my comments, a senator may be helping to raise the discussion in some way in a higher level, unless I may have become so confused.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u154	Yeah, I think it must be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u155	Possibly, yeah. paritaprevir "Oddný G." Harðardóttir, or possibly 'wah." A senator thus felt that things can be misunderstood and that he would try to draw them out. Who knows? I was discussing general political discussions with these matters, not why. G. A Harðardóttir I value but not that I take her as some special fortune to 63 members of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u156	You just called her proposal a play.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u157	I'm sorry. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, I didn't hear you say what you said. Would you like to participate in the discussion here, or may I continue? [[Up front.]] As for the proposals of the left green, I agree with the rightness of the left control. paritaprevir In 2012, Oddný G. Harðardóttir spoke extensively. I agree from a word to a number of discourses. paritaprevir The 2012 Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter spoke for the proposal for a special fishing fee that was to move it as close as possible to a time and based on an offline, exactly what we are doing right now. I was having an interview with what? A senator the other day, since she called it "lofty-slowness." I disagree. A senator with the left United States government and the left green had come to the proposal for larval rightness. I agreed with those suggestions. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'll come in on the rest of the--What? [[Up front.]] There will be no other answer. Then I'll just have to take a rain check.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u158	A respectable president. Admittedly, there have been a number of discussions about my bill to new fishing fees. This discussion has continued for a considerable time, but the people who have spoken have gone far and wide in the field. Of course, there are different viewpoints, and much is discussed about terms and agreements. The problem may be that we have different successes in understanding the ways in which we feel that the reconciliation is achieved, that we are doing just as well as saying what changes are in which we speak. Here's some suggestions for advising a treatment from a professional committee that is in charge of supporting and strengthening the so - called fiscal target or person discount that is of particular benefit to those paying the lower portion of the fishing fee. Smallly large productions are greatly supplemented with the discount, and a greater proportion of minor suggestions are available from a greater part of the labour board. First, I want to thank the Committee for a lot of good work and a full review of the bill. I believe the committee has taken a very careful hearing and given this matter a very good time. It's been two months since they admitted the matter to the council and advised it. A number of guests have met with the committee, and a number of reports have been received from most unlikely social groups and individuals. I also made it clear that I went to a meeting with people, and I got a lot of response to their meetings, discussions, and criticism, and encouraging suggestions into the fishing discussion, so I believe that the matter has been given a fine discussion in its entirety. However, I miss the material discussion that we have discussed on the main points of the bill. The word has much more discussion about the fishing system itself. I'm not minimizing this discussion, but I would have chosen to handle more of the methods suggested to calculate the sum of a common resource. I'm convinced that the system, as it is installed in the bill, is a major improvement in the existing system. This is a great improvement, and I believe, in fact, that much of the reviews here led to that even. Shows that there are some fundamental factors in the bill that are large and good partnerships, such as trying to stretch out the pressures of this calculated amount of time, make it more transparent, make it more reliable to the application, link it better with the production of the land. I think that we can all agree that it is much more reliable and reliable to have the calculation of the budget laid on the bill than the existing arrangement to gather the information on survival in general in hunting and processing for the whole country and in the context of the management agency, the Habitat. This information is then added to the Commission Committee, appointed three individuals as Ministers and all the most potential, but has limited ability to process the information provided. The lack of accuracy in handling information has been shown to be considerable. Whatever position you choose to take in this regard is undisputed, and I have sensed it in the discussion that since it began, there are certain factors that are common to all those here. Much more is involved in the way we want to see the control of the country's fish. The basic issue in the bill as it is presented, and I see it only verified in the payment of a greater part of the employment network, is that the price of hunting is laid on access to the country's common resource. The price to be paid for the common cost of government care and use the resource in the form of marine research, observation, research and other factors, as well as the requirement for paying also a share in the implementation of the project to the State in addition to this fixed cost. At that objective, the bill stands. A majority of the employment committees confirm this in their proposal to the council. I'm glad you're here. At the end of this discussion, I would like to thank all those who have worked hard to work on the bill of the Committee and all who have been involved in the discussion this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u159	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for his entry. After being present and listening to the talk, I think 99% of the talks have been made clear. Some things are really just a confirmation of what was long known. I know it's the highest. Minister went through the country. I know he had a lot of meetings, like sea officials, and any Ministers should do when they introduce basics, they're to go through the country, they're to introduce it, and they're to try to do it as best they can. However, when it comes to making peace, it is especially a matter of spiritistic reconciliation. I'd like to mean that with our proposals here, on the one hand of temporary negotiations and, on the other hand, the building fund or whatever we would like to develop a contribution further to building up the country, we're making a recommendation on our part that it can be agreed on a matter that we've heard in the past that all classes, except the Independence Party, are willing to reach, i.e. in one way or another, temporary new agreements. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why was there no consultation, either in spring or in autumn? Why not make phone calls, even if it was only a question of the government, advice, and listen to the possibility of this reconciliation? Besides how wonderful it would have been if we had set the matter in one cooperative process, which they would likely delight in many of these progressive groups, putting it in one such process. We were ready. We were ready. I think there's a song to do that, because after everything we've been talking about, I want a particular nerve, which can unite us here in taking well and complete on the seaside so that it will be in the interest of him, this important piece of employment, but also in the interests of the people. [[The president calls.]] I'm wondering why they didn't try this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u160	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. There are many reasons why I chose not to appoint some transliterian group for this work. It's a board of directors' bill. Government policy is indicated in that. I believe it is only natural that we deal with the policies established here at the council Hall, both at the council Hall and at the Senate Committee that have given us this fine time, with the result that we are still holding this far between the political elements of this council. I have no single conviction that we would be in another situation today, considering the implementation of the ideas here for changing the bill. I'll be the first to admit that I'd like to understand more fully the thoughts behind the proposals for the changes presented here by Pirates, Convergence, Correction. But in the last two days, I feel that even those who say that the proposal doesn't understand her exactly what it will be like in the past. I just point out the relatively small point, but an enormously large factor, which has been shown in the discussion here and may crystallize this large dispute, which is about reassignment or discharge. When I mention this here, the chairman of the convention moans and doesn't like the discussion, that I'm putting it out. This is where I consider the biggest disagreement in the last two days on this matter. It's just that simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u161	Madam President. It is clear when there is no reconciliation, and when it is, it could be said, a determined transgression to misunderstand our proposal and not to listen to what we're saying. There's nothing else in our proposal than a temporary contract. No change, even on the current currency system, really. No, no change. It's as if they don't want to listen, and it's just intent on doing it, don't want to make peace, and it's because of something. It is fine to get this straight, and it would also be good to get clear of the political issues to follow the government covenant for greater consultation, reconciliation, conversation with the government, and noncommunicational politics. Again and again, that is a wonderful opportunity for the highest. A sea chief minister and for the government to come to terms and settle, where all the people will have to yield something. But there's a thread there, and I'm still on it, whether they want to call some Pollýanna in it or not, that we can settle for this enormously important profession. She needs it, and society needs it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of another question, hoping to get an answer. The discussions have made with the Independence Party that he views this as an indefinite fishing right. This was clear, and it was repeated on the part of independents. On the part of the left green and the prime minister primarily, perhaps the one who spoke most clearly on their part, made it clear that she looked at this as a temporary right. Untrusted to tell if there was a year, three years old, or five years old. This is why I'm calling the case back to the committee. I'd appreciate it if a seafaring minister could explain to me whether he'd look at this as a bill in the direction of untimely rights, endless fishing rights, or that there's only one way to recall it. That's what I want to warn you. I would like to warn of the transformation that could be made in this way. The question is: Does a sea chief minister view this as an indefinite right, such as a member of the Independence Party, or does he share a prime minister's opinion that this is a temporary fishing right? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u162	A respectable president. We'll talk about a bill here to set up a fishing fee. In 1st. Of the control of the fish which I hear is the mood. However, a senator, who is a different law, stands by permission of a president: [[Up front.]] Under these laws, the distribution of fishing warrants does not constitute the ownership or the unregistered custody of the individual bodies of the fish market. It's very simple and clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u163	Answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u164	President. A respectable senator is a little out of tune. I'm just asking permission and privacy to finish my case. This is a very clear letter, and this is the idea that came up. A senator and Reunion are trying to get changed into a fish - control law. We're talking about a fishing bill here, which is a completely different law. To the basic question as a dog. A senator has: It is discussed that it is merely a reassignment of largely correct fishing materials. But I've asked and asked, e.g. Here in front of you sooner tonight. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, president of the United States: How should the fishing fees be collected after reassignment to the same party? There has not been one idea of how to then calculate the cost of hunting from this proposal. It may be very simple how it is done. But as long as these ideas are not presented, the case, in my opinion, goes nothing further than tonight or the last few days. The responsibility, along with the rest of our society, is to convince the government of their own initiatives. I have not been able to deal with the discussion that governments do not want to understand what is presented here. However, the explanation, the suggestions, has not been reached for some reason. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u165	Madam President. I'd like to direct it to the Presidency Committee, so I'll stick to the President's conference board, and have to try to make the highest statement. Minister to answer questions. It has become a little bit foreign that ministers do not answer simple questions and bring a twist. Perhaps it is in the spirit of the highest. Ministers are using themselves, not to make peace, trying to understand or talk to people. When ministers are asked simple questions, we ask senators who provide their own resources, no matter how it is combined - it's the role of government opposition to maintain control, and that's why I asked for the word, because it happens repeatedly, not just at the highest level. Secretary of the sea, who has gotten into trouble with this matter, as well as with other advisers. So I'm directed to the Presidency Committee for Ministers to give a clear answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u166	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. Senators must see the peculiar view of the problem. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of the prime committee, should somehow interfere with the answers to questions. Here people have the opportunity to ask questions. Of course, those to whom questions are addressed, ministers, or members of Congress will answer to the best conscience and best of their ability. While the answers may be unsatisfied or satisfied, the answers are made in the open, and they are responsible for the political proclamations they make. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir can affect certain aspects of the council, but it is well - known that a prime committee will intervene in order to direct the precise answers to questions she raises during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u167	Madam President. In many ways, I agree. paritaprevir The bear of the Birgir son of Ármannsson, chairman of the Independence Party. This is just the right thing to say, although I stick to the fact that I find it hard not to get clear answers. What I'm pointing to is that whatever it is, whatever it is, the government is seeking to maintain control. Then there is the answer to informing the discussion. They're here to help things out, and they're so we can actually see the lawgiver's will. We're in 2nd. is of utmost importance, and it really matters what the law is. That's when it's even important. it's important to a spokesman and the lead producer of the bill, the highest. Minister, explain exactly what happened. Justices, since this case is very likely to come to court. Many matters related to fishing are involved. It is important that the lawgiver's true will be informed. It's my thinking, and I hope that people don't take it badly, but no matter what the point is, I'm just going into the Senate and I'm redirecting it to the government, but it matters that in such important matters, what the real will and understanding of the Lawgiver is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u168	Madam President. I wanted to come up here to remind you of a council case that has been given several times as the minister of truth. There has been other names. It would be interesting to have it through the council, especially with regard to the granting of the Generals. That's exactly what's happened, without me saying it happened right now, so you can think of a minister telling the council not necessarily. I feel quite normal that there is a clearer requirement for a minister of information to the council than there is now. As I say, it may not seem appropriate to me to deal with this situation, but I still wanted to come up and remind them because I feel that it is important to strengthen the council against being told the truth. I'd also like to tap it at the end, if I don't want to change our counter-reguage arrangements, that I think it's rather tacky that tradition or behavior of the highest order. Ministers to protest the proposals of the less part of the council with something that has nothing to do with the suggestion but not to discuss with members of the council who recommend this proposal. [[The president calls.]] I think that's kind of lame.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u169	A respectable president. I support the general view that people answer questions that are directed to them. The other day, I tried to have a word with one man. A member of the U.S. government official said that he would take it very seriously that I wanted to get answers to questions and said that he had not known that he would be in a verbal test. I don't think so, but I don't know why. Senator. I remind you, this is the council seminar. We are here 63 senators discussing the laws we make. V.E.G. Kristján Þór Júlíusson's minister to seafaring is just one of the 63 members of Congress. If we are going to start digging in how we have answered one another in reply, that is no further concern. Kristján Þór Julietsson Júlíusson of the sea, but only another what? Parliamentaries who have participated in discussions. This is the seminar where we should be exchangeing our views, and it doesn't matter which office we're in and out of here. This is where we're talking, and we all vote together. [[The president calls.]] Consider, too, how we personally respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u170	Madam President. We're close to the end of this case, and I want to be the manager of the case on the job committee and the head of the professional authorities say a few words at the end. It has been shown that there are reasonable opinions on this matter, to which it was not expected. But I can say that, and I think the commissionees can agree with that, that there was a great deal and a good discussion about this subject, and there were good questions from the number of guests who came before the committee. We had this case for two months for a detailed discussion on the Committee, and it did not include any requests for guests or other treatment of the case on the committee. It was well ahead of us when to take the matter out. I believe that there was a lot of good work on the committee, and during a committee job there was no complaints that something was wrong in the work of the Committee. I don't think there's anything else to say but that everything has worked out and we all have, whether it's more part or less, joined in calling out as much as most of the questions in the case that woke up and trying to draw out the answers the visitors to the questions that were naturally presented in this matter. I believe that the proposal for a job committee is also that it was the whole time on the job committee that it was being approached to further strengthen by some means a discount or a credit target for the small and medium-sized outputs and look to it. This conclusion was reached which I consider to be very practical for my company. We hear from society that there's a section of information about this bill in the article itself. As we expected, criticism is coming from a variety of sources, and criticism is that the fishing costs under the bill are going to be too high. Others feel that the fishing costs are reducing, and still others want to be more supportive to small and medium - size productions in which there is a risk of structural disorder and the result of problems with management conditions and extreme fluctuations in the preceding article. But somewhere, we have to land, and I believe this bill is very close to what has been working on since 2012, in fact, since the price of hunting was set, i.e. to ensure more eco-efficiency and stability and equal fluctuations by drawing up information on the tax benefits of relevant enterprises and the information on the value of species in Fish Labs, processing data, and paying on expenses compared to the profits of the making. The average amount of budgetary expenses is taken. This is based on the current formula set at 33.3% of pressures. This may fluctuate and increase or decrease after each article's release. I think it's very important that we as Congress agree to stand by extending hunting fees, as I think most politicians did. I understand a lot of people in this room making changes in the fishing system, and they look like they're different. I've always been in favor of reevaluating the fishing system itself and serving on a social committee for almost two years, in 2009-2013. Sadly, this did not come to a conclusion, although it was a parapolitic reconciliation committee. But now we're dealing with fishing costs, we're not dealing with fish control laws. Much has been discussed here about the direction of the left greens in the fishing business, which is, of course, very good. All classes would pick her up and make her their own. Perhaps at some point it will be in the future. But we left greens, in cooperation with two other categories, and we make ourselves a government contract, with a policy to work on the establishment of the fishing fees as most legitimately linked to the survival of each article, that there will be a powerful and varied work in the coastal areas, and that we will strengthen less settlements and further coastal fishing. I want to thank you again for the excellent discussions that have been in radiances and charts, such as the fishing road. The discussion here has been a bit like the chart on fishing grounds for profits, fluctuations, gang swings, and other factors affecting the article. I hear from the main hall that people are getting very excited to finish this discussion, and I suggest that the matter be taken to a professional committee between the 2nd and 3rd. I expect we'll have some visitors between the 2nd and 3rd. Once again, thank you for this fine conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u171	Madam President. This meeting has now been postponed at approximately 45 minutes. There has been no explanation. Especially was it requested when an agreement was made regarding the Congress that the affairs of the minister of foreign affairs be handled here. I'd like to know if it was the highest. The minister of foreign affairs cannot appear in the platform within two minutes of the breakup of the General Assembly meeting. It's not possible to offer a plagion world for this kind of work, especially when it turns out so, and you hear the shots to the highest level. A minister is talking to a foreign television station and has the council wait for him at night meeting. He was here earlier tonight. There was plenty of time for those in charge to stand aside for the minister if there had been any desire. [[The president calls.]] But they were chosen not to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u172	V.E.G. President. There have been some changes in the evening program, but it was announced at a council meeting that we both sat on, me and the other. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Steindordsson, that here may be a meeting until midnight, or longer, if necessary, to finish certain matters that were specified and discussed at this meeting, another will be scheduled in an agreement. Well, it just happened tonight, to the highest. The minister of state came into this house, as reported. However, it was known and tried to make it clear that the minister was in an interview at a certain time in the British national television station, so it was clear that he would not be in the conference room at that time. This is being latered, but within the framework and within the agreement made here this morning, and why. There must be a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u173	Madam President. I do not particularly remember that in this agreement it was said that a meeting could continue until midnight, but perhaps there are different experiences of it. And I honestly remember not saying that the U.S. Senate should be prepared to wait for more than an hour to begin. A minister would be able to come here and plead. I suggest, as it is known that there is no need to present these matters, that meetings will be terminated, and later done. It's very simple to do so, Madam President. I strongly request that this charade be terminated and the meeting terminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u174	V.E.G. President. I don't think there's much to it about being a part of a charade or something. paritaprevir Jón, the son of Valdimarsson, who here speaks as if he had righteousness and truth on his side, though not. Here's a simple gate. This morning at a meeting of the council groups, it was considered that a discussion about fishing would be completed. At the request of a government stand, votes were postponed until the weekend. At the same time, five EEA cases were discussed, and the president concluded that this program would be delayed. We've been trying to figure out how the program worked out here tonight, and we'd probably still be in the fishing discussion if it happened. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson and his party associates would not have dissuaded this evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u175	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 21/2018, which recommend the implementation of the European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 2014/599/EU for restoration and restoration of loan institutions and stock markets into the EEA Convention. In the 2014/59 Directive, it is recommended that responses and measures to deal with the difficulties and trauma of the loan and stock market are addressed with the aim of ensuring that such events do not compromise financial and economic stability. It is thus recommended that such companies and institutions make a special reform program that prepares them for difficulties in business. In addition, it is stated that a specific administration or administration unit, called the competent authority, will provide a specific return plan that can be undertaken quickly if necessary to cope with the trauma of the big loan business. In addition, the directive's aim is to minimize the negative consequences of financial problems if it comes to them by ensuring the continued systematic importance of the enterprise or the enterprise, while limiting the risk that the business's problems require donations from the state's funds. To achieve that goal, there is also a difference between the two of us. information on the availability of the surveillance facility for timely intervention in financial companies and if applicable due to the return of the Member States. If financial companies need to have a return therapy, a special means may be used to finance return therapy. A respectable president. Induction of Directive 2014/59 here on land requires adjustment of the law. The induction is subject to the secretary of finance and economics. Part of the directive's directive was legalized during the last legislation by law No. 54/2018, about a change in financial law. It is assumed that the following regulations of the directive will be implemented by a sentence of a new overall restoration layer and financial return therapy. It is planned that financial and economic secretarys will provide its bill on the current legislature board. The bill will set up rules for the preparation and implementation of return therapies and other aspects associated with restoration and financial return therapy. As the induction calls for a change in law, the decision of a joint EEA committee was No. 21/2018 taken under controlled warning. According to Article 3 of Congress, such administrative notice must be put aside by concedition, and it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in the decision so that the government's premium can be removed. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u176	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the review of this matter, which is worthy of all interest. When I read the report with this proposal for Congress and, in fact, all the others we have for now - I'll only mention it because I'm not exactly going into the matter myself - I notice that in the four of these suggestions, chapter 2 of the report is called the EES Convention's recording and the administrative notice. These are chapters that are identical in all four interpretation guidelines, but there is not a comparable chapter in the Senate arrangement of the 102/2018 case, i.e. to confirm the determination of the joint EEA on a change in XII. Annex, of Union rights, and accounting 37 that contains the file set out in 101st paragraph. On the EEA contract. No, I'm sorry. Now I read out of the wrong order. The blessed numbers are always confusing. What I meant to say is that this is not in a synonym of 152/018, of the determination of the joint EEA Committee to change the XI. An appendix on electronic communications, audio and image sharing and information community. First of all, it's the way I see it. The chapter has come in, so why isn't it in all the terms for Congress? I don't exactly see the basis for it. In the case we are considering, I would like to read, by permission of a president, 1 mg. in this new chapter. It says: Each year, several of the EU types are included in the EEA Convention with decisions made by the Joint EEA Committee. However, there is a relatively low percentage of the total number of types agreed by the EU. A report by the Ministry of State, conducted for the better implementation of the EEA Convention, shows that between 1994 and the end of 2016 Iceland took up 13.4% of the types adopted by the EU during the same period. I'm wondering what the material purpose of this sentence is in the four issues that are under tonight. What does this add to support for the Congress arrangement? Is it reasonable to assume that the percentage of what is published there will be calculated every time a Congress resolution has been made regarding the EEA Convention so that we can monitor it closely? I would suggest that we be added to a decimal so that we could keep a close eye on the percentage. I think it's very strange to put this into these articles, and I don't understand the meaning of this purpose at all, what it means to these conclusions, to understand them, or to make progress. The proportion of these types and the number of European rights we record are very much concerned. There's been a division of meanings, and it looks like a different person. I would like to read here from an answer published on a so - called European web, which was an information board on the European Union and the European Union by permission of presidents: The European Union's impact on legislation has been investigated in Member States. However, the results of such tests are difficult to compare, since they are often fundamentally different. First, the EU's impact is defined in different ways. In most cases, the term is used only for the induction of policies in the Member States law, but sometimes a definition is used that includes any incentive derived from the European Union and leads to legislation in the Member States. Second, there are different national legislation for analysis (primary legislation, secondary legislation or both). I believe it is right to reiterate that here we are talking about the introduction into the European Union itself. I continue to quote this answer: ▪ Studies have been carried out in Member States, but they are difficult to compare, with different circumstances, to their general basis. The European Union gives various weight-changing laws: Directives are binding for each Member State to their objective, but the competent authorities in each State are placed in each way and by which the objectives will be met. The measures are generally valid, are binding overall, and are applicable in all Member States without further legalisation. The decisions are fully binding for those to whom they are directed.◯ And I continue: The EU's effectiveness studies on the regulations of Member States are often based only on the implementation of policies, not regulations or decisions. Thus, a review of the effectiveness of EU initiatives in Britain between 1987 and 1997 showed that 15.5% of EU regulations and regulations and types, so I am now using the right translation, reaching big parties and, in effect, all of what comes from the European Union, have been adopted by the British. I continue to quote this answer and address a study conducted in Denmark in 2003. There it turned out to be 14%. Dutch regulations found this to be 12.6%, 10.6% of all Austrian laws, and 14.1% of Austrian regulations. There must be some point in publishing this number, so I'd like to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Is this a combination, then, comparable to what I was witnessing in this answer? The European Union does not record except some of the types that are derived from the European Union itself. If there's something to say with these numbers that I don't really understand what they are, I think it's some comparison of the European Union's impact in Iceland and somewhere else. It is most natural to compare the effects in the European Union itself with those in Iceland. Then, according to these figures, we are implementing a ratio similar to that of the European Union itself. Is that a correct conclusion or not? The point is, I don't understand why they're putting this into the report. It's kind of impossible for me to realize what this purpose is. What are they trying to say? Who's being told this? Does it matter if it's 5% or 20%? Has the highest. The minister and his Ministry some special goals on the proportion of these proportions? So, then, are there some sort of danger zones? I don't get it. I don't get it. Minister, I know you will answer this with great wisdom. I don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u177	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this discussion. Today, members of the European Union have consistently claimed that we record 7,960 percent of all types of the European Union. It's documented in all the interviews and talks and what it is now. In fact, the European Union takes only a very small percentage of its own types up in its own countries. That's an interesting point, and I think it's right. A senator rushed into telling the EU. I'm saying they have no idea, no idea. Hv. A senator asks: "What is the goal of informing this? " I say, the objective is to inform you because the EU-seas have been digging systematically under the EEA Convention for a very long time, not for months, not days, not weeks, not years, but decades. They've already undermined the EEA agreements by saying that we're recording almost everything from the EU. These numbers are public, chatty, not new. They show it in black, that because we only have part of the contracts currently going on, it's just the contracts to the inner market - we're just shooting 13.4%. It is of interest that this has irritated the EU spokesman in this country. He thought it was completely impossible: What are they doing putting in this information? Usually, the government is accused of lack of information, and it is said: "Why aren't you informing us? But here it is: Wait, why is this being reported on on in the first place? I'll tell you what my aim is, a respectable president, and I'll say it to what. A senator, a spokesman for the European Union. It is clear to determine what the EEA contract is doing. What does that mean? This means that all items needed to be corrected by EU-severs in the discussion for a very long time. It's just one of them. Men have also ruthlessly claimed that we have nothing here to say, even though everyone knows, and it's in the EEA Convention, that we can affect the early stages and even when it passes. They have also claimed that the euro is our most important exporter, although everyone they consider knows it's the dollar. I just hope that a spokesman for the European Union will come back here and blame me for continuing to inform the facts of the United States. I welcome his criticism and will try to live up to it every day, not just as long as I am the minister of foreign affairs, but every day. For what you have found, especially in the last days and weeks, is that there is a real need to get the right information through. I can go on. Even the European Union spokesmen want to take away our freedom of business. They want to take the freedom of business from the Icelanders. They claim that being in the European Union is more business freedom. Especially will the Council members of the Cradle exert themselves vigorously. When I informed that we had 90 percent of the tax freedoms compared to the customs number - the tax number in Iceland and the European Union is about as many - compared to 26% in the European Union, I was attacked by a grassroot. She called me every liar. I can claim it's all because everyone in the wood court is in the council except one person, and that's the Supreme Court's attorney, Sveinn and Andri Sveinsson, and he said it in a public field. These are just the facts. I found this information by a couple of hook-up routes, reviewing it. No, that's not true, that's another report that didn't even make it in a review report when we were at the death of the European Commission on the decision to negotiate business relations with the EU. But if you do. A senator who I think wasn't completely clear in his language and all well with that is referring to what I've been attracting the attention of the European Union's real spokesmen of - and then I refer to those in Brussels - i.e. induction is not the same as induction. There have been reviews - and not Icelandic people, Icelandic scholars, but books on it - how they introduce the types. That is a cause for rejoicing for us. We are involved in the internal markets, and the same rules for everyone in there should be. That's good. This means that Icelandic companies can compete on equal terms on this large market. But that is how, and the Brussels power is not particularly happy when I record it, that it has been considered that there is a big difference between how a person enters. Of course, I think it's the highest. The Foreign Affairs Committee should take a specific look, and I've recorded it on the scene of EFTA and EES. We talked about it, including. in the meetings last week, when it comes to considering how this is introduced, there are three countries, based on the research I have seen, which will fully introduce it as it should be done and that is Denmark, Sweden, and Finland. According to researchers, only some are like dead letters. It's some kind of induction, but people just don't follow it. That is serious news for us, and we need to continue in our interests. In case of a moment. A senator has been referring to what I thought wasn't quite what he was doing. Hv. One senator asked: "Why are these things being brought to the attention? The answer is: This is because the EEA contract is being informed. It was the obvious military programme of the EU to speak down the EEA agreement and it has been shown to be ruthless over and over again, year after year, indeed, for decades, in order to reach the conclusion that it is so impossible to go to the EU alone. What has become a bit special in this situation is that those who claim to be a follower are that we're outside the EU - and I want to believe that that that's the largest part - are taking up the same procedure. The biggest EU experts and the most agitated opposers are using the same information, which is not the correct information, but that makes the discussion very strange. And, hey. Senator, this is a new one. I've been in this room so many times where people have just said, "Why are these things being kept secret?" Why is this not being informed? But here comes why. A senator who says: "What are you trying to tell me about this? Keep that away from us! But that's just something we're not going to do, a respectable president. We will continue to inform people and are just beginning to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u178	Madam President. I'm beginning to think it's the running bee wolf in the highest. Secretary of state. I asked him a simple question, what was the purpose of this service in these matters to be considered here. I also asked him why the percentage was not specified in all the suggestions. I allowed myself to point out that regardless of what men think when they think about types and films of the European Union, it doesn't matter. A person can choose a standard. From the European Union, a vast number of what are called. These types and decisions are relevant to very specific matters, to individual companies, even to individual regions. An abundance of olive groves in a field in Italy If all of this is included in making the ratio, you might get that number as the highest. The minister of foreign affairs points out in the reports with these Parliamentary decrees. What I was trying to say was that the same methodology shows that these types do not apply in all European countries. It's just a part of them. That's just what I was calling attention to, but it's the highest. For this little reason, the minister of foreign affairs raised a loud voice of anger, this simple question. I'm asking the highest. Ministers in which he published a fine report I quoted, carried out for the benefit of the EEA Convention, in April 2018, where this exact same information is provided in these articles: Is it to be expected that such an educational part will be to be expected on the report with all the Parliament's declarations on the EEA and the European Convention? I'm not even going to say anything to the highest word. The minister of this new manger suddenly found out that we, who are sometimes known as Europeans, are trying to undermine the EEA Convention. Besides, I don't think it's dignified or the highest. Secretary of State calling me a spokesman for the European Union. I'm not a spokesman for the European Union, I've never been, and I guess I'll never be. I think it's a reduction of the size. Secretary of state. I think it's a drag. This does not help a more useful and objective discussion, which I think we should try to have. I was just asking, What is the purpose of this? So they start saying, "Well, you're always asking for information, and then I'll bring you good information, and then you don't want to see it. I'm asking you, what is the purpose of this in the context of the type that is being recorded or recorded in Icelandic? How does this treatment affect the council? Is this so that some senators will say, " No, we can't record this because it's 13.4%? Or for others to say, " We have to film this because it's 13.4? ' In view of the highest significance, what does this mean? Minister, on the progress of these cases? I think it's probably and very respectable of the highest. Secretary of State to present the EEA agreement and discuss its importance wherever he comes. I agree with everything he says about the quality of that good deal. I think we agree that the last thing the Icelandic nation should do is bury down the EEA deal and we're in danger of somehow bringing it down. But I think it's the highest. The Minister has the right to propose this innocent inquiry, as this is a novel in the reports of this kind of council-sounding proposal, that I would allow myself to ask the highest degree. Minister to its purpose - I think his reaction to it is peculiar.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u179	A respectable president. The English translation of the European Union's directives, regulations and laws is made by the European Union. Hv. A senator can work this out in any way he wants, but he is well aware that we've been in trouble with the EEA contract because there's been no proper information about him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u180	What is the purpose of this context? Can you answer that simple question?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u181	Hv. A senator brings up this statement: What is the purpose of this assignment? I thought I had done quite well that there's a special goal -- why. A second - word senator cheered it up, but in the other word he criticizes it and tries to make it suspicious - to inform on the EEA deal. Hv. A senator cannot run away from it. I happen to meet a lot of people and, hopefully, I'll do it forever, and I know exactly what people's experience is. In fact, I've been doing inquiries, just my own polls about what people think we're filming a lot of types from the European Union. The overall answer is 90%. Is it just coming from the sky? No, it's because people have been taught it. I'm a very happy, respectable president, if that's what I'm doing. A senator doesn't want to be called a spokesman for the European Union, but he has now, last time I knew, he's directed an Icelandic organisation that the European Union has been constantly speaking to the European Union since I began to observe him before he became angry. Senator. [[Up front.]] If he doesn't want to know about it, it's okay, and I'm celebrating it. But it can't be said that we're glad to find out what the EEA deal is and then complain about it when it's done. It doesn't make sense. Hv. A senator rightly pointed out that this report he referred to was excellent. She was even. Made for two purposes. On the one hand, it is our plan for improving the protection in the EEA partnership but at the same time, normally, that's where the EU contract is going. I have not received any material comments from this report. If there is something wrong in her, it may be to correct her. But it's been a while since she came out, and I hope she's well read. If I've misunderstood. A senator so perfectly, and he's just celebrating the fact that this information is presented, I'm very pleased with it. It will continue because there is a risk that if there is a false information about the EEA Convention we'll bury under it and we don't understand its importance. And it is a special policy of the Icelandic government to inform about the EEA agreement. I have to admit, everyone can be expected to be criticized when you are in the business of a foreign minister. But I did not expect the criticism that this was the subject of presenting information that would be useful to the public, and I now do not talk about it. Councilmen handling the case. I have to admit, I didn't have an idea. Now I don't know exactly what place to go. A senator is now, whether he has a problem with the information or not, but I'm sorry if he has a problem with the information because he has a problem with it. A senator will have to live with the information of the EEA Convention and the rest of the foreign matter and the interests of the Icelanders. It is the ultimate purpose of trying to bring the best information based on facts. Councilmen, I don't talk about the nation, can shape their views on facts rather than on false information offered even to achieve some political objective, which in this case were contrary to national interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u182	Madam President. I'm sorry to be the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs sees no way of praying in favor of calling me a spokesman for the European Union. I'd appreciate it if he did. I'm not a spokesman for the European Union. I guess I'll never be. I think the European Union itself would not be pleased if I went to call myself a spokesman for the European Union, but I'm not talking about here in the pontta of a respectable General. There's no judgment at all. A minister does not want or cannot explain to me the purpose of these articles. If the aim is to inform you about the EEA Convention, why is this facility chosen? Why, then, is this released on a single document? This is the only information on the importance and value of the EEA Convention at the highest level. The Minister of Foreign Affairs intends to make a statement, through articles with proposals for evangelization of confirming EU types? Or can we expect to be brief, different, depending on when, and where they appear? Is it not better to stick to information, version, knowledge of the EEA Convention, at that point? Actually, I don't think so. Secretary of State, that the public reads a great deal of essays with proposals for action on the recording of the EEA types. If that's the minister's earnest objective, I think he should promote publishing, further development and discussion, do not use this area in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u183	A respectable president. The review of the EES contract's information flow continues from time to time. Senator. I'll just take it, Mr. Honorable President, to be perfectly guilty in this matter. I'm just trying to figure out what the EEA deal is going on and put it in some whole context. Hv. A senator asks if there is any further information. I have to do what? A senator disappointed: Yes, there is nothing impossible. I'm willing to inform both the council and the nation of the EEA treaties and other things that are involved in Iceland's interests. And then I will base that information on the facts and try to be as careful as possible. There is no policy on limiting it in any way. That's an interesting point of view. A senator says it doesn't belong there. It belongs somewhere else. I'll listen to it. But I can't guarantee that the flow of information will be stopped despite these criticisms, so to speak. Hv. A senator can expect more information from the State Department on the interests of the Icelanders, even in the reports of the Ministry. On the other hand, I'm amazed. A senator to call attention to this form of criticism in many places and to inform as many people as possible about it. The senator is criticizing the person who stands here trying to inform the council and the nation of what is truly important to the nation's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u184	Madam President. V.E.G. Secretary of state is a very clever politician. [[Up front.]] I've tried to get him to answer a simple question, but it's totally impossible. In no way have I been implying or suggesting that there be a reduction in the information flow of the EEA Convention, not a single word. I asked what was the point, to put this into this report. V.E.G. Minister hasn't answered. He has also failed to explain why this is not in all the matters before the council in a single cycle. Also, he has not answered whether this will be a permanent feature of public information through this field. At the same time, I have to ask, Is this the most important thing? The Minister of Foreign Affairs has made a recommendation in European affairs on the EEA Treaty and the European Union? Displaying ratio calculations? Well, I'm surprised. I thought it was bigger and more serious things that would be important to inform and inform the overall importance of these percentages, but the actual effects of the EEA Convention, and, if so, the impact of membership in the European Union would have. There the percentages are of no concern to the public or to the nation's future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u185	A respectable president. I don't know how many times I've told you this, I'll do it one more time. The answer is simple. We will bring all the information we consider important in the information that is relevant to the subject. I have to admit, I've just been here since 2003, but I don't remember a senator coming before and criticized a minister for providing too much information. I just don't remember. But at some point, everything will be first. I went over exactly, mentioned some examples, could mention more, the importance of correcting the EU contract errors. I don't know why. A senator sees some reason to criticize it. It sounds a little strange to try to limit that information flow and to come here seriously and criticize the minister for bringing this information, which everyone looking at them agrees to be correct, in explanatory evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u186	I was asking why, nothing to criticize it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u187	I've answered that many times.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u188	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u189	It's just a matter of Congress and nation. [[The point is, in the context of this...?]] Of course it does. It is of utmost importance that those taking a stand on matters are aware of the EEA Treaty. [[The president calls.]] That's what you're telling yourself. Of course, this is a subject for consideration. In case of a moment. A senator is seriously of the opinion that the government should inform us about the EEA contract should be brief. A senator would rather criticize them for not putting more into this report than just this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u190	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 153/2018, which recommend the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2017/899, that the use of the frequency range 470-707 MHz should be included in the EEA Convention. The range of frequencies used by the UHF frequency range is the high - speed mobile service, a wireless device for the mediating and digital telecommunications. In November 2015, at the international telecommunication convention, a technical and regular environment was adopted prior to the use of the 700 MHz frequency range for high-speed grid services. It was also agreed that the 470◯694 MHz frequency range would be used for the digital TV broadcasts in region 1 of which are Europe and Africa. Iceland is extending more than most European countries in releasing the measured frequency range so that it can be assigned to use for high-speed grid services. Before starting the use of this service, users of wireless media equipment and other media programs will be reported. These persons have been authorized to use part of the frequency range of evasive sources until high speed grid services start at the frequency range. A respectable president. Induction of Decision 2017/899 here on land calls for adjustment of law. No. 81/2003, to introduce your decision. At this point it is not yet established when a bill for such induction will be submitted to the General Assembly. No financial obligation is involved in the induction of the decision. As induction calls for adjustment of the law, the decision of the joint EEA committee was No. 153/2018 taken under controlled warning. According to Article 3 of Congress, such administrative notice must be put aside by concedition, and it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in the decision so that the government's premium can be removed. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u191	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 152/018. In the decision, it is recommended that the European Parliament's Directive and the Council of 2014/61/EU on measures to reduce the structural costs of high-speed electronic communications networks be introduced into the EEA Convention. The aim of Directive 2014/61 is to provide for the building of communications timbers, primarily for the construction of fiber optics, by contributing to the increased synergy of the cohesion of telecommunications and initiatives. The action of the directive's sentence is attributed to the EU telecommunication programme, which set out ambitious objectives for public access to a more intensive high-speed network service by 2020. The directive recommends the general right of communications and services to offer access to their infrastructure and their duty to meet reasonable requests for access in order to build up a high-speed communication system. All services that work directly or indirectly on soil funded in part or in total by public funds will be at reasonable requests for coordination in order to build up factors of high-speed communications networks according to the directive's directive. All new apartment buildings, including shares, should be equipped with interior laws that can carry high-rate network signals to a network interface point. All recently built apartment buildings will create an integration point that will be available to communications providers. In addition, the directive states that if any person who runs a global communication network has the right to build his own network at his own expense and also to connect the existing interior law to build a high - speed network, if the legislation on the interior is technically impossible or unacceptable. The Member States shall define the decision-makers on access issues and the Member States should specify a so-called internal database for which information can be provided. available telecommunications and services as well as a planned project. The implementation of the directive will result in both direct and indirect costs for the state, rural society, hosting companies, and even the road structure. Requesting the cost of implementation of the directive involves specifying the administrative authority that can carry out the specific tasks required by the directive, and must create a database and render its services in a relative manner. In context, the Agency will need one or two jobs value for these projects, as well as additional funds for database making. In terms of stock costs, the sum depends largely on whether and in what way to use available information on existing structures and on the custody of communications and hosts. If the efficiency of the existing databases is permitted, the stock costs can be estimated to be about 20 million and the cost of operating due to increasing employment levels and the continuing cost of databases can be estimated to be about 15 to 25 million per year. Semitic costs may be expected to be involved in the need to consider the compatibility of other people in their build-up programs, which could increase the level and cost of construction. However, in view of the findings of the post - communications agency, the national benefit would always outweigh the indirect costs in view of the fact that the additional cost of fiber-traveling with other initiatives is only about 203/425% of the total cost of the project. A respectable president. Directive 2014/61 here on land, requiring changes in communication regulations, No. 81/2003. It is proposed that the transport secretary will submit such a bill to the current legislature board. As the induction calls for a change in law, the decision of a joint EEA committee was No. Take 152/018 under controlled medical supervision. According to Article 3 of Congress, such administrative notice must be put aside by concedition, and it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in the decision so that the government's premium can be removed. I propose, a respectable president, after this discussion, this proposal will be referred to at the highest level. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u192	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 22/2018 of change in XI. Annex to the EEA Convention on electronic communication, audio and image sharing and information community and entry into the Convention on Council Regulation and Council No. 910/2014. The aim of the Regulation is to establish electronic communications between EU Member States and to ensure the safety of electronic commerce within Europe. Enterprises and individuals should be able to use electronic IDs of their local countries to use public services in Europe. It generates an internal market for electronic signatures and other related electronic actions by ensuring that they have the same value as paper transactions and that they can be used in cross - line relationships between countries. The agent of the Regulation, Directive 1999/93, was introduced into Icelandic law by law No. 28/2001, about electronic signatures. The directive required electronic signatures and the activities of the carer. With the new Regulation, the force field is expanded with terms of identification, certification, trust, timing, electronic sealing, websites, electronic documents, and electronic services between countries. This Regulation also establishes the authentication mechanism, which has the purpose of increasing the effectiveness of electronic communication between countries. In addition to this, the Regulation on trust services that are available to the public and that affects third parties. A respectable president. Induction of Regulation No. 910/2014 here on land calls for a change of law. New legislation on electronic signatures must be replaced by law No. 28/2001. The Ministry's Department of Employment and Development has worked on such a bill intended to submit to the current legislature council. According to a Congress report, travel, industrial and innovation ministers are planning to submit the bill in February 2019. As the induction calls for a change in law, the decision of a joint EEA committee was No. 22/2018 taken under controlled warning. According to Article 3 of Council Regulation, such administrative notice must be removed by concedition, and it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention of the Regulation so that the government arrangements can be removed. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-27-39.u193	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 102/2018, which measures that two European types of review will be implemented in the EEA Convention. The European Parliament and Council Directive 2014/56 make changes to the so-called eighth European Union Council Directive which contains the legislation on the legislation review of annual accounts and balance accounts. The change requires further compliance with legislation regulations for law-examiners in order to make the rules more transparent and predictable. The Directive therefore requires conformity rules for the requirements for recognition and registration, regulations on inequity and objective, and official monitoring of law-examiners. By the Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council No. 537/2014 is required for specific requirements in relation to a legal review of public interest units with the aim of promoting credibility in the revised accounts of such units. A respectable president. Induction of Directive 2014/56 here on the country calls for a change in law. The bill is designed to create a new global law on accountants rather than on current law No. 79/2008 where the directive's requirement will be implemented. The induction will lead to significant changes in monitoring of accountants and will result in increased costs for monitoring. However, monitoring fees will depend on these costs. The employment and innovation Department has set up an informal staff of representatives of the Department of Reviews, the FEC, and the society of legal accountants who are preparing a legal bill to be introduced into an open-label consultation procedure. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers are expected to submit the bill to the current legislature council. As the induction calls for a change in law, the decision of a joint EEA committee was No. 102/2018 taken under controlled warning. According to Article 3 of Congress, such administrative notice must be put aside by concedition, and it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in the decision so that the government's premium can be removed. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
