ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u1	Mr. President. I bring here the bill to legalize the game law of hunting fees, No. 74/2012. The case comes from a professional committee. 1st par. It reads: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: Despite other requirements of this law, including 8 and 9. ...................................... shall be the catch of the landed catch, from September 1 to December 31, 2018, unless, in every kilos of fish I'm not going to read here, asking everyone to study. The demand rate for other crops except in the table is 1.03K. and in every kilogram of unleavened labor. A whale's expense is as follows: a long shot at 51,440. and Mr. Eight hundred and twenty-five hundred. Fishing costs are 514 bucks. on each land a ton of kennels, horses there, and large seaweed. Each required party is entitled to a 20% discount of the first 1,58000,000. the stress of fishing costs and 15% off the next 1,580,000 dollars. The pressures due to a catch between September 1 and December 31, 2018. 2. par.Unable to It already goes into effect. The decrees of other laws will be carried out in the implementation of these laws, although the law would otherwise eliminate 31 December 2018. By permission of the president, the report says: ▪ Fishing fees drop out of force on December 31st. and that unchanged there is no legal warrant for the pressures of hunting fees on a landy catch of bottom fish from September 1st. So the bill suggests that the fishing fee for the 2017/018 fishing year will be extended unchanged, meaning the 2018 calendar year. A bill on the global re-evaluation of a contract on the fishing fees at the Administrative and Development Ministry has been won by a hunting committee. Ministers are expected to recommend that bill in the fall. The table currently listed in Article 1. This bill is taken unchanged from Regulation No. 310/2018 for variation to Regulation No. 637/2017, about money, pressure, and collected fishing bills in 2017/018. Thus, the fishing fee, mentioned earlier, will remain unchanged during the 2018 calendar year. 3 mg. 1st par. The bill is suggested that a so-called personality discount also remain unchanged, taking into account the time of the bill. If this bill becomes legal, the budget of the state's budget can be determined by September 1 of the season to the end of 2018 as a third of the state's revenues of the fishing year 2017/018, i.e. that your income will be about 3.6 billion
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u2	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee on Environment and Transportation to adjust the navigating laws on shipping protection and air travel on stowaways, administrative laws, background checks, etc. The committee received quite a number of visitors, and more reports were received that can be found in a committee study. The bill suggests that changes in marine protection laws and air travel laws are proposed, mainly because of repeated burglaries in the air - control area, and in addition to improving effectiveness in the implementation of the law on environmental control and in order to improve safety. These are proposed to do the background check. The reviewers made most comments to the bill's regulations on the implementation of their background interests and on administrative laws and penalties. It was noted that police sources to collect information from police files about a person who has been requested a background check, including from the police file, were extremely burdensome to the individual and would have gone beyond the need for international commitments. It was also noted that by a police background check, the individual's employment freedoms as guaranteed in the 75th gr. Presidential records of the Republic of Iceland. Secular freedom is among the basic rights of the economic and social rights category. For 75th. The Constitution claims that everyone is free to pursue the employment they choose, but freedom may be restricted by law to end the need for its public interest. The bill provides guidelines on background checks to prevent individuals with questionable backgrounds from entering sites that depend on the security limits to limit any kind of threat to terrorism and other illegal measures, such as preventing the use of weapons, drugs, and explosives between countries. The safety, life, and health of the people of the country weigh heavily and considers the Committee to require public interest in persons who are allowed access to marine areas to undergo a comprehensive background check. Qualifications for 2nd matter number 75 g. the public interest constitution is therefore met. The Commission has a requirement that in the Commission Regulation it is stated that a background check should be performed at least verifying the identity of an individual on the basis of documents for proof, covering criminal records in all habitats at least for the next five years, including jobs, education and any break in at least for the next five years. The rules require a minimum review for the next five years. The rules do not interfere with providing more detailed requirements to consider that necessary. This is the case with Norway, where both police and airport authorities can see to it that they have a background check. The police's background check is being made on the basis of police file regulations. The Commission's rights to positive comments are essential for a person to be allowed access to a air - control area or marine protection and thus be able to work properly, e.g. as a pilot. As noted in the Committee, negative comments have consequences for a person before the police close their investigation with negative comments, as well as the right of logical support for the police decide to give him negative comments. Then the police's decision on negative reviews is based on a negative background concern for Ministers in accordance with administrative guidelines. Also, great comments were made on the principles of the bill on government fines and punishments. It was noted that the sum of a day's fine, as set out in Figure 8. g., could take large sums of money, from 10,000 bucks. daily to 1 billion. K. daily. There would be no logical support in the law itself or in the comments of a report for this room. Similarly, government fines would be enormously high or $200,000. to 10 million. K. Why, though, is there no rules or instructions in the law or in the case of the stress of the offense? Then, the law would sum up a sentence on the part of day - to - day fines and the administrative fines, but it would be important to separate these fines because they could not be determined. The objective responsibility proposed to handle legal matters, i.e. the legal rights of the administration laws, although they are not to be proved by the officials or his employees or other individuals in his service, were also highly criticized and referred to as being an exception to the principle of damage to the court, the criminal order. Such an exception would have to explain a narrow and strong argument in order to justify its application. Clearly, the scope given by the House of Transport is given to determine the amount of fines given according to Article 8. There is a wide range of fines and fines. The committee considers it necessary to find a clear reference code in the legal text of a guilty decision, but it is not for the management fines that can be taken up to 10 million. K. for each fracture. Today's fines and finesses are very similar in nature. Dags are designed to force someone who has not fulfilled his duty, but a form of criminal penalties is the government's ticket. The bill also suggests that the fractures involving a person on a ship or an air vessel without permission, including the members of a community. In order to become a stowaway or to attempt to do so, there will be a penalty. Because of their severity, it is suggested that we pay them more than because of other acts against the law. The punishment of such a offense will be at least 500,000. guilt and a maximum of five years of prison unless there is a greater penalty in other laws. The Committee stated that those who have tried this in recent years were individuals who have applied here for international protection and are awaiting the release of the Foreign Institute, or who have received a revelation and are awaiting an evacuation. Has been considered to be related to the regulations of 231.g. a general penal law on house violations involved in fines or prisons up to six months. The line of punishment is thus weighted for about four and a half years, as well as a minimum of payment on fines. There is no debate about the need for safety measures in the air protection and marine protection zones, as well as the committee recognizes that there are very serious flight and air breakes that may have far-reaching consequences. However, it is necessary to be moderate in these matters and to feel that the committee is cautious of burdening the line of punishment as steep as proposed. Then the committee makes comments to the renderings of Article 9. Which states a violation of the law, especially 11 mg. 4. " No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. "Tr., 6. " and 8. gre., defending fines, but prisons up to two years if there are great or incorrigibly offenses, unless there is a greater penalty by other laws. The significance of such a list is unknown, e.g. Whether an offense against it is more serious than a violation against other laws, thereby leading to greater punishment. It is noted that in the comparable measure of the air travel, such a list is not found. Does the Committee count it right to take away the 9th and 13th? The bill on penalties at this time, but it encourages the Ministry to revise the regulations, including the above views and positions of individuals guilty of such offenses over the past few years. The available bill discuss sensitive information and region, but their definition is not clear. The Commission suggests that the definition of confidential information also includes sensitive information. Implementation Regulation on Marine Protection, No. 265/2008, the term seagull is applied to a sensitive area and is also used in the Air Travel Act. If the Commission thinks it is proper to be consistent in the use of the term, they suggest that the marine protection laws be added to the definition of marine areas and that these are replaced by vulnerable areas. The committee also suggests several further legal modifications and adjustments. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes to which it has been tore up in a special Senate document. I'd like to include only the changes to the first two points I discussed in my talk, and that's about the background checks. The committee makes a big point of it and makes a change in its proposal to address it here that, according to the five years being carried out in the Regulation and now the need for proof of good conduct and anything else. The police's background analysis is primarily to check that there are any recent cases in the system and also ensures that the person applying for a job and submitting to a background check will be allowed to have more control over that process himself by having protest rights and not sending a negative review of his background view from the police without knowing the person before and enjoying the above-mentioned objections. It also has to be clear that the investigation carried out in the police litigation systems, or just general background thinking, includes only those factors that can support suspicions - that is what we add here - has some impact on the fact that the law's aims to ensure safety and prevent smuggling of dangerous products and other such factors, are not reached. These are the changes the committee suggests and highlights in its members. The other changes tend to reduce the addition of such high government fines and raise the criminal warrants so steep without fully rationalizing and explaining the results, whether they are clear enough, and whether there is a fall to the intended goal. Otherwise, I refer to the changes made by a special body document and to the committee's opinion for more explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, the spokesman for the case, for his word. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to draw attention to what was presented. A senator and an executive on the suggestions. The Environment and Transport Committee agreed in their proposals as presented here, i.e. To both 9. The bill will be removed at 13. the bill, which, in all members of the committee's opinion, was a far too dramatic increase in both the guilt and the penalty frame. As noted in the committee's opinion, in the case of the guests who were called before the committee, many of those who have spent the past few years trying to break aboard a ship are individuals here who have applied for international protection and who wait for release from the Foreign Institute or who have received a revelation and wait for an evacuation. The proportion of these individuals is quite high among those who have fallen guilty of attempting burglary on a ship, and it was shown in the case of the committee that the intent of these people was to get out of the country, some other often and times, while their complete uncertainty waits here on land because of their troubles. A respectable president. It is my sincere hope that the Ministry will take these tips and comments made in the Committee that there may be an extreme rise in the rate of punishments in the administrative frameworks and that there are suggestions so that they could be equal and moderation, especially when it comes to the majority of the cases of persons in a more extremely delicate position waiting for their release, are applying for international protection to us here. It may be worth considering, then, that at the same time, we need to examine seriously the time since people who have been looking for international protection will have to wait for the results to come into their affairs and wait for relief. The answer, indeed, is not to raise the line of punishment, as shown in the bill or the financial fines so steep. So I am very happy with the solidarity shown. Environmental and transport committee on these issues. I thank my members of the Committee for this, and I certainly hope that this bill will be improved for this vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u4	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal to correct the conversion of construction laws, No. 160/2010, with subsequent changes. It's about the administration of human activities. I'm not gonna list a guest or a client, that information is available in the evidence. However, the bill suggests changes in humanitarian law, which aim to reduce construction costs and simple human activities. The committee feels that it is important to seek ways to simplify administrative and administrative activities, although the quality requirements are unsolved. Thus, in many ways the committee deems the bill to improve. First thing about professionality. The bill contains changes in the a-item 1 of the Figures 2 of the provisional measure, i.e. that the requirements of the decision to practice for the destination should be canceled. There is no change in the timemark of the law, and therefore there is a continuing delay to January 1, 2018, in order to obtain professional ideals for reviewing specifics and implementing final and safety arrangements. This adds up to Article 1 of the Article 2 of this law to the continuation of human activities and construction agencies until January 1, 2020. All sources made significant comments on the requirements of professional values and the impact of its acceptance at next New Year's Eve, including the U.S. that the requirement would have a significant impact on the financial and administrative functions of an appointed construction agent. They will be expected if any office will apply for a professional value that will likely lead to a rarely-growing construction market. Whether there is an assessment of a professional developer or a professional laboratory, it is difficult to see that prognostication will not result in an increase in the cost of house workers. It was noted that our neighboring countries do not require a professional approach to the developers. As an independent assessment is required, it is based on the review by an independent person and not on the fact that the person has a prognosis. The Commission stresses that implementation of projects is in a way that requires careful, efficient and delayed implementation. In this case, care should be taken to ensure that the cost of monitoring is moderate. The Committee repeatedly stated that the requirement of professional practice would inevitably lead to enormous expense, which will eventually land on the housewives, raise the cost of building, and thus increase the cost of housing. The cost of building is already high in this country and will become all the rules that can lead to an increased cost of being well - supported. In the opinion of the Committee, there has been no evidence to support further progress in the work programme of the country, i.e. to demand professional values, but in the countries we compare with and what if professional research is taking on a wide range of public construction services. Then the committee will not be able to see that this arrangement is in accordance with the view of simple regulations and a reduction in the cost of building. The Commission feels strongly that a full review of the legal requirements of professional values should be conducted and directed to the Environment and Resource Ministry to assess whether other routes are more practical in relation to the observations made. These will include whether the aims of the legislation of the requirement, by the anthropographs of 2010, of a fixed monitoring framework and of the official surveillance agencies being at the same level as the following implementation rules for monitoring, are, for example, to be met by an independent review of the third party without prognostic factors and/or the way the Norwegians have chosen to employ the terms of the Eurocode 0 Annex B, which is (see IST EN 1990:2002), to be stratified in three ways according to the definition of the risk to define three degree of design and monitoring. The Commission believes that the range of assessments that take into account, for example, the size of buildings and the size of the problem, would be a very acceptable option to achieve targets for practice and to ensure effective monitoring without increasing construction costs. So the committee suggests that the continuation of the 1st issue of the 2nd budget for temporary construction laws will be extended by two years and the extension of the b-communications of the same law will be extended by one year. It also has a valid time point in both terms, allowing the Ministry to reevaluate all aspects of the law relating to professional values and to offer comprehensive suggestions for changes that take into account the above views and comments of stakeholders. For specifications, in the bill it is assumed to cancel the requirement that all special items be available prior to the release of the building permit. The committee agrees with that view. The Commission claims that despite the change, all design is required prior to implementation, i.e. that to-dos should not be initiated until specifications towards its return have been submitted to the permit group and signed for consent. Guides of the change to allow executives to implement, e.g. Digging for structure, without any specialations due to window design. As a result of the change to much improvement, the committee is designed to enhance flexibility and prevent unnecessary urgency at the beginning of the project, as well as to help reduce construction costs. In view of the above, a change in the definition of the law of the building permit is necessary and the committee suggests a change in word. Next thing you know, I'm gonna come to what's to be responsible for the declarations. Comments were made to the bill's proposal to require a declaration of responsibility from fewer industrialists than at present. The committee does not agree with the views of maintaining these rules. These committees consider the change to be good and to simplify procedures and reduce the costs of the recruiter at the beginning of the job. Then there is the positive result of efforts to stop the authors from being registered for paintings, resulting in unnecessary expenses and double - doings in the administrations. Regarding the demolition of a certain trade master's registration, i.e. A monastery master, master of steel, painters, and wallpapers, on works of a degree for their own use of the owner, the committee points out that there is a negligible to-do in terms of the individual types. Then there are buildings less than 40 square feet [40 square meters] or less than a building permit, but more of it falls into garages, buildings, and smaller vacation homes. All trade champions will still be allowed to sign up on work, including A monastery master, a steel master, a painter, and a wallpaper master, but the registration of registration will lead to a simple administration and a reduction in the cost of building. In the case of the prisoner collection, the bill suggests the change that the construction manager, instead of the construction representative, will be taken in accordance with the guidelines of the guide manuals and the checklists. Notes were made for the Commission on the expanded access authority of that law, but it is recommended that a published building permit can, in spite of the above, be determined that the inspector, i.e. A construction agent, a Human Fortress Society, or the following events of a observatory, will be busy with prisoners. It was noted that the exception is extensive and does not give the wording any reason to estimate the need or the need for a surveillance provider to care for the analysis. Then there is the possibility that their interpretation will vary from country partner to country, and after incidents, there would be a greater risk of being used than would have been expected. At a meeting of the Committee, it was stated that this information had been obtained at a meeting of a client with the Ministry's representative that the purpose of the directive was that rural communities might decide to care for the targeted to-dos, e.g. if it was discovered that a construction manager had not been successful earlier in the process. The committee considers it important to have such an expanded access, but it agrees with the above views of the need to assign the source more closely and suggests a change in word to that end. According to the above, the commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change. Again, the committee suggests that the word change that I entered at the end will be followed by a statement that, despite the regulations of 2 mg/mL and 2mgr. B-joints, 1 5. Come: if necessary, and because of the lack of a building manager. This suggests that the committee has been made sufficiently aware that there is a need for real evaluation and logical support for the application of this exception form. Another adjustment proposed is that of ◯1 words. January 15, 2018, in the 17th century C.E. a coming: January 1, 2021; b-team: We add a new joint, as follows: January 1, 2020, of the b-complex of a provisional law: 1 January 2021. This is what I entered in the talk earlier regarding the coordination of the timing of professional delays. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Björk Bjolflfsdóttir sign the committee's opinion in advance. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson believes that the requirements for professional management in the construction industry are wise to ensure the quality of workers under Icelandic conditions. Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjork Brylfsdóttir believes that it is important not to compromise the requirements for the management of a member of the construction industry to ensure the quality of Icelandic workers. As noted earlier, the Committee suggests that the Ministry takes these factors to a material level. Jón Gunnarsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjolfsdóttir, who signed the case under warrants of 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. And under this, the man who stands here, Bergþór Ólason, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, in advance, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjolfótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason, Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Helga Vala Helgadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u5	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee for the transport of the Committee's Committee but would like to comment that the history of the construction industry in this country is very uncertain. It involves the history of defects and poor extensions but also some high misunderstandings in terms of regulations, allowing, monitoring, etc. In this regard, there were various indications and particularly concerning the administrations. This bill is used to facilitate various aspects of the administration, and it's a good thing. Mr. President. Then a few words on the subject, including. Rapporteur's trade. It is not put on enough emphasis on this bill in my opinion, but in some respects it is acceptable to simplicity, which is what I agree to this committee before. A study manual is good, but it is best when professionals read it. It is thus spent in Iceland that conditions in the construction of workers are somewhat unique because of natural stress. I'm especially referring to weather - related pressures, heat fluctuations between temperatures and thaws that cause freezing damage in buildings, very frequent, cracks, and so on. I bring up some of the wind pressure that has been intense in Iceland and frequent, and it has resulted in a very common number of molds in Iceland. There are many examples of what causes very serious problems, and I have listed both leak-and-cheese lesions and mold-like defects. Thus, most workers in the construction industry have an important step to counterbalance. It should be emphasised on setting it up in Iceland because it is such an increase in construction costs as a result of the value of monitoring and assessments simply leads to a more lasting manpower and improved quality of use. The actual cost of saving is, in effect, at the time of the workers'use. So happiness is really an investment in quality and security.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u6	A respectable president. I present my committee opinion with changes to bill proposals to legalize the rights and duties of foreign companies, which temporarily send employees to Iceland and their staff's employment and other laws (a protection of employment markets, EEA services) from the welfare board. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bjarnhri Göttadóttir, Eva Margrét Kristinsdóttir, and Jón Þór Þorvaldsson from the Ministry of Health, Gissur Bjarnason, and Unnur Sverrisdóttir of the Office, Þorbjörn Grönvold from the National Socialist of the United States, Þórður Sveinsson of the United States, and Thordrúnsson of Peron. News came from the Democratic Association of Iceland, the Union of Colleges, the Alliance of Governments and Towns, the Association of Professional Drivers, the Association of Business and Officers in Akureyri, the International Flight Society, the National Association of Employment Association, the National Association, the Civil Society, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union, the European Union. The main objective of the bill is to implement the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on May 15, 2014, for the implementation of the 96/71/EC on the work of eutrophication of workers in connection with services and for the change of EU Regulation on cooperation with the Commission by the information system for the internal market (the IM-SEC). The directive's aim is to establish a common framework of relevant regulations, measures and monitoring systems necessary to implement the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on eligibility of workers in connection with services for implementation, as well as to be necessary to apply and enforce it more effectively and in a more consistent manner within the Member States, including measures to prevent and prevent violations of current regulations. The bill gives the Icelandic government a better perspective on the state of the domestic labour market in terms of the activities of foreign workers here on the country and the number and position of foreign workers working in such regions. The aim is also to strengthen the monitoring of the Icelandic labour market so that pay and other requisitions of foreign workers, which are temporarily sent to a country by foreign companies in connection with the services of the country as well as foreign workers are employed by the national labour sector, are in accordance with the laws and current agreements of the relevant labour agreements in the area where the work is being carried out. This is also aimed at implementing the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on 16 April 2014 for arrangements to be made to enable employees to use the rights they have in connection with the free flow of employee duties. Free movement of the labour market is fundamental to the development of labour markets in the European Economic Area. In the 15th. The bill contains the so - called chain responsibility for construction and for the construction of workers. For example, the Committee found that the chain of responsibilities would not take up more occupations. Tourism. Information from the Ministry of Health was not given reason to allow the chain of responsibility to apply to other employment companies, where much of the busier workers in this country served as construction services or workers. In addition, these two sectoral sectors called for increased monitoring. If so, it would be clear that the decision to make a decision was based on an agreement that took hold of the labour market partners. In an explanation of verse 15. it is assumed, however, that the labour market situation will be carefully monitored so that there can be a intervention by suggesting a change in the law if conditions in the labour market are placed in place so that it is important to recommend that the user company operates within other occupations should be deemed responsible on the basis of the provision. Under the circumstances of a labour market requiring such adjustment, it is expected that a workforce for changing the law will be submitted to the General Assembly to agree with the labour market organisation. The Commission agrees with the Ministry's explanation, but it is important that the legislation should be reviewed as early as possible in terms of the implementation of more sectoral issues and that there will be a clear review of how to monitor employment conditions. Therefore, the Committee suggests that on the bill there is a preliminary addition of regulations that stipulate that the Ministry appoints a group of workers who measure the results of the law and provide proposals in the fall of 2019 on other activities under the law. It is suggested that this committee represent representatives from the European Union of Iceland, the League of Colleges, the BSRB, the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, the United States of Iceland, and the Work Programme. At the same time, the minister is suggested to ship one of the committees without a form of appointment and that this representative is the chairman of the Committee. It is also suggested that the Commission be responsible for the labour market situation and, after some cases, suggest to the minister that the law be changed if the labour market situation becomes so important that it is important to consider the responsibility of user companies according to Article 11. a Actual value for user companies in non-creature activities or construction projects, compare with Article 15. The bill. It is then assumed that the Committee will hand a report in the fall of 2019 on the state and development of foreign workers who are temporarily sent to the country to provide services. In addition, the report should evaluate the right to change the law so that Article 11. a Actual value on the responsibility of user companies in non-creature activities or activities, compare with Article 15. The bill. By the enforcing of the legislation on the rights and duties of foreign companies that temporarily send workers to Iceland and their staff's responsibilities, it is guaranteed that the workforce and organisations of the labour market will share together with the development of foreign workers who are temporarily sent to the country to provide services so that they can, as above, be briefly available to intervene by presenting a legal adjustment if necessary. The committee specifically called for the Persian Protection of the matter, for the Agency had made comments to a previous bill. It was reported that the limitations that the Agency considered to be on the case were corrected by general references to the introduction of personal information in certain data, including sensitive information, should be carried out in accordance with the laws on personal protection and the handling of personal information. It was noted that the Agency believed that references to the personal protection laws in special areas could contribute to an increased level of consciousness regarding its principles. The Committee also obligates the legal process of personal protection to make the nature of the case valid, according to all other process of personal information, if it is not specifically free from it by law. The committee makes specific comments that focus on the formality of the case. The Commission claims that the Council's Regulation on the Constitutional Management of the EEA is expedient in the Generality Act, including the Council of Parliament. aimed at ensuring that the disposal of legislation through the implementation of EU-type rules is in a set and consistent manner. In terms of Directive 2014/67/EU, the Commission emphasizes that the implementation of the directive is not really involved, as it has not yet been implemented in the EEA Convention. EU types are subject to a formal process that supports the above General rules for the treatment of the Parliamental Management of the EEA. Thus, at the time of its introduction, the General Assembly has formally made arrangements to record within the EEA Convention. It is important, therefore, that the differences are made between the cases where the European Commission's guidelines are legalized, as appropriate in this case, and the introduction of the medicinal product. In both cases, improvement is observed for the specific type, but only in the second form, the induction is essentially in the sense of EEA rights. In view of this, 27. where there is a requirement for the introduction of the EEA type. Then the Court's decision to agree with the Generals is required to confirm any decision made by the European Commission in a administrative capacity. When the Directive 2014/54/EU was set up in the EEA Convention, a administrative decision was not made at the discretion of the joint EEA Committee No. 219/2015, since it was not thought that a change would take place so that it could be introduced into Icelandic. To implement this directive, it was later found that free employment and housing laws need to be changed within the European Economic Area. In view of an important point that is involved in the administration of the State and that is not limited to the administration of the authority. to the Constitution the committee makes note that there is no mention of this procedure in the report with the bill. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: Twenty-seven. put it this way: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: The minister shall appoint a temporary committee for three years, and it shall include representatives from the Allied Union of Iceland, the League of Colleges, the BSRB, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Union of Iceland, and the Employment Organization. The minister shall appoint one officer of the committee without a form and shall be the representative of the committee. The Commission shall have the responsibility to monitor the labour market situation and to recommend to the minister that these laws will be changed in a labour market setting in a way that makes it important to recommend the responsibility of user companies at the same time. 1 1. a value for user companies in employment fields other than construction or activities. The committee shall also provide a report in the fall of 2019 on the state and development of foreign workers who are temporarily sent to this country to serve here. In addition, the report will review the Commission's judgment on the right to change these laws so that Article 11. a value about the responsibility of user companies in employment fields other than construction or activities. A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. It's under the heading "Why." Senator Ásmundur Friðriksson, Director Halldóra Mogensen, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Gólänsson Brjánsson Brjánnsson, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristándótir, Karl Hjaltason Einar Einar, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and Vilmiram Árnason. A respectable president. I want to say something about this matter with my own heart. The bill, known as the chain of responsibilities in the council, is given extensive support in the General and the commercial sectors. The employment community and the National Association of Iceland agree on its contents. For this reason, there is no material change in the bill, but the employment committee agreed to submit a turn-in of a committee whose role would be to examine employment conditions, as mentioned in the Committee. We who monitor the progress of the expansion of foreign enterprises here in the country offering services at an opportunity far below what a domestic company can offer. I've heard of foreign workers getting 60 euros a day, which is quite below the minimum wage level in this country. The scope of foreign activities which do not require employment increases as domestic enterprises fight on the banks. Hence, it is important to respond in a powerful way and to make the bill a big step in that direction. In my opinion, the next step is to make it clear that foreign workers who work here on the land that contractors also agree with the laws and activities of other fields.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u7	Madam President. We will discuss some committee views with regard to changing the bill to a song that has been called chain responsibility. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson took care of the situation. I come up primarily to repeat and support the arrangements made in the adjustment process. This is not due to anything, but because the committee has made conversation with guests and the reviews have made a concern that the chain of commitments need to reach more people. The adjustment makes a fine impression, and it's fine. The committee, however, had in its discussion, and the opinion of visitors knew that so far there was still very little knowledge that a case that would be covered by the law was about to arise on the land. In view of this, the Commission considers it wise to accept the adjustment made in the way it is. This can ensure that such cases continue to be considered so that the right person to work in Iceland is comparable between employers and employers cannot compromise their responsibility as well as that employers and occupational candidates can assume that they have comparable conditions between employment and company.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u8	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a change to bill to correct a change in housing law, No. 44/1998, with subsequent changes, housing policies, the role of the Subcommittee, from the welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative of the Ministry of Health, the Rún Knútsdóttir, Þór Sturluson Hjálmarsson, Andrés Helgason, and Signusta Þorleifsson, Elín Ölma Jón, and Ingvar María Rúriksdóttir from the state tax; Hynhfjörfjörður Arkelsson; and Olmölmarsson of Sveinsson from the Þórður of Perroónótir and J. Reports were received from the National Social Association of Iceland, the Alliance of State and Towns, the SEC, Iceland's Habitat, Penitentiary, State over head, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the National Association of Employment, Iceland's Secret Bank, U.S.A. Bank of Insurance, Iceland's Business and National Bank. The objective of the bill is to identify the role of the government in the public service of a safe haven for the future. Among other things, the bill is covering a camp loan fund with a project on the distribution of stocks to general apartments. This will include the bill on policy, analysis and development plans for housing. The committee, mentioned earlier, received 12 reviews on the subject. Various commentators criticized some of the elements of the bill, including comments on 2 mg. Section 4. the bill that the Substitution Fund is permitted to require governments and agencies for the data and information on the housing market and that the governments and institutions are obliged to provide the information in the form and at the time specified by the fund. According to one authority, the fund's authority is required to demand information from, including, a source of information. Iceland's Office, Iceland's National Registry, the government tax manager and the government's insurance agency are too extensive. There is no consideration for the confidentiality of governments and institutions, such as those mentioned above. The terms are stated in the 117th paragraph. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. The committee agrees with the above comments about the ability to limit the confidentiality of government and institutions to the sources of camp loans for data collection. Gives the committee a change of 4. Which shall not go as far as the law do. The committee specifically discussed Article 11. who state that a minister should be called upon to make his appointment annually. 3 mg. it is decreed that a building assembly is open to all and that those especially to be invited to the council are provided with a list. The committee agrees that a meeting of housing is open to all, but it emphasizes that as many as possible are allowed to attend that assembly. In view of the tenet structure, the committee stresses that this group is specifically listed in the law and makes adjustments. In his review and for the Commission, the Commission pointed out that its surveillance role in terms of apartment loans was not properly defined in the law and that, in view of the changed role of the fund, it was necessary to explain more fully the role of the Food Board. If there is no authority, the F.A. will suggest that there is limited benefit on the legal basis that allows for financial monitoring and compliance with the law. The Commission will comment on the FEEC and direct it to the Ministry that it will review the legislation by considering the SEC's comments. A respectable president. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st At Section 4. a. Instead of the words, a telethon, the processing of a 3rd index 1.mgr. falling: analysis. b. 2th paragraph. put it this way: It is permitted to collect and process information that is needed for a project. 11 /7. equals 1.mg. The Substitution Fund should always be made aware of the objective of data collected, the quality of processing, the preservation of data, and the publication of the data. 2. Following the words of a member of a rural society (U.S.) at 3 mg. 1 1. g. Come along: the tenet [i.e. that they may then be invited to a meeting of lodging. Hv. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Colbömnadótir, who was away from the case, writes under warrants at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was away from the hearing. Under this opinion, write why. The members of Halldóra Mogensen, chairman of the court, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoff, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Ásmundur Friðriksson, S.. Brjánsson Bránsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u9	V.E.G. President. I recommend here to the Commission's advising proposal for a bill to correct a change in the handling of money thefts and terrorist funding, No. 64/2006, with subsequent changes. The objective of this bill is to provide members who offer services where transactions can take place between virtual funds, generators, and currency, and services with digital wallets under law on the control of money thefts and terrorist funding. A change in the values of the law suggests that the service employers offering a business between virtual funds and the services of digital wallets will be reported to members. This means that they must comply with any obligation of the law, including the following: To perform a reliable search of his clients, to collect information on real owners, and to report any suspicious trades to the police. The bill responds to the rapid growth of the sector and the fact that it is recognized for a different purpose. The bill is co-ordinated with a committee working on the implementation of the fourth EU money-temperature directive, and its directives are carried out under the edge of the fifth sievement directive. Part of the criticism focused on the subject of the bill in the activities of the Committee meets the definition of concepts in Article 2. are too bed - or otherwise imperfect. According to government sources, a definition of terms was sought in accordance with the specifications of the fifth embellishment directive. The Commission does not have a basis for suggesting a change, but it encourages the eye to have a more rapid development of virtual and digital wallets and that definitions of concepts will be revised to that end. According to Article 7. The bill is added to the services providers of pseudo-final and digital wallets by the list of 2 mg. Section 5. legal on cost of official financial control, No. 99/1999, but those listed should pay 700,000 bucks. A steady year's fee for official surveillance. The committee has noted that many of the companies involved in the type of service involved are small starters with few employees and that the cost of this money may be very burdensome to them. However, the Commission believes that in general the principle to be respected is that the cost of monitoring should be met by those who are monitored in a financial market. In spite of this, it is important that the Commission not place a stone in the streets of small enterprises, which are taking their first steps on the market in which rapid technological development and innovation govern countries, especially when there is no actual cost of monitoring. So the committee puts it up to 7th C.E. The bill goes off at this time and further will be considered on how the cost of paying for the follow-up of the EEC will be taken into account in terms of the magnitude and actual cost of monitoring and the financial resources of the relevant Member States. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st First paragraph 5 of paragraph 5. Note: Services to whom the implementation of this law allows for trade between virtual capital, electric and currency, and the services of digital wallets should request registration by the FEC under these laws within one month of the implementation of this law. Then a change of 7. ... theconvictiondemnate'sremovement. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, supports this committee opinion. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was absent from the case and signed under the opinion given at 4 mg. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. Under the writings of Óli Björn Bryndís, president of the Economic and Business Committee, Brubbur Níelsson's Víglundsson, Þorsteinn Wílundsson, Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Karl Liljendal Hólmgeirsson, and Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u10	Madam President. This is a bill in order to get a rule of the so-called electric coins the government wants to call virtual money. There is an argument about using words later on. It is proper to consider at the outset that no one objects to the use of electronic bills as a result of the money - control laws. But no one would want to contribute to the money theft or the funding of terrorism or anything like it, at least not here at the council. In the meantime, I welcome the bill, for I have the time, well, not all the time, but for a few hours called upon to create a reasonable system of electronic exchanges, both to nurture the innovation that is taking place to settle all doubt about legitimate electrical coins, and also to prevent abuse. This is a step in the right direction. But the problem is, and it's criticism that I'm forced to bring it to the bill, that when such laws are passed, especially to new technologies, we need to be very careful about whether the law can have unwanted side effects. I believe that the situation is in such a situation that it can have very negative side effects. The worries I have are primarily two. On the one hand, it is a technical concept of the set of values because definitions used are inaccurate. On the other hand, there is a negative effect that can be caused by the discriminatory effects on the law and how it can affect possible investments in Iceland. Then, first and foremost, I'm looking for a lot of people to come to Iceland from abroad, a business and anything, to set up companies working in this electronic currency. Clearly, these companies are deeply concerned that one way or another the principle of order is certain. Unfortunately, there has been a little misunderstanding about what is legal and illegal today, and then it will occur when this bill passes through, i.e. if it cannot be changed slightly. I don't think these two things will come up with some legal recognition in the courts, but both of them have a significant impact on the appearance of Iceland for those who are investing, even hundreds of millions of dollars in building on this, and have slided an eye into Iceland. Then, I'm, using a probe, talking about a perfectly legitimate company, not a company that's doing some kind of money bullshit. I'm particularly concerned that the bill appears to be being performed at a high rate from the Ministry of Justice, apparently in connection with the activities of a small number of companies who have what I know best to do in the most legitimate way. So there is a point that there is a plan to try to use some form of punishment. But putting laws that limit money-student in this way does not make a big difference in the amount of money that goes on with electronics. Of course, it is true that the amount of money paid has been used by electric coins over the years. The result, however, may be that a number of data stored on a so - called chain, called the English 'blockchain's name, are subject to observation under the SEC. It is even the case if they are not financial. Only because the definitions used are inaccurate and incorrect. For example, fancy contract chains are stored in a public place. There would be names or brand-new chains, such as the name or branding of the chain like the μnamecoin, and so on. It would be a chain of origins, such as the one that the Food Institute and Advania are working on for registration of lamb socks, an interesting project, even though I'm concerned that it will be the most expensive list of Iceland's history. Then there are the so-called B2B trading chains that deal with enterprises and credit positions between them, education and qualications, such as ODEM and so on. There are plenty of cases where this kind of chain is being used, not for financial purposes. It is my understanding that the thought is not a rule of this phenomenon, but it is not obvious from the definition under which it is being used. It is obvious that the SEC should not be required to monitor these components, e.g. The art of lamb metal. That would be a waste of time. And maybe someone says, okay, the FDA is obviously not supposed to watch these things, so it's just not going to work. Nevertheless, the danger is that this will be a burdensome law and oppressive operation by the government that prevents people from engaging in such a business. It is simply best for us to agree that in definitions used, accurate understanding and debate fully over what is being spoken of. So, my job with the Ministry and the rest of my discussion is that even if it goes unchanged, the bill does not have to go through a burning chain that is not financial. Regarding the comments of the Ministry that this does not apply to them, it seems based on the tired and unfaithful practice in the Icelandic legal tradition that the law meant what the Ministry meant rather than what it actually meant in the bill. We may have to endure this, but if we are going to do better in international business than we have done, it is better for us to keep things clear and to make things clear. One open question that appears on the bill, or should be read out, is: Who is it that serves as a digital wallet? As the definition is, it could be a software building, a database company, any kind of innovation company that uses the combustion technology to finance itself or offer some kind of service. It could also be some sort of combustion industry, or what it is called a bllockchain minier, as an enterprise such as Landactivation, and certainly the Icelandic state through taxes earns a considerable amount of money today. Now it is a question of whether such companies will move to other countries if mining becomes registered or a heavy rule, everything around them is creating what an adequate 15 - year - old child may actually create in his home within a few hours. The fact that there's going to be a registration or a follow-up in the feds just doesn't hold any conclusions. They are then forced to maintain their money-collar ideas toward all their clients and in the case of software houses that may have a lot of clients of different kinds, and this whole chain job may be one of a few, I'm thinking, for example, to companies like Adviana suddenly will be some minor action on their part to change the entire nature of their operation. Of course it's not the purpose of the law, but it's a possible extra product. In all of this, the question is: Is the use of money advising this so - called virtual money or electric coins? Is it true that virtual money is money? If it isn't, I think that a virtual price needs to be accurately defined. And if it is, I think it will lead us to very strange paths in terms of general talk about currency and how they work. It may be that under the same financial law, companies like car dealers and real estate dealers fall down to a certain extent to confirm their customers. But there is no one who insists on making a money - stealing effort on houses or cars, for that would be unwise. Of course, it should be the same with other products, as it may be, depending on how you define them. It's complicated, of course. We're talking about new technologies. A chain, it sounds like magic, but in reality it's just a really big list of simple but complicated ones. A list of entries in which each entry, together with some information, contains a code-based summary of the previous entry so that it is harder or impossible to re-change entries in an easy way. Digital wallet is a collection of private keys, i.e. The cipher keys, the owner of the wallet, but the wallet actually has no money or virtual money, but a key which provides access only to certain entries that show that the entry was sent to the concerned wallet. The definition of a burning system in the bill is simply technically wrong. Then there is a missing definition of a digital wallet, which makes it possible to interpret the phenomenon in exactly any way that you can think of. President. The Commission's proposal is all good. It's great to make it clear. I thank the Economic and Business Committee for handling the case in an excellent way and taking into account many of the comments that came in. I'm a little critical that the Committee took the Ministry of Justice completely credible in everything, but there are a lot of complications, and we just have to be careful. I agree with all the comments, and I don't want to mean that with them most of them, but not all that's wrong. I have proposed to the council's office changes proposals, which are expected for distribution, which are about to correct the limitations of the case and that are not extensive. It's a little bit of a fix. It takes a little to fix this, and I hope that the adjustment proposals will be agreed upon, based on technical knowledge and reason, I mean. But if they are not accepted, I will ask that the case be addressed between 2 and 3. Because I'd like to try to push this into the right direction because this is the first time we're setting a law on this technology, and if we do it wrong, it will create a very bad example.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u11	Madam President. I'm here recommending a commission about bill change of credit laws, No. 50/1988, on behalf of the Economic and Business Committee, who came to meet with a representative of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and the head of state tax. The bill first stipulates changes in terms of cost taxes for purchase and sale of goods and services between countries, such as 1 and 5. the bill, but the current laws of the law have arrived in their years because of the rapid development of technology and the change in business. The changes are mainly based on a report by a group of trades and trades between countries, which includes the principle that taxation of international exchange services will be the place where the consumption of the service takes place from the home of the buyer of the service. Second, adjustments to the requirements for electronic sales and subscriptions of magazines and newspapers are proposed according to the Commission's proposal to improve the environment of the National Media Organization. As a result of selling electronic editions of magazines and magazines into the lower steps of a valuable tax, such as electronic music by law No. 121/2011. Third, the bill states that the operators of a car of people who have been given special permission by a U.S. O.A. to travel as a tourist service, such as 10 g. law on passenger transport and freight transport, No. 28/2017, if allowed to persuade taxes on the trade as tax returns. In the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be passed on as a matter of fact. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, supports this committee opinion. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson was absent from the case and signed under the opinion given at 4 mg. 18th par. Council regulations. Under the circumstances, Óli Björn Kárason, the Þorsteinn, the Víglundsson of Wílund, Braudur the Brynjar of Níelsson, the Bryndís of Bordi Haraldsdóttir, the Oddný of Oddan G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gur Gunnarsson, Karl Liljendal, Hólmgeirsson, and A Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u12	A respectable president. I'm here offering an opinion with a change in bill proposal to legalize the water supply laws, the price of fishing revenues, the number of directors, and so on. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Jóhann Guðmundsson and Sigríður Norðmann frá the atvinnuvega of nýsköpunarráðuneyti, og well as other visitors. The bill suggests changes in fish - breeding laws. Qualified funds are used to provide loans or funding for projects that serve the goal of increasing fishing, improving fishing facilities, supporting research in rivers and lakes, and increasing their value of fishing. The bill suggests that the government of the fund will be replaced by five men and that any laws of the law will pass away, i.e. Section 4. for the money of the treasury, for the ordinances of the fifth part. for the price of the wares, of the measures of six. for the stress and collect the price of fishing income, regulations 7th par. Which deals with the minimum amount of money and 10 g's. about penalties. If the bill is legal, the hunting rights owners will no longer have to pay for the fund, but they will continue to be given the same strength as they have been in the past few years until the funds are emptied. Commenting on the matter, it was noted that it was reasonable to arrange a future fund in a way that differs from what is stated in the bill. It was concluded that it was unnatural to reduce the number of representatives in the administration and also to continue paying off the funds as if it had been done. In addition, it was noted that a contribution had come into the treasure of the Earth's treasure with provisional regulations in the law of No. 72/2008. The committee noted that in the project made from the Earth's Fund, as a single payment, there were compensations for the lack of electricity from the seals. The committee points out that by law approved on May 9 of that date. Changes in fish farming laws were made, so the commission suggests 2. The bill will be removed. Hv. Ásmundur Friðriksson and Smári Mccarthy were absent from the case. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 2.g. ... goout. It is considered that the following is signed. Councilmen: The one that stands here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Inga Sæland, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoff, Elíasdóttir Frinífjörbífjörður Elisdótir, Kolbeinn Óttarsson of Proppé, Njálí Friðbertsson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u13	Madam President. I recommend a board of committees with a change to proposal and a follow-up party, with a change to the bill for generators and battery refills. The reason two committee opinions are from the majority of the Committee is that there has been an extensive discussion within the Committee on this matter and with the loyal help of the Commission director has been successful in achieving a common approach to the situation. That is why two people are considered to be. I'm not going to read the names of the committees for words, but it's basically a case where there's a warrant for sale and marketing of electric websites and refills. This issue is not new and has been discussed before at the council. In the work of the Committee, there were a number of controversial reports and many visitors. I think it is important to say again at the beginning of the discussion that the committee took on a great deal of work under the leadership of a chairman, who knows that my opinion will give excellent conclusions on the case, taking into account many of the comments and concerns that were presented during a discussion within the committee. The approach to the greater part, and then we're talking about the opinion of the majority of the section with a modification proposal, is, in fact, first and last in terms of making changes to the bill, or from the bill as instructed, focused on trying with all possible child protection and ensuring that an increase in the use of children and young people on electrocuts, or the fluid, the wave is avoided. It is the spirit in what we say there. There were data on the discussion, research and reports from a number of sources, as well as some guests expressed concern about it, that it seems that what is happening in Iceland is not quite the same as in our neighboring countries, at least points out the evidence for some reason that Icelandic youths use electric cigarettes without ever having smoked to a greater extent than their peers in other countries. We don't know why. There has been, perhaps out of sense and perhaps with a sense of sense, putting ideas on an explanation, but I'm not going to enter it. We'll leave it to each other. The committee makes a number of adjustments, which are made in the members of the committee's section and in the latter opinion. There's the most woe, I'd think, a change in public health proposal, that part of the sale value runs into a public health fund. That's even. to meet the goal that is shown in the bill to promote education in this respect and is in many ways irresponsible not to expect money to come in to cover costs of education. This is one of the most important changes. I suppose the manager of my section, giddy. The head of the welfare committee, then explain the change in the memory of the item. Many of them are completely acceptable. I suppose we in the greater part will support many of them, and despite everything, we have had an excellent solid solidarity in the committee. Regarding such measures as making dosages and flavors and the like, the Committee found the common conclusion after a considerable discussion that it would likely be best for such regulations to be placed in the Regulation. Is it suggested by all the representatives of the Committee in the Committee to Re-Elect? Under the opinion of the greater part, just to guard the form, write the porpoise. KINGs Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, strategist Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason, in advance. Under the latter article, all the members of the committee write why. The welfare committee, anyway. Councilmen Halldóra Mogensen, Chairman of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðjón of Brjánsson Brján, Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u14	President. We're here to discuss a bill to fix electrical fags and refill them. I'm not going to swerve my opinion on the committee in particular, it's already on the Generals web, and people can read it, but it says what the less part of the committee would have liked to do. There are some things that have been overcrowded, and I'm very happy with where we've ended up with this. This is a bill that first came into the treatment of the council from the Minister of Health in February and has been involved ever since. A well - arranged committee has often found the matter, and there were numerous reports. Then came many guests, some with a specialization of electronic equipment and their use. Linda Bold, professor John Britton, was amazingly good for the job of getting this party to meet with the committee to describe and share with us their expertise in this matter. Some time has come to settle matters, but there are three committee opinions, one from the greater part of the Committee, one from smaller parts and so after. Each of these committees contains some adjustments that must be considered. Now the smells of the change have been proposed, but in order to reach the best conclusions from all concerned, there are several forms of change that I would particularly like to agree with here. First, there are the changes made to the majority of the items that have already been published. A ban on Internet and social media was given, but solidarity was achieved that such restrictions were too extensive and that it was decided that it should be released. Then I would especially like to move on to an adjustment in the proposal for the prohibition against flavors that especially concern children and young people. It might be reasoned that most or all flavors might in some way appeal to children and could thus have far - reaching consequences for the bioavailability of nicotine liquids. It was decided that instead of forbidding such flavors to allow a minister to be authorized in a Regulation to set specific marketing guidelines and that if they were specially designed to appeal to children, there would be something else that might be called the Clubbubbles' name so that it would not appeal to children. This ensures the safety of children, but at the same time, for all who need access to the liquids they choose, it has been observed in the case of experts mentioned in the committee that flavors are an important factor in attracting smokers to electric cigarettes, thus strengthening the electric cigarettes that damage tobacco use. It's very important. There's nothing very good about nicotine. I don't think any human would be interested in catching a clean nicotine without any flavors. This will agree with a suggestion that the definition of electronic equipment will be changed to an extent that it will not be more extensive than it has to be. So it is stated in the committee's list of my section to change the definition, and it was agreed to do so. In terms of refill size and tank size, it was considered less significant that the sizes mentioned in the bill were too burdensome for users of electric effects. Thus a 10 millilitre refill would be very small and in order to reduce safety, increase consumer costs, and increase plastic pollution. Two millilitre cylinders would be too small, with most generators being used today with larger tanks. It was concluded that such boundaries were not required but that a minister should be allowed to set such restrictions later if necessary. The Commission's follow-up highlights that a minister does not set such regulations unless necessary, only when and if the international commitments of Iceland are necessary. I suppose, and the minister asked here for the word, that it would come up here to answer me to explain her position on the size and scope of its authority, that these sizes will not be limited unless Iceland is obliged to do so under international law. Now, the directive on which this law is based has not been adopted by the European Commission and therefore does not rest directly on Iceland's legal obligation to implement such sizes. Then there is the possibility that they will be revised in future losses. Is it my hope that this will be the end of the case? It is very important to make sure that the access of users is secured. A smaller section of the Committee also suggested that the change in the bill be made that electrocuting is banned in the services of partners and companies. It was achieved to eliminate the use of electronic equipment in corporate service areas, as studies have not been conducted to show that no damage can result from inhalation of steam from generators. Thus, restrictions on whether electrical fags might be used in private companies would be considered unnecessaryly burdensome. For restaurants and dance clubs, it is my opinion that the prohibition against electronic equipment in such places would be too burdensome. So I and the Pirats will vote against that change, but it will be chosen specifically for that, for this is a polite matter rather than health-related and should be allowed to decide for themselves. When we make laws like those discussed here, how important it is that we balance our interests! I would also like to mention the change in smoking in prisons, which is also very important. It is important to protect children who have never used tobacco from using electric smoke, but it is equally important that there be a wide variety of resources available to those who want to quit tobacco. These factors need to be balanced. Electric cigarettes are essentially destructive, and we must protect them as such. Too heavy a law would give the wrong message to those who are considering switching to electric cigarettes and must not compare electric smoke with smoking. It would simply harm the public health of the people of the land. I'm glad we've made the necessary changes to this bill that will ensure access to users to the important systems of electricity. I'd like to thank special ministers and committees and what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for welcoming these changes and for doing this business in this way and achieving this landing. I also state that the opinion of the committee of my body went further and had other adjustments that we didn't negotiate; those who had the opinion of that were well off. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and the one standing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u15	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for history, and uses the opportunity when treaties have reached the end of Congress. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and other committees for very good work on complex issues. It may be that someone may not feel that this is the biggest case of the council closes, but it is a big issue for the electric group that uses electric cigarettes and as big a community in many ways. I'd like to guess, though. A senator has almost proclaimed the answer I'm going to make and expressed it in some ways better than I will myself, that it is absolutely clear that there is no reason to put a directive on the basis of the law on the tank sizes until it has been recorded in the EEA Convention. Of course, it is not known when that will be, but the regulations that would be set by the secretary then serving as health minister would take into account the size that will be considered there. A respectable president. I wanted it to be totally in place so that nothing would make a difference with the order in which things happen. I believe that this is a successful conclusion in the language of opinion that arose and was immediately discussed with 1st. The point. I expect this to be further in order to settle the matter in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u16	Madam President. I am sad about all this and how it has been resolved. Today, it is most likely to enter the European Union's unauthorized directive on a case that is a new one of the needle in damage to tobacco smoking that when it first came into this building for processing, many people would admit to it that they did not know it. In these walls, Iceland's most distinguished agency, it has surely been an option to acquire knowledge beyond what would be considered a dog's worth in the case to be a dog's eye. The most skilled experts have come and declared their opinion and position and have produced scientific conclusions on the subject of woes, would have been looked to as best in these matters. National experts have particularly come to Iceland to discuss this matter in its implementation in committees. Sadly, these experts and scientists have not been listened to. Nor has there been a hearing of loud voices in society, people sending e - mails, protests, trying to get some kind of audience because, as previously said, a case very new; is like a new country that is still being realized. Of course, it is understandable that people want to be careful about children and their use of this technology, and I have a clear understanding of that. However, it is very important not to throw the water into your child's mouth; the common sense has not been heard in this matter. I know very well that this is not a place to ban woe. However, it is true that if it goes through today, it would have been legalized to put a stone in the streets of a health revolution, a decomposition that has been introduced to medicine and to thousands of Icelandic former smokers, a stone in the street of destructive measures that I'm going to allow myself to claim that there has been a possibility of saving countless lives in this country. That is why it is so important to consider the whole matter. It's not just about peddlers, it's not just about smokers, it's about society; it's about people we love and technology that have been shown to reduce the risk that they, our loved ones, get diseases and die as a result of them. I'm gonna repeat what I said up here in a pita the other day. A doctor on a world scale said to me: " If you could let all the smokers jump to the stage, you would see the numbers on the incidences of cancer down so marvelous that you wouldn't know where the weather was. That's what he claimed. He promised me. I truly agree with what happened. The head of the welfare committee, anyway. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, and celebrating the cooperation of the Ministers and other committees, however, have shown in this matter; they have wanted to have a conversation with us. But it is outweighed by tears that this matter of human life has been worked here in the palaces of the Allied Church as a political, not a science.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u17	A respectable president. I have always had serious doubts about this matter, as it does to understand it, rather than focus on prevention, no matter what it is discussed, especially in the light of vague damage to electric rock. This, of course, is a European rule and is important in finding a solution. I want to thank you. The members of the committee and the chairman of what? The welfare committee for good work in this case. I think there are some changes here that make the bill go a little shorter than in the beginning. I once said that I thought the bill that came here last year, but it all went too far, being a little off in terms of how to put rules for the first time on something that was unclear whether it was harmful - I likened it to killing a bomb. For so many who are quitting tobacco, cigarette smoking, this is a good tool. But I also understand other viewpoints up here. I consider much to be improved, and especially pleasant to hear from the highest level. Minister that he is not planning to establish a burdensome directive prior to the EU's final outcome on dose and other matters. There is, however, one adjustment proposal that I can't cope with, that's the prohibition on the restaurant. If we are to trust private sources to determine if a dog or a cat is in their restaurant, we should also be able to trust them whether they have electric cigarettes or not. People decide for themselves if they want to go to places where they allow them to use electricity or to go to places where they forbid them. Surely we can trust that. I'll challenge the adjustment proposal. There is no need to go beyond the directive. I hope that people only think about how far we're going to go on a case where the damage is still quite vague.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u18	Mr. President. This issue has reached quite a distance during the administration of the Committee, and all the adjustments are of the good. We will support them. On the other hand, we are not able to support some of the facts at this time. We have some very subtle modifications that deal with all the problems that are present in the case and if they are involved, it would be much better because the definition issues in such technical matters are absolutely key. By the way, I'm going to ask for a committee between 2 and 3rd. so that you can see to it that all the important things that need to be completely clear in such matters are handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u19	A respectable president. We're here to vote for electric fags. This is a set of instruments, equipment, and materials that many use to quit smoking. So here on one side is a matter of extreme human health. Here is an important step toward allowing electric cigarettes, though, in this way the availability of children is limited as possible. I want to take this opportunity to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, chairman of the welfare committee, for good cooperation in the processing of this case and the rest of the committee as I welcome this milestone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u20	A respectable president. During discussions on this subject earlier today, I spoke seriously about its existence and treatment. I would like to use this opportunity to explain my position because my words made it clear that I might not appreciate the much and careful work that has truly been done in connection with this matter. My criticism focuses primarily on the European directive on which the bill is based. At least I know what to do. A welfare committee, her chairman and vice president, as well as the highest. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir, has worked hard to get the best results in the case. I see it, I know it, and I know it, and I love it. That's why I and the Porta council will be supporting this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u21	President. I welcome this conclusion, and I think it's been good. This was a good work that we all did, and especially, I would like to thank, as I did in my talk earlier. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for his work and the highest. A health minister for coming to meet us and catching up with the good land I hope will hunt, and we'll all be happy with.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u22	President. I account for my vote. This is a new proposal that turns out not to be a bludgeon at restaurants and restaurants. I mentioned in my speech earlier that I thought it would be most comfortable to let the owners of a business decide for themselves whether to go inside and let people decide for themselves whether they want to go to a fishing place or another place. This is something we should be free. We're going to vote against this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u23	A respectable president. I'll say no to this change proposal because I think it's unnecessary and go too far. We're supposed to let the owners of a company decide for themselves whether they have dogs or cats in their restaurants.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u24	V.E.G. President. I think electric cigarettes are one of the most widely observed health issues in the past, as well as nicotine gum I use. So I'm against the fact that we're limiting this more than is needed. We are generally to allow people to decide for themselves how they are. I agree with what. paritaprevir Insolent Sigurbjörnsdóttir Arna: If you can have very dangerous predators in your room, you can have electric smokes. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u25	A respectable president. There is not a single calm as to how Congress is being held here today. A meeting is arranged before the data that will be discussed in the Hall Hall are completed. There is an invitation for committees tomorrow, even if there is information that the committees cannot attend a meeting or not a crew. Yet the chairmans of the committee are offering a meeting. They've announced a meeting on Sunday, even though they know they're not coming to a meeting either. I wondered, Mr. President, what kind of arrangements should be at the end of this arrangement. Is there so much need for management to get out of here, to get peace with government opposition, that all routine rules are being pushed aside? I urge Mr. President to let the council stop with a little more credit than this is headed for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u26	On behalf of the president, there has been no other program today but to agree entirely with the agreement made at the convention table this morning with members of the council. True, there has been some rushes, as is often true when people are struggling to finish their job and to get their crops to the house. I'm not in the middle of a situation like that. The head of the Middle Party spoke here; for example, I was ignorant of the fact that there were some objections to taking matters seriously because documents were not available.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u27	V.E.G. President. It's true that there's been a few speeds around here today. On the other hand, I agree with it with the highest. A president of the situation has been basically the one that was discussed at a meeting of the council classes this morning and, indeed, in my sense, yesterday too. It was clear that last night a deal was reached about the end of a council or payment and progress. I don't know any better than what has been going on today was completely consistent with what was discussed there. The same thing about today, at a meeting of the council groups this morning, the president considered how he envisioned his day. I understood that there was an agreement on that treatment, and if there's anything, things have gone a little slower than expected as the president set it up this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-72.u28	The president proposes that we continue the program, but the president is willing to meet with members of the council to review this if possible afterwards.
