ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u1	At the Generals Work Programme, 2rd was expected to be covered. The budget would be tomorrow, Tuesday, November 13th. Now it is clear that this will not work out but, most likely, the discussion will be conducted later in the week, i.e. Thursday, November 15th, starting at 0300. 10:30. In view of this, the president proposed a meeting of the prime committee and found with the members of the Parliament this morning to replace it with a work plan and to change tomorrow to a day of committee work, which will lead to legal committee work. It has been concluded that a meeting would be held on Friday, November 16, and then a second session would be held. the financial advantages of dead bodies, but that is not the case. It will be announced as soon as it is finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u2	A letter has been sent by the following advisers where the request is made to provide written answers to queries: From Minister of Foreign Affairs for a petition on the deck. 254, about Icelanders in Britain and Britain's evictions from the European Union, from Steindór Valdimarsson. This is from the secretary of transportation and the secretary of state for the inquiry of the deck. 257, on the translation of Icelandic law and regulations, from Jón Valdimarsson. From the Environment and Resource Minister for Information on Theft. 262 of the translation of Icelandic law and regulations by Jón Valdimarsson
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u3	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Organic Ministers, Social and Equal Opportunities Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u4	Mr. President. The third pack of energy has been discussed recently. According to an introduction to him from those who know best, his induction will not have much effect here on the country. Yet, some have had strong words that by means of the induction, whole business articles will collapse. To be honest, this discussion is most confusing. V.E.G. The travel, industrial, and innovation minister said in an unprepared question period last week, when the highest level was present. The minister was asked about the third energy package, by permission of the president: ▪ I also want to show that there is a problem with the fact that there are not many people who fight for it. The reason for fighting for it is that it is not so important. In the end, it's about the EEA deal. If you're going to take a trip and say they're not going to do this, it's gonna affect the EEA deal. Then you have to be ready for that expedition, and I'm not saying I'm not ready for it. That's what I said. Minister last week. If I get it, I'm at the top. Minister to say that the third energy package is not so important to us Icelanders, but if we don't bring it, it's the same thing as the information on the EEA contract as at the highest level. The Minister is not saying that she is not ready for the resolution of the EEA agreement. But does the Minister want to walk out of the EEA for an energy package that doesn't matter so much for Iceland, as it points out itself? It would truly be a great news and bad thing if this government was to cancel this greatest deal the Icelanders have ever made, and for a case that is not of major concern to us. The highest. The Minister made it clear here and now that the EEA contracts are not standing to break it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. In fact, I am glad that she was acting because there were more people than others. A senator who understood my words like a boy. A senator when I last answered this when I said I wasn't saying that there was no way I could go. So I have to cause it. Congress members are disappointed to say that there are no great news. I really don't want to cancel the EEA deal. The positive thing about it is that it is not bad news, as a matter of fact. Senator. When I talk about a expedition, I'm referring to the fact that it's never been tested, we haven't taken off control orders, and it would have to take a certain process. Of course, we do have an article entitled "No. " 102 at the EEA Convention, opening up the way for this kind of thing to go. I've also said that no one can answer for certain consequences if we didn't introduce this third energy package. That's the lead I'm talking about. I've put this in perspective with other cases. More and more people feel that the European Union does not respect the two support systems and that it is to be done. There are other cases that have gone quite far in favor of our constitution. So I'm not shutting down that if we're going to start some conversation with the European Union on the EEA Convention and there's a further power market, I'm here to discuss it. I'm just saying, we don't know where it's leading us, and I don't want to see it spinning so we don't see the end of it. That's exactly what I'm referring to, at the very foundation it's about the EEA deal. I believe the EEA Convention is our most important international contract, but there is nothing unusual about it developing somehow. Of course, he's evolved very much over the past 20 years, and there's nothing wrong with discussing the direction he's developed and whether we ever want to stop and say, "Hey, now we have to stop for a second." Has he developed into the direction that we feel good about? But I don't want to give up the EU deal, not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u6	Mr. President. However, there is a large disagreement within the board of directors on the third energy package. It was at least According to a government member of the media for the weekend, even more people say that the fiercest conflict occurs among groups of the class as the highest. Minister is vice president. There's someone under there now, and they're talking very clearly in the media about it. Iceland has already performed the most important changes resulting from the third energy package and a few changes during the induction process. In that light, the discussion is so remarkable. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she has discussed the matter with the Minister of Norway. Has there been any agreement with Norway for the energy package payment? Has there been an analysis of what would happen if there were none of the productions in this country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u7	Mr. President. I haven't had a conversation with my colleagues in Norway or any other minister there about this package of energy. I don't know what it's like with other ministers. In my first answer, I did not introduce the third energy package. There is no one who can answer for certain consequences if we did not make this package. But I'll have to agree with what. Senator that there's a lot of discussions about this case that's very contrary. You're talking like the four EU freedoms Convention on Energy will somehow go into effect at the induction of the third energy package. That happened years ago, in the first energy package, when all other humans were here. This is the main change in this market, a competitive Europe policy. You talk as if they're going to go into effect if and when the third energy package is created. They have also been in effect here for many years from the beginning, so that neither will they change. Similarly, the European Community on whether we can subsidize electricity to an aluminium or otherwise is something that has been happening in this country for many years. Nationalization has had to send its contracts abroad for many years. [[The president calls.]] These factors do not change whether or not we produce the third energy package, but they obviously need to be clear. The matter can be criticized, but the facts still need to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u8	V.E.G. President. According to the information obtained at the surgeon general's office, over 2,300 people are now waiting for various measures, of which 1,200 have waited for more than three months. Data obtained in the treatment institutions show that more than 1,600 people are waiting for treatment. This is about 4,000 waiting for needed action. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister what suggestions she now has against the 2nd. Funds that could shorten this waiting list. And I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may have wondered what it would cost, except for the pain and discomfort, to have 1,200 people on hold for more than three months, on painkillers, and elsewhere. Some 1,000 people are now waiting for routine replacement operations, and those who have waited for more than three months are 700 and are expected to have the right to travel abroad and to be treated there if they cannot be helped here at home. It has been observed that such activities are less expensive in the city of Reykjavík. This waiting list could be significantly shortened by allowing doctors there to perform these actions. It may also be that of these operations, hip and knee surgery, 100 were delayed in the last year because of an emergency that is naturally quite understandable, since the Lands Hospital is an emergency hospital. I'd like to hear what suggestions are given. A minister lives at 2nd. Funds that could shorten this waiting list and limit people's suffering.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Hv. A senator is particularly focused on replacement operations. The case has been considered in the Ministry. Because I have now taken my case only in general, especially waiting for alcohol and drug treatment on Vogi, it is proper for me to say that in terms of joint replacement operations, there are other rules on when people consider themselves to be on a waiting list and when it is not. In fact, there is a special waiting to get on a waiting list, although there is absolutely evidence that the person really needs an operation according to medical assessment. Hv. A senator asks what changes are expected in the 2019 budget. So it is to say that next year, the 2018/2019 annual convention, concludes a task specifically designed to shorten the waiting list for various actions. Now, in a budget bill, this amount, some 900 million, is expected. K., be permanent in the frame of the budget. That is correct. A senator here needs to be careful about things, such as developing the cooperation of health institutions, i.e. the strains that take these actions. This has been called in particular. It is the Landsspicians ▪ College Hospital, the Akureyri Hospital, and the Western National Institutes of Health, which have been called upon to put together more lines than have been used to ensure that people are not tormented after an operation when it is true that the individual should be in absolute priority. It's unacceptable, and I agree with that. A senator says that people will be tormented for months after surgery.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u10	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. She spoke of special emphasis on replacement operations. I could say: There are more than 1,000 waiting for lens replacements, 80 for heart replacement surgery, 130 for pelvic surgery, 69 for hysterectomy, 1,000 waiting at a Smokeloaf, 622 at the U.S.A. No, I wasn't ordering it up in a special row, top. Minister. Speaking of setting a waiting list, I raised the word and cut both my way and the minister's path. The word wait list means when a certain number of people are waiting in line for a particular service. The numbers I mentioned about hip and knee are from the surgeon general. I don't know if the word is defined by a surgeon as different from the Minister and Google, but it only comes to light when the Minister answers me in the second answer. But now I'm going to ask specifically again: Will privates be allowed to take action to shorten people's waiting time and to limit their discomfort and pain?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u11	A respectable president. It seems that while it may be simple to joke that a dictionary is different from a minister and Google feel something, etc., one of the duties of a surgeon is to explain and define a waiting list, it is important that a common understanding of what is behind it is important. I've made this especially up with the current surgeon, and it's on her schedule next year. I assume that since the office takes an interest in it and puts it first, it doesn't just focus on looking up the concept on Google. Of course, in any course of action, priorities are being worked. A senator asks about. Ophthalmologic and other surgical procedures are considered. A senator, apart from recent replacement operations, notes that we have achieved acceptable results compared with the countries around us, which we normally compare with.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u12	President. I was only going to ask the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to the Power of Mind. I understand that the Secret of Valiant spoke to a minister and had the assurance that the Society is losing its home at the end of the year. As we know, the Matrix has lost its closest partners, GET, mental health follow-up, which was defined as health care, which was dropped or dropped at least quit funding. The power of mind left has very little funding, and at the end of the year, it loses its home. Actually, more than 400 comrades are being left to Consolation with complete uncertainty whether or not they will function. Since this is a society that helps people with mental disorders and a serious problem, I don't feel that it is possible to leave people in such uncertainty, especially when they talked about using the autumn to discuss the future of the organization. Now that autumn is over, wintertime is over, and it is still uncertain what they will do about the exact setting of their home after a year's visit. Courage moves people who have been rejected elsewhere, that is now, but they look forward to not being able to care for the people. There is a huge need for such open resources, both for people who are finally taking the step and who seek help, for time and for outside, for rehabilitation and follow - ups, as well as for those who are at risk for suicide. They find tremendous demand for the ministry, and they have no idea how they can provide it in the future. It's unacceptable to make these knots. Then maybe I'll get back to the next part.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It is quite right to mention, when some of the changes made in mental health were followed by the role of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We had a discussion with the Source of thought about how this solution could be found. The preliminary solution was that the Ministry would come in with extra funding so that a mental force could maintain the facilities it had until the end of the year. It can be remembered that the Ministry of Health is having a contract with a labour agency. That contract is valid and has not been made to change it. But now in the fall of this fall, I know that they've been doing a lot of work there. That's not the final result, but it's coming. I just agree with what. A senator that in all measures of mental health and other factors, it is of utmost importance that certain diversity of state, a variety of flea resources are available. That is why the Office of Work and the Ministry have been considering other comparable options and in what way to find them the best way to the future. However, this subject is considered, and the work force is around it. It's not a formal landing yet, but it's coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u14	President. So it's the highest. Minister to say that this is entirely in the labour department's hands to determine this? Right now, there's a contract with the Labour Organization to 2018, that's 17 million people who are responsible for reinvestment of 15 people. If it's only this capital, it means that the work is being shut down in such a way. This is a lot more activity than this money from the Work Office would cover it, for example. Not a tirehouse for them. It doesn't make sense. I'm asking, is it not in the position of the minister to ensure that this operation continues to have a home?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u15	A respectable president. As I'm saying, Conspiracy is a contract with an employment agency of 17 million. K. That contract is in effect and has been fully completed. During the past summer, extra funds were installed to cover the six months until the end of the year. It is being considered how this can be introduced and what the need for a mental force is for capitalism, etc. Of course, that is true of the Department of Social Services and its institutions. We need to consider what we can do within the resources that we have, and that has not yet come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u16	A respectable president. Downtroddens are quite amazingly many, and some seem completely meaningless. It seems that the law cannot be carried out. For example, a recent court of Supreme Court states that unless we legalize the United Nations Convention, the building rules cannot be followed regarding the availability of the disabled. Then it is also so that only someone dear would appear to have elevators in the hands of a bus company. The latest example is that in Iceland health insurance, individuals who are most disabled, born disabled, young and familiar with technology and who want to save themselves, e.g. to get an R-net ablation of a chair called the X-ca-card iPad. These are things to simplify and make it easier for those who are severely disabled to sign for themselves, e.g. for physical therapists or when they pay for goods and other items. It's so simple, and that's why it's so incomprehensible to me that it's this way. You'd understand if it was something new, but it's not, some people get it and others don't. Then I ask: " Shouldn't it just be that those people who are really disabled and who have the will and ability to save themselves would be damaged? ' I can't see that paying the equipment is too much for a state fund because it's not such an obligatory number that's asked for it. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister, if she doesn't agree with me about the fact that we're seeing... - No, Minister of Health, this is health insurance. [[Compromise: Socialization...]] As a result, I ask myself, " Am I not making sure that health insurance... '... [[Foreground on: Asking Social Affairs Minister.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u17	The president read that the query was directed to the social and equal minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u18	It was supposed to have been changed into a health minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u19	Then I think that's the right thing to do. A senator is again given the opportunity to read the question. I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Minister of Social Affairs and Preparation. A health minister to respond. In case of a moment. A senator wanted to repeat his inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u20	You're welcome. It only shows how complicated the system is that it can become a health minister, social minister, transportation minister, and even my names. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The Ministry is incredibly complex, so I don't understand that the matter has not been simplified yet. I'm gonna repeat my question. We're talking about an R-net and an X-cave iPad for electrical chairs. These are for people who are really disabled, for example, born with disability. They are young people who want to save themselves, who want to be able to sign. It goes to the store and wants to sign itself when using credit cards. They themselves want to be able to sign with a physical therapist. They don't want all that stuff helped. I say for my part, if individuals think they can do this and want to do it, should Iceland's Medical Insurance refuse? The other has already said yes to some. We're here to encourage people to save themselves. I think we agree on that. I hope at least that a minister will see to it that these things are self-informed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u21	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator's case is complex, but fortunately it is also that the affairs of disabled people involve the community all and therefore all the lawsuits and the departments. But I especially want to answer that question. By mentioning that very soon after I took over the office of the health minister, I started work under the leadership. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir, and with the access of the Quantum Community, the Developmental Help, and other members, to get into the condensation of the auxiliary equipment. That case group has waited and has been set aside, i.e. He has not exactly been on the program for many years. It is especially important to look to the very nature of these technological changes that we see today and how we really need to update today's association with Iceland's Health Insurance, pay management, etc. The committee hasn't finished the job, but this is, as it is. A senator was just whispering to me right in this, one of the things on which the committee is dealing, i.e. the technical issue of solution. A senator mentions. The Committee is committed to inspect the legal environment, to review the Regulation rather than to review the implementation of this legal environment, the Regulation that we now have. I expect much of this assignment, and I agree with it. A senator's importance is that people have full access to the community so that they can participate, not only for themselves but also for the sake of the community, they all need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u22	A respectable president. Thank you so much for that answer. We must agree, according to all the discussion of professional ability and security, that this is a basic factor in the fact that many individuals who are in such a poor physical condition can go to work. I think it just needs to be settled as soon as possible because this is one of the things that, of course, are to be taken care of first, that help tools and other things are completely accessible, before we begin to demand that individuals be able to work. I know that some people who are in such a situation can work. They are highly qualified individuals in many fields, and we should make sure that they get these tools to save themselves and even work as they please.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u23	A respectable president. We agree on this, me and what. Senator. It's not just about sharing in a job market, it's about sharing in community everything, sharing in culture, social activities, etc. Hv. A senator turned his first question to a building policy, and I would especially like to see that when I was a environmental minister in 2009 and in 2009,2013, I put much emphasis on cooperation with the Micronetic Society on the access section of the building order. In fact, several times they have been picked up, and several times it has been done in cooperation with the Quantum Coalition and Developmental Help to correct such a return. It really needs to be on top of the priority of access, not just in the homes of those who need a better access, but in public space, in public buildings, etc. [[The president calls.]] What a vital issue of justice that is! I'll stay on the team with what. A senator and the Quantum Alliance in protecting that one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u24	Mr. President. At the beginning of 2017, the local minister of finance, Benedikt Jóhannesson, appointed a team to identify the extent and impact of tax fraud on Icelandic national society and how to reduce the black economy. The staff reported a large report almost one and a half years ago. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance how to extract the ideas and ideas of many people, and many of the great things, what the situation is, and how these projects are handled in the Ministry of finance. The chairman of the Committee summed this up in four main points in the final words of the report, and I would like to pray to the highest level. Ministers, especially in their comments, take to each group. First, it is the basic value of the tax system and the reduction of tax steps, preferably to one tax step, concomitant reduction of the tax that would reduce the precipitation. Second, an individual's requirements for becoming state tax collectors and generally suitable individuals to establish partnerships and to do business with the responsibilities involved. Then there were proposals that involved the chain of business responsibilities, e.g. in the construction industry, as well as to meet challenges and remain in the traveling work because of growth. Fourth, suggestions on how to limit the use of cash were provided. Its reasons are referred to here, shopping, and transporting large quantities of money between countries, not to be used by cash. The use of cash is an important aid in black employment and thus tax availability. I'd appreciate it if I did. The minister answered these questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u25	A respectable president. Thus, it is with taxation and efficiency that it is in itself an ongoing task to make sure that we reach our desired goals. However, this report has been published some time ago and is attributed to a work group set up early in 2017 and to several committees. In terms of the worth of the tax and whether we should proceed further with the proposals in the sink, last summer recommendations were made to narrow the gap between the steps and to increase this efficiency in the cost tax system. In the meantime, we have seen significant changes in the work environment in transport services, especially in gangs and substantial increases in pay. And there are other ways in which we can do this. However, the project on maintenance of the valuable tax system is not finished. That's what's going on at the Ministry of finance. This would be especially the sectors that are completely abject to a valuable tax that would be considered there. But I have to think that in recent years we have made significant changes in the value taxation system. In terms of the establishment of societies and the whole community rights, it has to be considered in other areas of view. We've been taking a special look at the chain of responsibility. It is also a matter of social security, as is the case with both these matters, with the budget and the chain responsibility. We've been through this before at the council. Then there's always an assessment with the cash. This proposal came up, it's not an opinion in the Ministry of finance today, and it's a good idea to recall how much 5,000 bucks. has actually been dwindling from the time they were recorded more than 10,000 bucks. This leaflet is the latest and not very high in international comparison. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u26	Mr. President. I appreciate the answers. I'd like to ask you a little bit more about the merit tax. I think the highest. A minister put it as if it were a strong-valued tax system, probably in the meaning of preventing leaks and avoidance. I'd like to drag him away only about government policy, but like the Independence Party, I'd like to aim for one step in a merit tax. So now, the chairman of the fine committee that came to this conclusion is a confidence within the Independence Party and has worked there for a long time, and I believe that he has there, even. Emerging a policy that has been within the category on the merit of the tax system. I'd appreciate it if the Independence Party had fallen from heading toward one level of VAT or whether this is a temporary recession.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u27	A respectable president. It's a good idea to get the steps of the cost tax system together better. I believe, however, that it is unrealistic to talk about this in the process of implementation unless we are in the process of achieving a reduction in tax burden. Now, I'm just trying to be a realist, but I don't think we're going to get together on such a system change unless we're having a down payment. This would mean that we were going to one step below 20% tax. We're not working on that right now, we're in the middle of other issues, and we don't see in the long-term government programme that there was room for tax doctors in the cost taxation system that would have to follow such a change. But it would happen at the same time, that we would bring up the lower level and take it into the merit tax system of articles that are there, outside today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u28	A respectable president. In 2002, the World Health Organization published guidelines for the construction of cancer programmes and recommended that such a plan be adopted to improve the effectiveness of cancer, to reduce incidence and mortality, as well as to improve the quality of life in patients. It also aims to improve quality of life in individuals with cancer with conventional, pre-emptive, early diagnosis, treatment and euthanasia. In a schedule of cancer, the equality of the subjects and practicality will be guided. Many countries have a plan for cancer, and Iceland has so far been the only northern nation without a complete cancer plan. In 2013 the then welfare minister, Guðbjartur Hannesson, appointed a counseling team for goals and measures in the cancer program. That counseling group returned their findings to the Ministry last year. The advice group says that aims for an oncology programme must be made available to live in a community where health prevention and early diagnosis aimed at minimising the risk of cancer should be emphasised. There should be a medical facility available where an individual assessment of cancer is made from genetic and family history risk factors. A group search is also mentioned. The main concern is that individuals receiving oncology should have an analysis and individualised treatment and that they have the right to discuss their issues at a professional meeting to ensure optimal treatment. That's why I'm asking the highest. Healthcare Minister: When is the highest plan? HCPs implement the cancer programme?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u29	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator proposes that a cancer program was submitted last year, and the Ministry has been working for several hours this year to review the suggestions made there. Many of these forces are already being developed or developed, e.g. is doing a powerful health - related job on the behalf of a surgeon in cooperation with the rural communities and currently living in rural areas, about 85% of the population that can refer to the health of communities. The plan of screening, which is one suggestion in the outline, has been set up. It is a consultant for the surgeon's office, and it is responsible for the country's availability at any given time organized a group search based on the scientific knowledge of cancer screening and their precursors. Furthermore, at the Land Hospital, the so - called ◯PET scan has been used, making significant improvements in the cures for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer in this country. Carcinogenicity registry has been available for decades, and it is under constant improvements and the possibility of a Norse partnership on the quality files of cancer. The oncology agendas set out ten primary objectives with related sub-targets, and I have set my priorities for four projects and will share them with relevant health institutions, which obviously play a key role in the implementation of the programme. First, it is that individuals with cancer and their caregivers should have the opportunity to have the most complete service by well - developed units of work and special staff. It is prerequisite for a person with cancer to be offered an analysis, treatment and care based on best knowledge, methodology, and equipment. These two factors are mainly held at the National Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri, and these two institutions will be assigned to provide a report to the Ministry, specifying what these measures are in place and what is lacking in the use of a cancer plan. If these two factors are met by a wide variety of professions, the premise for cancer patients to have adequate information sharing is one of the main objectives of the programme. A respectable president. I will answer the question in detail in the second entrance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u30	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Health Minister for the answers and to encourage them in these matters. The World Health Organization predicts an annual increase of 70% in cancer patients in the next two decades. The Agency is unlikely to prevent cancer diseases by cures but has to prevent new cases of prophylaxis. So it is important that people and communities have a good plan to look after how to keep up with the health problems, as well as how to deal so much better with those who are diagnosed with cancer. This would bring them back sooner to their business activities and/or would help them to live with their disease in their daily lives. By being organized to concentrate on the well - being and the need for service of cancer and to provide services in accordance with this, it will restore itself to a better feeling and shorter treatments on which everyone is making money. In that case, you are more likely to talk about the individual, that he is involved in a process that is supported by him, as well as in the best possible treatment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u31	A respectable president. This schedule also sets the priority for individuals with cancer and their caregivers to be offered a service based on an active quality record, thereby creating a potential assessment of results and compared to international criteria. This is also in harmony with the WHO tip. A responsible candidate in this project will be the office of a surgeon, a cancer registry in cooperation with the Hospital in Akureyri, and a Hospital of ▪ University Hospital. Finally, individuals with cancer and caregivers will be given the order of an organized, continuous, and united service provided at the right time. The responsible workers here are the Lands Hospital, the Akureyri Hospital, and the Center for Development, which conforms to the global health care response. A respectable president. Of course, this priorities will be arranged in a formal manner, and expected to be applied to the Ministry's homepage and confirmation of the subsidies that have been received from the Ministry and have been developed there to make the results visible to all, including those who enjoy the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u32	A respectable president. Briefly about meeting management, of unprepared queries. Today, there is an extra query period, usually on Mondays, where one more question is asked. It's usually the government groups that take this only extra space that's good. It's been asked three times what's left, and always asked Secretary of the Left Green. Left green has asked twice, once the Minister of the Independence Party and once the minister of the parish and the lndependence have asked one of their own ministers. I wondered, " Is this really the right scene? Is it true that the senators are asking their own Ministers in unsubstantiated inquiries? Is that normal? We have seen that government witnessing is far more important than any other interests. You have wondered, " Is there any unprepared inquiry, in which a person is to remain by what I understand in a certain operation of a minister? Is it well new when the government's members are being asked for the minister of the government? ' [[The president calls.]] There may be some good questions, but I wondered if this is a suitable scene. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u33	V.E.G. President. I just want to come up against what. A senator who spoke before. The set point is that twice a week is not prepared for queries. The government situation, each class of its own, gets one query each time, a so-called extra runt on Monday, and then there's a chance for the members of the board to ask for ministers. I think that's very normal. I think it's a good thing, and I'd like to state that I think it's a good thing for a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. I'd like to come up here to make a special statement that I like the freedom of Congress very good in the Ladyalis, whether I uphold the government or not. The arrangement to add one request was not merely to allow the government to exchange it regularly but to be for us members of Congress. I think it's very important. We give them to our counsellors. It is important that this happens in the Pontu All Passis, whether in the form of a query, in the form of a discussion, or in any form. I think it's very important. We are to respect this right of all of us, and we should not delude ourselves in this regard. I was going to make a decision that we should respect the right of all of us to participate in just how to communicate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u35	A respectable president. I agree with that. I respect the freedom of the council in this regard. I just wondered if this is the right scene. When this extra space arose, there was a lot of discussion about increasing the exact amount of time in the council work, but for some reason there was a longer period in unprepared inquiries. I'm just wondering if we're redirecting this in the right direction because we're in the majority management business, and it's a little weird when the superintendents ask their own Ministers. At the same time, I totally respect it, and I don't have anything to ask them about either. I'm just wondering, in the discussion, if there is a normal field of surveillance for the European Commission to mix this up in some way, whether we should have it more with us at the council or in some more formal way than unprepared inquiries. Not a serious point. I'm just calling attention to this, and it's interesting how the inquirys go between the board members, it's really fun to look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u36	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for recording and speculation that I feel is entirely right. We do a certain role in the government, but I would also like to stress that I agree with the members of Congress who discuss the freedom of the council, whether in a government or a government position. We need to figure out how that freedom of speech will be best used, both in the maintenance role of the anticoagulant, which is extremely important for all democratic developments and discussions, but not as much as the members of the council, I know that it has been very well there, can also find their numbers. According to this, I strongly want to direct it to the administrative part to stop offering suggestions on limiting speech classes, e.g. on financial or other important issues, and further suggestions that promote freedom of speech for all members of the council, whether in a government or a government position.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u37	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Marine and agricultural minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, for discussing the holding of land and the possible limitations of it in terms of conditions such as camp and land. In recent years, there has been some debate in the community on land ownership, and it is clear that many people worry that Iceland is reluctant to lose possession of resources on land. In September, the highest power was given. Ministers of the marine road and agricultural sector consider a group of workers to review the provision of habitats. It provided eight suggestions on how to maintain agricultural land and live in the rural areas by changing land shapes and shapes. I think it's important to hear the highest attitude. Minister for these suggestions and that they will be discussed here at the council Hall. I think the whole country is a resource, the land itself, the soil and the vegetation that thrives there. Some countries are used for food production, others for outdoor purposes, and can follow country's other benefits that are still increasing its value, e.g. Fishing and water rights. The treatment and use of the entire country are relevant to the whole country, both now and to the future. It is a major public benefit in the administration and management of the country and therefore cannot be agreed with the same rules for buying and selling land as on any other real estate. The population is now about 44% of the country, but the land which is neither national nor urban is then more than 50% of the country. Iceland's farms, according to its view, are now 7,000, and in recent years the pursuit of uninhabited people has increased in Iceland. At the same time, the possession of resources is shifted from country to country, but questions about collections of property have been raised and problems have been raised because of unknown and vague responses from the earth. If the earth is destroyed, valuables, such as housing and farming, and roads, distribution systems, and telecommunications will be lost, as well as communities in rural areas. Therefore, possession, provision, and responsibility for land need to be in the hands of the people of the land. Governments can use various means to influence the provision of the land. In addition to the above procedure, legislation on farm conditions, setting the requirements for agricultural use, limitations in size or number of real estates owned by the same parties, the pre-requisite agreement of the public bodies for property exchange, and meeting objective criteria for such decision making, price control rights and clear pre-sponsored rules. The way I believe that it is possible to go directly into law or regulation is the condition that individuals who gain possession or rights to agrienvironmental use should have a legal home in this country or have had it in the past for a certain period of time. I believe such restrictions are not to be bound to land in agricultural uses, but to cover the whole country. Many of the suggestions in this report have been discussed before our distribution. The reason I think even. that we need a firm foundation. On one hand, the implementation of the strategy of rural society needs to be prepared, and on the other hand, national registration needs to be improved. Governments and the general public influence land use through rural planning. It can set goals for agriculture and sustainable land use. If rural society uses strategy better than today, it would be based on the objective criteria called postponing. Farmers can define agri-environmental land to be maintained in agri-environmental conditions and also land where whole populations are considered to be desirable and can introduce more views than agrienvironmental use, such as growth of communities, security grounds, national monitoring, memory monitoring and nature protection. Improving the registration of land ownership is also a prerequisite for the use of targeted instruments. So I'd like to ask the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers, how the opinion of an employment team on reimbursement of agricultural resources will be followed. Which of the initiatives of the group would be most challenging to cooperate with? What methods are most efficient to ensure that land resources are owned? Whether and how will the Minister cooperate with other Ministry to ensure control of land resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u38	A respectable president. The subject under consideration is based on the work that then the ocean dignitary minister ordered people on June 16, 2017. At that time, the then secretary of the five - man task force set up to revise property on the farm. The team was directed by the Ministry of Employment and Development at the Bureau of Prominents, and also by the National Association, Department of Justice, Economic and Economic Affairs, as well as the Environment and Resource Ministry. I presented this report on the scene of the government, and the reason is simply that real estate and land matters involve many departments. As a result of the discussion that took place, prime minister arranged to appoint a group of workers to lead the joint employment of the council, as reported in a report from the Ministry of Presidents on October 8, 2000. The primary objective of this work must be to assess legitimate ways to set general limitations on the size of the land and/or the number of real estates as well as those associated with them can be used properly. At the same time, the role of the task force is to consider possible ways to prevent land use for other uses. The goal of that work will include: to seek ways to ensure that, if not considered as a basis for continued agricultural use, the maintenance of land management is maintained, although the traditional agricultural use will remain. The purpose of such a procedure must be to counteract the population's reduction and maintain the population based on the relevant region. A member of the Ministry of Prime Ministers is represented by the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers, the Secretary of Economics and Economic Affairs, the Minister of Justice, the Environment and Resource Ministers, and the Minister of Transport and Development, as well as the representative of the prime minister who will direct the work of the company. The report given to me was tore up the main legal adjustments possible in order to maintain agricultural land and to live in rural areas. In view of their work, the work group had older and current economist laws, legislation in Denmark and Norway, and commitments in the European Union under EU rights. The task force concluded that there was an opportunity to attack the specified legislation in line with the stated objective of maintaining agricultural and agricultural habitats in the rural areas. The adjustment could be one or even more in order to achieve the desired goal. The report also discusses simple land exchange administrations and land solutions from agricultural uses, benefits and defects, and possible routes. It is felt that the task force is obliged to take action, either by a simple administrative process or by supporting this role of the Minister. The report will be presented as a basis for the work I managed to do earlier on behalf of the Ministry of Presidency. Our goal should be to maintain a food - producing land and that most of the land's farms will be used for the benefit of individual areas and the country as a whole. It is felt that the task force is not excluded from implementing specific instruments related to national rights such as water and hunting rights. However, it should be noted that it has been the main policy not to exclude salmon and trout rights or other resources from farms when changing owners. It is true, however, that when the state sells land for some time, the custom has been that the earth - based rights are separated and remained in public property. There are some things that violate the prerequisite prohibitions of the landings of foreigners. However, such holding on to large countries should not be easy and therefore grounds for reexamination and the potential for intensifying regulations in this regard. But on that road, it is important that we respect our international commitments. To me, our goals are clear. It is primarily about maintaining food - producing land and just as much as most of the land's farms will be used for the benefit of individual areas and the country as a whole. To me, it is to be a guide to the work ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u39	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative, for taking this subject into consideration, as well as for the highest degree. Minister for taking part and placing his weight on the balances of the discussion. Icelandic agriculture is a traditional industry that we all associate with, in its own way, as most of us are from the seaside or from the countryside, unless both are. We live in a time when large areas of territory are not necessarily owned by Icelanders themselves. In fact, a number of farms and valuable resources associated with them are in direct and indirectly owned by foreigners or foreign lawmakers. There are several ways to open up the EEA meeting, and that's mutual. Icelanders can thus attach themselves to skis within the EU, and several countries have benefited from this. Mr. President. We want agriculture in Iceland to be handsome and that land, which is in short supply, is well and practical for the future. We look at green agriculture growing and prospering and that we link the standard production much more market conditions at one time. Many parishes are available for local farmers, and we must be careful not to burn any bridges behind us. In 2004, for example, at the General Convention of Earth's Convention in 2004, it was considered that this is not the same need for agriculture as before, but it would be important to protect land used for agriculture, that this article is developing rapidly, and it would be wise to be careful that a good country is in place for future agricultural production. Mr. President. It is killed in a recent report by a staff on land ownership that it is important that agricultural authorities are able to pull down and interfere with the process, but things do not simply rest on the shoulders of planning authorities. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on his position, on this matter, and on the top. Minister would like to add a word. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for taking up this case and the Minister for being here to answer and with her input. This case has been a lot to discuss over the past few years and is actually very serious and sensitive on the way because, as soon as we want the whole country to be inhabited, which I think most people agree on, and take good care of soiling, we may be careful not to charge the ground with any absolute rules and bans. On May 31, 2017, there was a problem. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir raised a written inquiry to the Minister of Justice, who said this, with the permission of the president: To prevent foreign trades, which do not have a legal home and a permanent home, on land, including: Earth owned by the State? If so, what will their basic principles be? The reply of the Minister of Justice was received on September 8, 2017, in which he announced the order of a service group that turned out in August 8, 2017. Their eighth point states: ▪ Any kind of segregation of citizen's rights (e.g. Real estate owner (U.S.) includes discrimination and violates the commitments of the Icelandic government under the EEA Convention. The task force has concluded that it is unacceptable to provide resources related to the civil rights divorce. I want to draw attention to the way Danir handles this. Since Danish law makes its demands richer than Icelandic law, it is responsible that all who want to obtain property rights for property in Denmark or who have lived for five years. [[The president calls.]] Is this something of the highest order? Aggressor could take comfort? I ask the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u41	Mr. President. In increasing numbers, we see rich people buying up farmed ground and not going to continue using agricultural products or innovations. As we do today's law, everyone in the EEA can do business with farms and don't follow them. The campaign set up in 2013 included restrictions on the property of foreign people on earth. It was canceled for fear of EFTA. Danes have provided strict conditions for the purchase of farms in their country. That, in fact, is the case. Necessary living on that planet was required to have purchased farms. This prevents the earth from moving on to a few rich people. ESAs have not been involved in these laws in Denmark. We left greens have repeated proposals for a review of land and land reimbursement and proposals for the government to cross-group, protection and land registration to support decision-making and land use. I believe that it is important to work with the proposals of a domestic possession group and I also believe that landowners live here and have a legal home, that breeding land is not adopted by other family activities, and that most of the country's population would remain in such a state as the best setting for living society. There are about 18,000 people in a rural area who rely on land today in one way or another. Farming is and becomes an impenetrable part of our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u42	Mr. President. The proposals of the Committee to legally establish residence conditions, such as conditions for use, legal requirements, and national limitations, are not bad. They are, in fact, essential to good management of the resource of the estate. But it is most unfortunate to intend public approval when some sort of purchase agreements are in progress, to legally establish a job area-related premium, or to create some kind of price control rights. These are actually the means of entering a free market. On the other hand, if we are going to ensure that such resources as land are well used in the community, this resource needs to be viewed as limited and oversight or possession of a country as a form of a single resource. It is natural to have clear rules about that. The other is that it is very unfortunate how much this discussion of land is controlled by fear of foreigners coming up and buying up Iceland, especially in view of the fact that there are treaties and those treaties that allow them to buy land in Iceland, as well as allow Iceland to buy countries throughout Europe. It may be that someone may feel that this sacrifice is too great in some nationalistic sense, but there is no other way to say that there is a great deal of agreement that these countries have made together in view of the limited quality and limited resources of the world around the world, not only in Iceland. Instead of trying to restrict property to civil rights or similar because of some nationalistic reason, it is reasonable that we take care of the resources assigned to be well used and in the way that serves the interests of the whole community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u43	Mr. President. I am pleased to have the opportunity as chairman of the group of Philbolt's House of Congress to highlight the clear direction of the party that we do not want the land to be sold from under the people. Understandably, there is the financier in view of information about the existence of foreigners in foreign trades here on land. A report on the possession of farms provides suggestions on certain changes in packaging and land shapes and indications that seem to be more efficient in maintaining agricultural and agricultural habitats in the rural areas. In particular, in this country we must take into account Danish and Norwegian dishes in these areas. Danish law on this subject aims to ensure normal and varied agricultural use, taking into account agricultural production, nature, environment and culture, and having clear regulations for farming. The goal of the Norwegian law is mainly to contribute to the efficient protection of real estate in agricultural uses, which at any given time seems to be best for society. Here, work is taking into account more fully the laws on these subjects in our neighboring countries. We can't, Mr. President, see that foreign parties are buying up whole dollars and five dollars. It's time to end. The country is the foundation of Iceland's sovereignty.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u44	Mr. President. In the forwarding government, led by the Sigmunds of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, the Independence Party gave a report on the holding of foreign parties of property and land. This was done in 2015 and even in the past. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. the current minister of justice was on the I agree with the main objective of the Commission, which showed that foreign investments increase prosperity and diversity in Icelandic society and employment, that it is most successful to improve the level of freedom in this area and to reduce access to such ones where possible. Yet, we have natural limitations, especially in public interest. But what's the problem today? It is mainly that there is an opacity in rules and procedures, in a sense, a suitable policy, which, in part, exists. To the people outside the EEA, and sometimes it depends on who is the minister. The committee felt that at the time it was important for the development of rules in this field to be kept as equal as possible, e.g. About nationality or residence. In other words, the purpose of using the most important part of the world should be outweighed by the possession of national or foreign sources. Semiticity in this respect created a positive view of investment in this country and, of course, remained unequivocal within the EEA area. I'll agree with this. That is the purpose of our thinking, not whether it is Icelanders or foreigners. If the principle of freedom is to be limited in these matters, it can be complicated. However, I would like to point out that it is possible to set rules, e.g. as in Denmark for about five years, but such a rule is well defined, absolute. It also applies to the Icelanders. On the other hand, regardless of whether they are foreigners or foreigners, we must discuss too much of the burden of a country on the hands of a few. I don't think it's going to be too late to discuss that. We can even see it. in fishing - and I come to my second speech - that the legislatator gives certain indications that too much compression, such as, for example, is too much. on fishing clearances, the threat of public interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think we must consider such guidelines carefully and see if they should. to place some restrictions on the possession of land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u45	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u46	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the antiquated discussion. Recently, there have been some discussions about land ownership, for many people are concerned that too many land has gone off owned by the Icelanders. On the basis that the whole country is a resource, i.e. The land itself, the soil, and the vegetation that thrives there must be action. The greatest appeal has been to the benets of hunting and water rights. The pursuit has been great among people who are not permanent residents in this country and who are foreign citizens. So here it is important to stop and ask: Are we selling resources from abroad? Like the one mentioned here earlier, we Icelanders do not normally sell resources from abroad. Icelanders may only possess the inactivation rights of water spills and ground temperature for household use. Energy industry should also be owned by Iceland as well as by energy distribution. In the fishing industry, there are strict rules on foreign ownership in Icelandic farms and fish industry. Also valid in Iceland are the limitations of international planning for air traffic. So I ask, "Why doesn't the same value about the resource in Iceland?" The solution has been mentioned here. This means that we have returned our wages on earth for years and years of continuous living in Iceland. I'm calling for government policy on farms because that's part of this case. What are the best ways to use this resource? Can economic motivation be used in the tax system to encourage the use of farms? Is it possible to place less real estate taxes on new land than the one that has not been used? V.E.G. President. It is important to keep basic information in order. It has to be fixed. Only then can you know the scope of the project and make practical plans for use. It's a regional policy, it's a nature protection matter, it's a resource matter, it's a co-operation. This is the case with our descendants.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u47	A respectable president. It is only natural for us to discuss the suggestions of this work group on the limitations of property farms based on some forms of friendship. But I'd like to add a few topics into this discussion that I don't want to forget if we're going to establish a rigid way of possession of the farm, which I'm not going to rule out the need to go over and is not against. I just want to remind you that as soon as we start discussing the limitations of property on the farm, we're cutting someone's rights, we're potentially cutting people's property, etc. What we must also remember to discuss in this regard is the responsibility of having a home. For a long time, I have requested that we take that discussion more and more clearly because the demands of the lawgiver make for those who have and keep livestock can have a huge impact on the gathering of farms. We have various regulations and regulations in the laws on property houses. We have many laws about the duties of those who work under certain laws. Sadly, though, we have not been able to gather the responsibility for owning land and how to care for it. It's a much bigger project than I'm worried about the property of foreign people in Iceland. It is a talk that is extremely limited to salmon fishing, rights, and hunting that may be handled in other ways, such as. with the limits on the number of votes in the hunting companies, by setting limits where I think it would be normal. At the same time, we need to talk about a front for farms. The problem in rural areas is also becoming too many owners. The tenants often differ, they are incompatible, and there is no result of the use of farms, which often creates huge problems and is growing. We too need to pay attention to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u48	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for requesting this matter on the council program. This is a case that has been somewhat discussed in the past few years, and it is now a report by a workgroup on the review of land ownership. At first glance, the suggestions given by the majority of the workers seem quite reasonable, but in this matter, it is important for others to be moderate. Hv. A senator who started this discussion asks the highest question. Marine and agricultural minister on how to ensure that the control of resources is maintained in the land. To me, this is not necessarily the most important question, but rather take care to ensure that farms and resources that they may follow do not gather on the hands of a few individuals, of any nation they may be. A lack of possessions is never desirable, and in this case it is intended to reduce the number of the earth into the inhabited earth, which is not desirable. In this respect, it is important to look to the future when it comes to valuable resources, such as water rights, such as more water sources. Senators have entered. Therefore, I believe that the most important suggestions for the work group are to legalize in aquifers, No. 81/2004, country size limit and/or number of real estates, respectively, to legalize in apartment law, No. 80/2004, set-up conditions, i.e. the conditions for developing agrienvironment schemes in order to have a home or a regular home and/or to legalize agri-environmental use. It is important that the minister immediately arrange these suggestions and hopefully we see the results of that work here at the council as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u49	Mr. President. The trade of foreign rich people on earth is a concern, and it is vital that they be legally restricted immediately by law. Marriage is not new in this country. In recent years, however, rich people have taken over whole parts of the country. Governments have stood afar off and watched without action. The irony of fate is that at the same time as we celebrate a 100 - year - old sovereignty, we are following our country into the hands of foreigners who do not want to build it. In a number of countries, the land and the number of land mines are restricted to foreign trades. It is reasonable and reasonable to agree to set limitations in this country, as well as to reduce habitats, natural and environmental indicators, and culturally. The EEA Treaty provides an open and legal way for foreign people to land markets in Iceland. Surprisingly, the government has put no restrictions on these matters, as the laws of our neighboring nations say. It would be nearly best to look to the Norwegian language about the place where people live on the ground. That law does not violate the 40th grade. The EEA Convention and it should have been passed in a long time ago. The earth's nest is in harmony with our ideas about land's flourishing habitats. Then there's a minister who gives foreign sources outside the EEA permission to buy land. This is a clear example of how the Council has delivered his power. It is reasonable that the legislative legislator, the General, decided for himself what leaveout should be given from the law of property rights and rights of real estate. The Eastern mayor recently said that it was a failure to restrain the politicians from large - scale trades of foreigners. Mr. President. It is our duty to protect the country. Our nation's existence is due to our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u50	A respectable president. I've been interested in the development of these cases for a long time, but I think it's very important to us Icelanders that there's land everywhere, that there's light in the next town, that there's no hole in the nest, and then, of course, long-term development is important. Because of the tenaciousness of this market, it is appropriate to look into history. By 1990, two thirds of the farmers owned their land, but at the beginning of the 20th century, they were less than a third, and by the turn of the century, each tenth of their farmers owned the ground. In other words, we have previously tried the arrangements for the produce tools to be used by the wealthy. I don't think anyone wants it back. This shows that it is not natural to have farmers own their land. It's a product of politics. It was a small class of big - estate farmers, the church, and the State that owned the land. Today, it is a different age and unlikely that the church will again be the landlord of farmers in the country, but now we are dealing with today's wealthy people, as the examples have proved the past few years. Large areas on the northeast corner and on the Westfjords have come to belong to foreign people. Then Icelandic rich people have also purchased large lands. Some may remember the company of life that had, if I recall correctly, on a quarter of the ground here 10 to 15 years ago. It was supposed to be a real big house, but it went the way it went, like a lot of grand Icelandic plums - boned bones on their heads. Some were sold to Icelandic farmers, others, such as the Earth Flatey of the Hornfjord, sold to Shinney Hearts, which now run the largest cow farm of the country. The proposals of the Outfit are excellent. It shows that you can move to an area where you live and where you live. It is better for those who gather the earth to be required to make sure that the earth is new. The problem with this arrangement, however, is simple: When farmers do not have their land, it is difficult or impossible for them to invest in the earth. They have little bets to build a fishery or a stable house. Although they may mortgage their property in buildings and terrestrials, it is not as fast as they can. Thus, for one generation the ground becomes some kind of settlement in former farming practices. Whether it is heirs who live in the southwest corner that owns the earth or someone who lives on it is true that no matter what. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I think that it must be looked to to to reduce the impulse to bury in few hands. [[The president calls.]] It's the basic problem, and it doesn't matter whether the owners are Icelandic or foreign - and it's a pleasure to hear a further pace in these matters, such as the highest level. The minister came on, for you can wait all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u51	Mr. President. I'm going to start by highlighting what I said in my first speech, it's unfortunate how much discussion is about the national background of those who intend to use it. Some of them what? Congressmen are acting like land trade somehow cutting Iceland's national rights against the landplay. But it isn't. I repeat, there is no way that foreigners will buy land or crops. Furthermore, they should not be left to lie. Birgir Despite the sale of individual lands, Þórarinsson's liver that no part of the country was all sold to foreigners. And I don't know that any such thing exists. It's about resources. It's not about nationality. It is important to consider the resources that come with the earth, especially with resources that are easily overused or over-used, and resources that are at high risk of shortness or exposure to man's resources. The compression of ownership is also a dangerous trend. In this context, it should be viewed, not as agrienvironmental debate, but as a global resource debate, even in farms. Today, however, there are still some of the top issues involved in the Department of Economic Affairs. Agricultural minister approach to land management. In the context of such resources as water, fishing rights, dirt, farms, rock mines, or other, we need to consider whole - souled how we approach a regular work on land use. Of course, shoppers are important buried cases, and it is only natural for us to focus on that special situation. But let us avoid being blinded by tradition in these matters, when significant changes are taking place in the value of earth - related resources. I suggest, Mr. President, that all of us agree to leave the fear of foreigners outside the chamber and emphasize the resources in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u52	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for allowing us to discuss this matter here. From the end of August onward, we will discuss the opinion of a working group on the review of land ownership. The objective of the work force was to ensure the economic relationship between Iceland and Iceland, to ensure a link between land-to-infested habitats and the need for farms to be new to agriculture, i.e. for food production. What's the problem? Like a lot of snoozes. Congress officials have established the fact that international fortune - tellers sitting around with their money are buying a large piece of land on Icelandic scale, they do, and they don't cause them to sleep if they buy up the whole valleys or companies. Ask yourself: " How do we manage to put reasonable limits on land or real estate owners? What does it matter? In my opinion it is three, the size of the country or region being sold, to provide limitation for the collection of areas and also to important benets, e.g. Fish or other agricultural devices, do not have large numbers of people, and do not allow areas that are important for agricultural use to remove them, perhaps to be destroyed, and to belong to these graffiti. I am pointing to the way Danir and the Norwegians go, and I am amazed that we have not already adopted comparable rules and are in Denmark and Norway, where real estate rates are limited, both in farms and in size. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u53	Mr. President. I would like to stress that it is most successful to increase freedom in this area. We do know, though, that certain viewpoints are trudging on that which has been reflected quite well here. I'd like to underscore our view of restoration that it does not matter whether Iceland or foreigners are earth's owners, but we should focus our eyes primarily on the use of the earth. We are deeply concerned about the compression that takes place, including On the resources. Clearly, the legislator has taken it before and warned of resource compression on a few hands, including For the way of the sea, that it is not of good things. I believe there is something we should consider with a very open mind. We also place great emphasis on the fact that farmers themselves are as free moral agents in the provision and use of their earthly bodies. We can see that the current agricultural policy, whether in the milk or in the sheepfold, requires increased economy and compression. That, whether more or less, means that countless earths will be ready for other uses. The range of farmers for action must remain. For farmers, it may be a sad thing to have great limitations on futures. It is able to reduce the prices of farm farmers who want to get out of the article. It can also help farmers who want to get out of business to be larger. In addition, it has to be careful that the use of the earth can take on more factors than conventional agricultural techniques. It is obvious that there will be an increasing number of jobs in the country, not through the old industry, clean and smart, marine soil and agriculture, but from the secondary branches of these traditional branches, such as those through innovation, evolution through tourist farmers, forest farmers, survivors, as one farmer told me about the day, and so on. We must start thinking about our country in a way that is not what we have in the past. The structure of the land area, the expansion of the soils will be through new fields in connection with the seaways and agriculture, and we must give farmers room and freedom to act. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Sea dignitary and agricultural minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, answers and all of them. Councilmen who have made their point here. I am very happy to hear that the report will be followed, and reiterate its importance, and that the proposals there will be implemented. It's like the highest. A minister entered the area where farms are the foundation of the work and of the subjects, or has been to date, and the goal of maintaining agricultural land, living and strengthening communities. However, as I entered my first talk, I emphasize that we watch all the land and resources, the land now in agricultural uses as well as those that have been desolate and have even been there for many years. Our whole country is a resource, and we must not lose sight of it. As we have seen in the discussion, innovation and growth are particularly in the form of something we may not now know, a variety of innovations. I just want to come up with the country's insistence on living in the country. It's connected to my mind right now. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came on, responsibility, and responsibilities of possession of land. It has nothing to do with nationality. Rather, it is that those who own land and plan to be responsible for living where the land is or in the vicinity of it. As I also came into the previous talk, it is important that we prepare the instruments we employ, whether by law or by regulations, by knowing the country, to record and organize it. On this basis we can create incentives for innovation and innovation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u55	A respectable president. I thank the advisor as well as the members of the council who have participated in this discussion. There have been extensive reviews, various viewpoints tore up, and certainly different views on the matter. The views presented here are familiar with my discussion of the report presented, as well as the discussion that has taken place within the government on the subject. For good reason, the Ministry of Presidency commands a cross-cutting group. It's in the middle of different schemes. The Ministry of Justice has been mentioned here to provide for the purchase of non - Jews on earth according to certain rules. The Ministry of Economics is holding property on farms. This has to do with a groundwork plan in the company secretary's work field as well as the environment of the environment secretary's work field, etc. In the big context, though, I'd like to say that when people are talking about the immediate need to limit foreign sales, it may well be that they have a point of view. We must also look at the other end of the situation, which is the owner of the country. The farmer, the landlord, has his rights, and we also need to keep in mind the proper course if we feel this way. There is the possibility that all restrictions on possession will affect the value of the property of the individual. The report reviews the ideas presented here and is very much involved in the discussion that concerns the affairs of these countries of the north, especially Denmark and Norway, and all good things about it. This will be continued. The course that goes on and on. A saying that the Ministry will direct this work on the basis of its approval, and I know that it is being called out for representatives of this task force these days.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u56	A respectable president. Each government knows how many people are in each year. Each year, typically 4,000,4500 people, then have a particular group of individuals who need special support for the community after secondary high school years. Therefore, the government is required to have rhythms on the size of the population, which has impaired working ability and development, and to make sure that there are resources and employment opportunities for this group. In my opinion, it is not just irresponsible and waste of long - term investments not to do so, but it is the surrender of modern society and has little to do with humanity itself. Could it be that the government and professional life, the system such as this, feel that they have been doing their part when school is completed for young men with impaired skills and development in the various courses of work and education? That there's just nothing more to do? All of us need to ask ourselves, " How can I better open up my community to plan for the diversity of my everyday life? ' Happily, many companies have come to realize their social responsibilities and the tools in their own variety. But they also need support to take the step. It occurs by means of instruction, including examples, such as those provided by Jehovah's Witnesses. Governments themselves, as well as our common motives. The government itself can do a lot of things. Happily, the matter has been established by the workforce, but the board of directors and its institutions are also to take the lead, as well as a good example. When a respectable president is faced with discussing his child's dreams, when it becomes large, dreams that may function in the most everydayity, he does not stop talking about his child's dreams, desires, or needs, though he knows that it will be difficult to fulfill even if there is only a violation of what a child dreams of. You encourage your child, not because he is unrealistic or completely blind to his child, but because this is possible in Icelandic society. 'Cause these dreams, at least Part of them, can be met by the courage to change and take us further as a community. You see, society's weight can be strong too. It's supposed to be. We should be quick, analyze the subject, and set out measures that really help, so that children who come from a career will remain a part of our everyday life, including. through work, social work, or whatever. That they won't be isolated in the homes with little connection to reality from day to day. If obstacles are encountered, they must be attacked by any means necessary. If the computer says no, the program needs to be changed. Then a change is needed. If the system does not support the diversity, the system needs to be changed. That is why I ask the minister of the question I have asked: What is he going to do to induce an enterprise and public institutions so that they can see their advantage in recruiting with limited skills and ensure that there is some option at the end of high school, since the size of this group is somehow known? Then I ask the highest. Minister: Will he take advantage of the first plan to be made for this group and see how costly it is for society if nothing is to be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for this. I'm glad to hear it. A senator has taken this matter up here, and I am glad that it shares that vision with those here regarding improving the standard of living and the quality of life of people with impaired ability. This includes some. that we increase the opportunity of people to have an active share in the community, including the workforce. People with limited ability can and should be part of an enterprise's human resources, as do other citizens of this country. We should not forget that people with impaired skills may be a very diverse group of people with knowledge and experience that are not more useful than we do. However, certain factors seem to prevent people with impaired ability to participate in a domestic labour market, whether in the general labour market or in the public market. In order to improve their understanding of the issues involved, the Ministry of Health cooperated with the Active, Rehabilitation Fund, Labour Services and the workforce of the workforce, study support and hindering factors about people's operating activities. The results of this study revealed that employers fear that people who do not have full performance are more likely than others to take advantage of their collective disease rights, which is then considered to be an increased financial risk for companies. There was also a lack of flexibility, especially in government officials and small work positions, both in finance and in planning hours. More important, even those who have limited their ability to work may feel responsible for the life of the individual. A respectable president. These results are somewhat tragic, but they also present a great challenge that we face as a community and change these attitudes. The Ministry is being examined for what kind of action can be taken to meet these challenges. More important, we find ways to encourage people to participate in a workforce. I really hope that I can introduce the ideas that are on the drawing table for the United States sooner than later, and I hope they will be discussed in the next few days in a group on a new social security forwarding system. In this case, the group in particular asks questions at any time. I've been a spokesman for the fact that there will be a bridge between education and employment for those who graduate from high school special ways and want to take their policies to the workforce. In this regard, there have already been discussions between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education. Again, I want to reiterate that this group is not uniform, and the individuals with different desires and needs, as it goes. Some seek to go to suitable places, others want to take further studies, and still others go straight to the labour market, with or without support. These groups have the same rights as others to seek the help of the labour oce for the job search, and I know that the Agency has emphasized the importance of giving this group a good service. A work agency even owned The initiative is to cooperate with high school in the work support program. The Agency's personnel have gone to school to educate prospective graduates on how they need to apply to the job search when they finish their studies and what support they can gain from the Agency in this regard. They are then encouraged to come to the Work Office at the end of school, after an incident with their parents, so that they can start their job search with them. Not many newly graduated students turned from special courses to the Agency in spring, likely because of other effective offer, but they increased by autumn. Then advice from the labour oce began immediately to help with the job search. However, it is clear that it will always take time to find suitable jobs, but jobs are viewed as a possibility of a future job. This task is in continuous development with the goal of providing this group of jobseekers as the best service. A respectable president. There is no doubt in my mind that it costs a lot of community if we do nothing to take away the obstacles facing people with limited skills at the doors of the workforce. We also need to be prepared to contribute something to improve the chances that long-term workers with less workers will start working and have an active share in the workforce. This results in a longer period of recovery. For example, a Danish survey shows that more than half of those with flexible jobs feel that they are better equipped to cope with their circumstances than before starting their jobs. We have work to do. To be successful, many people have to help. It is of utmost importance that the steps taken in these matters can be the key to political solidarity because I think that all of us can agree that here is an important task to discuss that is important to all of us. I want to finally thank you. A senator again for taking this matter up in question class.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u58	Mr. President. I would like to thank you very much for this discussion. It's a huge need. I also thank you for the points that came out, both in the whale. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir and the highest. Department of Social Affairs on already working things and the issues that have been checked. I would like to focus on the fact that each year a group of young people who have limited their ability to work after spending vast amounts of time and energy, both family and school, building these individuals up. This has done very well many times. They come filled with excitement from training in fields where there is great work, training to prepare for life, to learn money, to look forward to seeing their strengths and weaknesses, to know what they can and what they cannot do, only to run straight into a wall and get stuck there. It's nothing simple. There is nothing simple for us who have full ability to recover from such a shock. It's almost impossible for people with impaired skills and different disability to recover from such a shock. [[The president calls.]] And we may not be able to get those in the right direction now who have waited for one, two, and even three years after resorting. [[The president calls.]] So it's very important that we finish this. I'm glad they've been examined and analyzed. But I'll celebrate even more when we're introduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u59	Mr. President. In this discussion, I would like to bring the attention of a council and a nation in a council case that we have submitted to the legal agreement made by the United Nations on the rights of disabled people, now at the Senate Committee. I would like to use this opportunity to encourage a health committee to resolve the matter so that members of the Parliament can take their stand. Such legalization is of great material significance and is of great legal value to those who are desperate and disabled. The Supreme Court's recent judgment shows that there is a great need for legalization, but the Supreme Court twice said in this court that micromask could not be based on this agreement, such as a law in which it was not legalized but that it was only validated. If government fears the potential cost of legalization, I remind you that on the basis of the validation, we are going to fulfill the terms of the agreement anyway. Mr. President. Human rights may cost money, but as with the rest of the country, it is no longer necessary to give a discount of human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for this inquiry and the highest. Minister for the answer. We know of what is kind of sad, that there are people here who are working with the help that are losing their job and who are absolutely afraid of what will happen to them. There they have been told that they will not be able to continue working without support. It's probably only for two years, so it's broken. Then, too, we know of individuals who have tests and other tests, who have gone through everything, up to college. They report their disability, but they are not even interviewed. We also know that there is no part - time job. They need part-time jobs. For these individuals, there is no need for full - time work. Besides the fact that we never see a special announcement made by public institutions or rural groups that they have a part - time job for those who need it. [[The president calls.]] So somewhere a pot is broken. As I'm saying, you can't go to work assessment or anything until some of these things are clear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u61	Mr. President. I believe it is very important in our welfare community that all of them are allowed to enjoy their disabled, raped, and that a bridge is between high school and professional life, that they have a special career opportunity after schooling, such as their peers to get into their professional life. It has been neglected, has not been supported, and has stopped losing young people in their homes, which is very bad. Now in terms of collective agreements, much has been said about the effectiveness, quality of work, and the like. But then the job life and the public must also be ready to accept the people who want to participate in their jobs when they can. I believe that it is very important that state, rural society, employment life, and union unions come to some agreement in which both the public and the private sector are introduced to receive the group we also want to enjoy in the labour market but have limited working ability. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u62	A respectable president. There is a great need for discussion about employment income and employment opportunities for people with impaired skills. I am grateful to those who started it. I would like to direct it to those who will be involved in the discussion. Many have expressed motivation in their case. Does that mean counseling, supporting those who are unsure about bringing in people with impaired employment skills? Or are some of the financial motivations involved? I think it's important that we think about it. I'm very happy to hear it as the highest possible. Minister came in on the work started, but I think high school is in a key position regarding cooperation with the workplace. [[The president calls.]] I've seen such cooperation have good results. The more variety of workplaces, then, is a more interesting and improved work environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u63	V.E.G. President. Of course, the State should have a prenup to create an opportunity for people with limited ability to reach a labour market and be able to gain a full and happier life. There are various ways in which you can do this. This can be done in this way, e.g. that, in agreement with rural society, the state will decide that a certain number of jobs will in itself be set aside for people with impaired skills, creating opportunities to do so by increasing the number of part - time jobs. Of course, there is a state of great duty. The power of the Kingdom may come in other ways too. To stimulate the labour market, the general, e.g. confers on those who have a reduced ability to work like a lower insurance bill. It's all going to the highest range. Minister to act. This is what he can do. There's nothing to wait for him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u64	Mr. President. The opposite of uniqueness is polydiversity. We all want to live here in a wide variety of society. I believe it. If the system does not support the diversity we want it to change. I'm highlighting it. Society has not accepted what the situation today is. It's just the reality that we see. It really needs motivation. For example, we have enough tax incentives for foreign investments. We have enough investment incentives in various sectors. Why can such ways not be used to contribute to the quality of life for those who especially need our support? The work is not there, and something is wrong. I know that, for example. That there have been individuals, boys and girls, on the list of employment agencies, since about a year ago. I know that I'm trying to do my best, but I don't have the job. That's why it needs to be motivated. Meanwhile, our individuals, our friends, our children, are losing skills, loss of skills, joy - and then long - term ability. That is unacceptable in our modern society. Therefore, it is important that e.g. the public - these are the slow backwaters - set up a rule, a policy on part - time management, and the day - to - day work in public institutions and, in fact, in public institutions. State Department. It can be done. They just need to set those goals. Then, the other thing is to open it all up so that these actions will be performed. I believe that the first month of the Minister of Social Affairs today, and I intend to also call myself paediatric Minister, start a positive course, start well for children, and especially the disabled. I have faith that he will not remain empty, but will follow this plea from this chamber that something will be done in these matters. The words are good. But we now need action for these children, for those young people who need both the resources and the support of society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-12-30.u65	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I think she's been really good and I've been very happy with her. I'd like to start by coming in with it for a while. The saying of diversity and the failure of society: It's exactly what we feel everywhere that society has not accepted it. It takes a great change of mind, both in the community as a whole and in the sector, in the general sector and in the public sector. It is also true that such changes need to be motivated into the system. That is exactly what we need to consider: How can this be done? In what ways do we do this best? In what ways do we get the most results? Society is not a community unless all can participate. This is the community that we want to build; where everyone is involved, where everyone has their own place, where everyone is involved in turning the wheels of employment. That's extremely important. I want to reiterate that at that job, we need to look into how we build the gap between school and professional life. I hope that by the changes and jobs that we have in the process of working properly, and then the work that needs to be done at the same time before its induction - and I agree with it. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson in this regard - needs to be built up in such a way that both the public and the market produce produce a variety of jobs for this group. In this regard, we need to examine our motives, how we build them up. We certainly need a change of pace there, and I hope to have the council on that road because it takes time to bring that change of mind through and reach it fully. Thank you for the discussion. It is needed and important and reminds us that it is important every day.
