ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u1	Mr. President. We're here on three-year fishing fees. Most of the employment committees have a prior opinion, and it reads: After the second issue, the committee again discussed the matter. At a meeting in the Committee, Aron Baldursson from Iceland's Fish Market met, Daði Hjálmarsson from KG Fishing, Heiðrún Lind Marteinsdóttir, and Ægir Páll Friðbertsson, from Groups of Societys in the marine field, and Þorláksson. In the treatment of the case, general satisfaction with the modified methodology of fishing fees was found, that it will be based on information close to time, and that the government tax manager is the person who has access to data and/or authority to ask for relevant information. The commission also stated that in certain areas, the profits of marine export companies had been considerably added. The majority of the reviews are of the importance of the declaration agreed on at 2nd. ... aboutthefreebuymark. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Ásmundur Friðriksson was absent from the case, and he writes on this warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the committee, the publications of Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoff, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbeinn James Óttarsson Proppé, and Njáll Friðbertsson. As we have seen at 2 Thessalonians 2: 1, we have a detailed discussion of this matter. There have been 13 conferences on the job committee. Visitors, well over 100, have come, and many reports have been received, well over 50 reviews, and the subject has been thoroughly discussed. It went to the top office for a presentation. A seafaring minister who held meetings far and wide throughout the country. I think we've come to this place now that there's nothing left to wait for, for the year's hunting fees are running out, so it's urgent that there's a new law to take over. I believe that the methodology of these new laws is very good, and I think there is a reason to trace it in short terms. The current law bill suggests that the calculus of each year's fishing fee is based on the survival of the individual on each supply. It is suggested that the price rate of fishing on the calculus will be 33%, which is the same currency as in the current law. It is suggested that fishing be set at the end of each year for the next calendar year, rather than be set in August for the coming fishing year. Changes are made to simplify the management of a hunting fee, consisting of largely the work of the Fishing Committee, to the office of the governor of the tax, and also to a special Council Committee on Fishing Costs. The bill also suggests that the so-called holiday target will remain unchanged, i.e. It should be noted that each subject pays 20% of the first 4.5 million. K. and 15% of the next 4.5 million. K. As noted, 2nd round has been approved. the majority of these proposals will be the square end of the bill so that it will be 40% off the first 6 billion. K. of a fixed fishing fee, which works very well for smaller and medium-sized companies in the seas as well as for local and regional structures. The visitors who attended the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. After Deloitte's analysis of 61 projects in the country, 51% improved between the 2016/2017 fish fishing season, which means 27 billion, but there were different regional reductions over the amount of profits combined. For example, in Snæfellstown, 89% and 83% of Grindavík lost their profits together. However, in areas where water management was less likely, profits were combined in about 546,62%, i.e. ... inTheAustlandsandthe Westlands. Granted, it also involves a special tax discount that was canceled. Fishing costs, e.g. in Snæfellstown, the fishing season in 2016/2017 increased by 300% and 2017/018, respectively. During this period, they increased by 215% and the Orient by 76%. This is of interest to the discussion that has been made, and if the senators believe that fishing costs are meant to be off-limits and we're going to be involved in the change of an arrangement where the head of the government has a great authority's authority to work with the tax reports on the company's survival, then we'll have to look forward to making a lot of money in Iceland, and the price of fishing is very fluffy, and the price of fishing is due to the recovery that can be achieved in real time. I think that this bill will be achieved and that we as a people who want to receive a natural resource value from our common resource can be very comfortable with the methodology used in this bill to set up a future fishing fee and that we can get an increase in fishing costs from year to year. Depending on the fluctuation, we may have a reduction. We are taking special note of these small and medium-sized designs by pushing the cost line and the discount below that will be most useful to them. In the discussion, there has been a review of the cross-cutting process in which fishing costs are being taken off. Federal tax managers who appeared to the committee believe that the cross-defence legislation is in place, i.e. 57st. tax law, effort, and not need to change the need for the legislation on the cross - price, which certainly includes more economics than sea fishing, and that there is no need to strengthen that law specifically. But if it were to be done, according to the future experience that it had to be done, it would be done in laws other than those laws here. I think it's very important that this section is best handled by the government tax manager's office and that we have information from Fishing Office on the benefit of each species and the interests of the article presented in tax returns. Otherwise, I don't think there's any more to say about the matter, it's been discussed long and long, both outside and inside, in the Committee and here at the Senate Hall at 1st and 2rd. I suggest that the case be granted as soon as possible. This is urgent because the annual and future fishing legislation will be compared to the calendar year, not as it has been on September 1 to August 31, each year. For now, I'd like to be able to grasp this controversial issue, which has been very long in society, and that this methodology should be established, which I feel is the core of at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u2	Mr. President. Hv. A senator will be consulted about the position of small and medium-sized production in this context and the importance of increasing the discount to smaller designs. In fact, it is prominent in all logical reasoning that the reason why there is such a great need for action in a major political dispute here at the Senate Hall is very bad for this article. I'd like a year ago to answer the question. A candidate to ask: What data do the Commission have to do with the poorness of SMEs, that there are several ways in which the results of these enterprises are largely large? There has been a statement at a council hall, including the U.S. of the highest. Marine and agricultural minister, that the Ministry has no such evidence or analysis by hand, does not suggest that there is a size-related increase in the amount of land flows in the marine road. Here we are in a conference hall, with a matter more important than the need to give smaller companies a special discount because their position is in some way much worse than the position of other companies. I advertise such evidence because I have not seen any diagnostics like this. In a lawsuit here at the council, already at the highest level. A minister said to the bill itself, did he not seem to have such information, and in fact, it has been asserted repeatedly by specialists, to me that there are no significant differences between the survival of smaller companies and larger in this regard. Granted, there is considerable variability in enterprises, but it is not large.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u3	Mr. President. There are reports supporting the lack of SMEs. I presented Deloitte's earlier diagnosis to a variety of companies with very high profits. There is a report made available by a national organisation in the Westlands and by Western countries on the land supply of enterprises, which clearly shows that their recovery is very difficult and conditions are difficult to deal with. These data are official and can be studied. This was also shown in the review of the Based Agency, which has hit the pulse for these small and medium-sized enterprises. Based on a building agency, there is a special complaint for the fracture prevention and the visual space that meets agreements for fracture prevention and special settlements. It is made clear, in her review of the fishing costs, that these small and medium-sized enterprises are very difficult and different. So I believe we have enough information to build on and that this needs special action. I'm here with the assessment of fishing between 2016/2017 and 2017/018. In Isafjörður, the fishing fee has been found, e.g. increased between those years by 265%, in Bolungarvík about 223%, in the West, 212%, in the Trollusium by 136%, and so on. These are typical locations for small and medium-sized structures.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u4	Mr. President. This then appears to be data and information at the highest level. In the fall of the case, the minister of the sea and his ministry have not been under control. So when you stand here as a private senator, you wonder what you should trust in in this discussion. This is the first time I hear this mentioned in a discussion by the majority of the employment committees, that this is a problem in this article. The second has been repeated, including half the world's highest. Minister, that this is not a size-related problem, this certainly had different types of output to do, not size. This brings us to another thought. In support of what? A candidate is repeatedly referring to the worsening of the article, and this may be the underlying reason why this article is being covered. This has nothing to do with moving currency closer in time. This has all to do with the government's opinion that it is necessary to reduce fishing costs because of the worse results or worsening yields of this article. So you wonder a little. As we look at the first 11 months of this year, the export value of marine products has increased by 20%. It is not to see in the commercial trades of fishing companies, whether they have markets or property items in themselves, that there are no spaces or fears for the survival of this article. On the contrary, when this happens, we see business on previously unknown heights. As a result, you may think that this may have meant goods primarily by making sure that the article was for a six - week strike last year, and it may have had no wonder that it had some effect on the whole passage of the sea route. So maybe that's my question. Senator: Is it the government's job to cope with the loss of money because of a strike by attacking the decline of hunting fees?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u5	Mr. President. I reiterate that hunting costs are not being lowered. They're offering a case that goes on to extend actual fishing fees. Somewhere we have to pull that line. It's just that way. Thus, for the next year's provision, another methodology is used in which a fishing committee adjusts according to the survival of the last few years'fixed price for each species. Then this bill will be active in 2020, when the government tax manager can work with the information that the bill shows to be working on in order to extend the cost of hunting. Hv. The head of action must begin to recognize that this is being adjusted on the basis of its survival, and the contribution of the article is swinging. There is evidence that the survival of these SMEs has been difficult because of the very long, but not the real time, total recovery. Many of these enterprises will not tolerate a second year or so. It is only a fact that humans have to face. At the beginning of the discussion, I realized that I had a warning on this bill and that I wanted to have it checked specifically to try to meet the challenges of SMEs by strengthening the market. We called in the committee information from a variety of sources. These include the Deloitte report for the parts of the country I listed here, Western and Western, and more data have been added between 2 and 3. About Deloitte-exposed the company position and the review of the Agency. In addition, it might be concluded that the majority of the items suggested a suggestion to support the previously made vacation market. This, of course, is a very good thing to do so that we do not continue to experience many financial failures.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u6	Mr. President. This is where we stand to discuss hunting fees at the 3rd. I'm going to try to stay calm better than I did at the end of the 2nd. I'm celebrating the Supreme Being. Secretary of the sea, it's important that the Ministers follow up on their affairs and keep an eye on what's going on. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jr., said that there would be no need to have many words on the subject. A lot would have been discussed within and outside the council, had to be grasped, and the method to be settled. This case has been the issue of the nation for some 30 years, and I think, despite the good will of the government, we do not necessarily see land by doing so. Even if we can agree with it with what we have. Magnúsdóttir It's a good idea, in the bill where that threshold should be. In short, it is simply taken an average of 2009, saying that it is really the same as it is suggested today. But what upsets the image is that the first three years of that period were almost token fees on the article, and everyone who knows the percentages understand that it does not give an actual picture. The fact is, paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter supported the government in 2009-2013, which said that these criteria were to be 60%, but now there are 33%, and there is a considerable difference. Then I don't think that it's going to work out or wish or expect that there's some big deal here. Hv. A senator also speaks of the exacerbation rate and refers to Delotte's figures, which are the same company that calculates billions of losses due to macrotics, another matter. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson pointed out that last year there were strikes that undoubtedly had a profound effect on the article. Then let us not forget the fact that ten of the largest, I think, the construction companies in the country paid $23 billion, so they hardly had a particularly bad time. They could, at least, be companies. There is more subsidence for the use of limited resources into the eyes of the people at the same time that the government does not fully keep promises made at 1st. Funding and not meeting groups as the entire upcoming period, which is unprecedentedly far in the republican history, was actually given the rights that would have been expected and would have at least Can you believe that the left movement ◯ green supply would fight with a point and an egg for. It may now be that this conflict took place in the government room or in the Congress classes. But it is not visible here if we compare the fishing costs and look at sheep and changes, especially the budgets, which were controversial, because it must be acknowledged that much was added and that it could not be handled in the budget. It is odd that in the budget debate, money to the worst groups is drawn together at the same time that the project is protected entirely, regardless of whether the companies are in a bad place or well-being. I'll be the first to admit that there may be preparations in the country, whether it depends on it or by size or otherwise, I'm not arguing about what is more problematic, and something in the environment that makes it work. Or they may need to be protected because they can have a cultural role in the country as well as in the local community. Then let's go there and update them in some way to the situation in which they live, and we justify it by defending a interests that I think we all agree on. But I find it odd to take an amazing job in which there is an amazing difference between the worst drivers in the business and the best drivers in charge, in terms of the most difficult people, and allowing all the others there are above some line to walk out of this article with billions above billions of people. I'm asking, "What kind of profession is that in? " I myself have been working in the construction sector for 2,20,30 years. At times, you might have wished that such a building was such a fence that no business could just get into trouble. Well, it hasn't been like that. In the 2030 years, I have probably passed through three or four construction crises. That's what life is. But I just think that it is that a lot of these companies should be able to pay more. And because we're talking about this unsolved answer, the unsolved question in the bill about what the fee is supposed to be high, because this debate has actually not happened, but has just made some calculator formulas, I also wondered that with the bill it's really getting rid of companies by the end of 2015, which is one of the best year of later years's development. Why don't we extend this bill by a year like we did in the fall and get a little bit of money by 2015, which is even possible. to make money for expenses that we're going to be exposed to because of the mackerel spray? I think that would be an attempt. In these discussions, starting on the first day, the management parties have tried to defuse the discussion of fishing costs from the distribution process altogether. It is true that this was understood at the time. But I think that both the judgment and the discussion in society show that there's nothing possible, that's all hanging. It is even more strange when men have untimely sources that arise from hunting experience for three years, that the cost is being lowered, and that it is low. This should be much higher if a person has non - time sources and is able to assume them. If we took a contractor's company that had already built 30% of the official buildings over the last three to six years, would we think that in the future they would maintain 30% of what would be built, the Landspike, or a new National Theatre, or a cultural theater, or anything? This would be absurd for all, since, of course, the general rule is that if you are buying or sharing limited quality, you are looking for an offer. We have not, however, been included in this series of marketing proposals because we are realistic and realize that this is not a major part of it. Of course, that would be a far more reasonable way because we would be talking about survival, since good builders would likely offer in view of what they think they can do. Besides, we can also have obstacles or fences, as is true of all possible invitations to guard the viewpoints of smaller ones, those living in scattered areas or other places. In effect, it is being held out when it is claimed that it contains some insane megapolitism that will squeeze every fishing warrant on a few hands. It doesn't have to be this way. We have a law on how much money we can catch and hunt. We can also have rules about size and other things. Granted, it will provide a lower price for exile, but I think we all agree that the goal is not to take as much as possible because we want this article to be based on leadership and we want it to be operational. That's not what they're talking about. Yet, in many respects it is quite normal. And this is, as I read, and learned the little political science that I did in my high school and through reading newspapers, the red strand of ideologies as the highest. A sea chief minister, or his company, stands for it. I think this would be much better. I think it's also necessary to temporalize our sources. I think we see it on the judgment that fell that it is necessary, and it is also the most natural, because there may be a point of view, and there may be a situation where one wants to go another way. Then it's simply impossible for us to do so. Probably it would be best for us to negotiate a new constitution of resources, but our bitter experience in recent years shows that we will not be able to do anything in the near future despite our desire to do so. I realize that this bill will become a law. I understand that, and I've realized that in this room, there's more to it. Then it must be. I hope that a new proposal to extend this for one year is achieved because I think it's the most reasonable thing to do. I think it would be the article for the best, so a new government that has other ideas and people who can choose next and choose to build on other viewpoints doesn't have to look at the conclusion of a system, and we don't want to. We are ready to participate in such discussions in a consistent manner. We realized that we don't get everything. I'd like, for example, what. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, believe, would be a satisfying victory for the United States to succeed, even if only for the fishing season, as it appeared on the left-hand green page. [[Take it up: Just put it in the left.]] That would really be enough for me because the group has been talking to some of my opinions. The Party published on its website a completely contrary to what they're talking about in this council, and honestly, it would be to say: In the interest of bigger interests we feel that we are getting into this and this and this case, we're going to blunder and give in to it. It's a surprise. A senator is going to defend this whole thing by his mouth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u7	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. A senator was quite calm in his story, much better than the last time we discussed it. But I'd like to curious a little bit about the thought of making the change. Is it the thought of using the latest information on the cost of fishing and processing as the basis for the fishing fees, as the law determines, why? Senator? I expect him to hear what I'm saying. [[Up front.]] Isn't it the thought of going to eight? a valid law, which the proposal says will be extended or confirmed, that the latest information in the Habitat's report on fishing and processing will be used as a basis for the decision of hunting costs? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u8	Mr. President. In fact, I'm referring to the fact that the law as it is today remains unchanged for a year and is paying for it as it was 2015. I think it's really important for us to connect these issues again, try to settle for a brief distribution. You can then build on the bill of a former ocean leader, the highest. Secretary of transportation today. All classes, unless the Independence Party has arranged for it. I think it may also be discussed materially after one year, when we negotiate and then agree to a bill that will prove to be a real-time payment as discussed here, whether it should be 33% or 40% or 50%, or whatever. That discussion has not been conducted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u9	A respectable president. I don't think that discussion has been able to have enough place here in the Senate Hall because people have been preoccupied with mixing fish control songs and changing them into discussions about changes in fishing fees. But if I've understood what. A senator's right to recommend that instead of two or three years of years of information to the foundation of a hunting fee, the next year's fishing fee will be set on the basis of three or four years of old information. We're just supposed to let the article handle it longer. Section 8. The Council on Fishing, which is here proposed to be extended, states that Iceland's Habitat gathers information on the benefits of fishing and processing. She proposes that the latest report should be used to pay the fishing fees. This is a simple question: Should not this report be used for stress and for the basis of the pressures of the 2019 fishing fees?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u10	Mr. President. I'm not gonna answer this any other way than the law's gonna be the same for a year. There are very simple reasons why this issue was not really discussed with us about where the price should be due because of the whole of 2. were directors, and thus were the highest. A far more busy seafarer in finding ways to misstep the laws of government opposition. And when my blood pressure was as high as we could say. It was simply because while I was trying to answer them, the highest was the case. A minister here and a gas puffer in the back of the cameras so he couldn't be seen, and was always asking questions about our suggestions. He did not seem to have the slightest interest in talking about his own.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. It gives you a little thought in this matter that it speaks of the importance of reconciliation and stability in this fundamental aspect of the nation's work, its living in a predictable, stable environment, and thus a curative environment. Hv. A senator and director of the trade committee spoke here of hoping that the arrangements here will likely be set aside. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who is at the same time president of the United States: well known. A member of Congress that had some consultation with him in preparing this matter at the time, or that the administrative point has shown the smallest effort to seek some cross - political agreement on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u12	Mr. President. No, no, no. paritaprevir Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, I don't know what it is. I remember, though, that the highest. A seafaring minister called me on the lead that he was going to get an approved bill in spring that the government was brought back because of the nation's opposition, but since then there have been no conversations. Of course, it is true that the matter has actually been discussed in the committee, and many members have been there. And in most cases, it was now known as to what most sources would say about this old citizen of the generals of fish management and fishing costs. But a small effort was not made between government and government opposition to try to find some surface, such as former marine emissary, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, tried to appoint a cross-cutting group. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, though, she could not continue because the government exploded.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, I don't know what's going on. I mean, I'm not sure they're looking for us. The director of the professional road committee speaks of the very extensive consultation and positive comments in the case. I'm not surprised. It seems to me that each of the country's companies has turned in an independent review of the case, and that there is a greater part of a positive report that may not be surprising, given the nature and content of this bill. But you are sure to be disappointed that they will not even take it seriously, not taking the initiative to try to get some cross - political agreement, since this government has preached other things and has changed the practice. Sadly, though, she does not here demonstrate this in a case that has become so urgent. A government government that now supports 40% of the nation and is rapidly decreasing according to polls may bear in mind that this time it was worth trying but that it does not seem to happen this time as it does the others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u14	Mr. President. Yes, I agree. In the government contract, you will forgive me, even though I do not know the right of words - that in all matters of a longer future, in all systems, there is nothing more to do than work on a very broad agreement. That's why there's been quite a flash in the Constitution, that there's nothing to drive a case through, that must be achieved as a broader reconciliation. Tax cases have been mentioned by the highest power. The prime minister, who has such a situation, is sure to be able to do so. But surely fishing is such a matter. A case that is enormously high in Iceland, one of the national basics, and the source of income that, unfortunately, goes on too small to the public, more to the human race.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u15	Mr. President. It was shown in the matter of what. A senator said that there had been no consultation with my representative in this matter. Now that we've been doing this work on a professional committee for more than two months, we've talked about it in a material way. It is known that representatives of the memory of the part, of cohesion, restoration and Pirata have made no material proposal or discussed the changes they want to see on the bill. There was a modification proposal at 2nd. After the case was left by the Committee, who was revolutionized in the fishing system, which is not here for discussion, but materially have representatives of the employment committee, the House of Congress. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, no proposed proposal on the committee to discuss some material change in the bill. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: How many years should it be taken to draw conclusions from the United States on what changes it wants to make on this bill? What are some of the material views? Senator on the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u16	Mr. President. I think it's quite ready to take a few years, even a year, to make peace with the system. But she will never get caught if it's always done by the old method, that it's just coming up for a bill, and it's being discussed. And even if they call in reporters and they get some opinions on the committee, nothing is done to try to work out any harmony before the bill comes out. I talked earlier about a cross-cutting group of cross-cutting talks. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, founded when she was a minister. I think that would have been the right way. So while some people would argue that this group had been exploded before the government exploded, that is not true. There was a materially good conversation. In fact, people were getting a little carried away with certain important factors. [[The president calls.]] I think the highest. A seaman minister would be pleased to reorganize that group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u17	Mr. President. It's interesting to hear what's wrong. A senator has great confidence in what to do. Councilmen around the block. You can see what the mind is looking for in that matter. Does that make sense to you, then, that there is a material weakness? Councilmen in the United States have nothing to do with this bill? It is only a good health test for this matter that no material point can be made that might be made differently in the bill. You're totally blundering about that discussion and pointing forward to the future. We can't wait forever. Hv. A senator said that there was a compromise between the worst driver and the best driver in the business and that there were good producers and other things. I'd like to hear from you. A senator who is a good developer and who is bad. Has a what? A senator will not be concerned about the great effort that has been made in the fishing industry in recent years? During the past 12 years, compression has become 60%. [[The president calls.]] In the past four years, compression has become 25% in the hook-up system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u18	Mr. President. It's simply wrong. A senator that I talked about good and bad replacements. I was talking about a projection that was in a worse business situation. It may be external situations that have nothing to do with the ability of individual developers. It may also be that some are good and others are bad, as in all occupations. This is the case with any professional issue. No, I don't think that an endless compression is of the good, so we have many tools to cope with it, including the results. To establish laws on the personal property of people in this article. I'm sure you will. There isn't any publicity there, and we're ready to criticize it, for example. Yeah. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who may have been very strong down the slope, began to roll from the 60% target to 33%, like the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u19	A respectable president. I was going to talk about everything else, but this admiration and adoration. A senator on the NTSB Committee. I'm amazed by the government and the descriptions of it. The senator says that it was only very successful on that committee, and the people were quite ambiguously inconsistency with an article as the current highest level. Health Minister, Sakhis Svavarsdóttir, wrote September 1st of last year in the reactor, then an agent of the left-green in this reconciliation committee. I'd like to ask you what. A senator knows if he is not familiar with the criticism. Svavarsdóttir The Swavarsdóttirs of the committee, which started kicking in the left green, and applying for the head of the Committee, say they were completely paralyzed. Hv. paritaprevir The Svandís of Svavarsdóttir wrote specifically about this. Then she wrote another article on September 1, just before the government, as a matter of course. This is how a senator will miss if his case is understood, fell, as she reviews the proposal for a representative of the Reconnaissance. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson Fridik's case, is that there is no discussion of national property on the resource, but it is based on the approach of contracts between the structure and the state on a exclusive foundation. [[The president calls.]] Is this the peace of your heart? Is that what a senator misses?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u20	Mr. President. It's not right. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Mr. Ottar's son Proppér, is that I am specifically indicting the former government, but I cannot see that this is all the difference, unless this one may be less involved in climates. I read this article. A member of the council, the Svandís of Svavarsdóttir, and I can't figure out what. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé is referring to the fact that they had been kicked into the parish Party and the left green at that job. As I had this experience, the biggest time to process data and try to find some basis, find a common surface, and if something is, I might have preferred to represent the Independence Party. paritaprevir The Svavarsdóttir would be more like this. However, she spoke of the fact that perhaps we should first overcome and base changes in the constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u21	A respectable president. So I'll witness in the first of two branches. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, she describes how the chairman of that committee, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson, began his work by blaming the memory that the majority of the items cannot agree on major issues: ▪ It was impossible to answer this article, since it Þorsteinn that the Chairman was trying to frame the blame on other categories of what was predictable, or that the committee's work would not bring back. It was, a respectable president, the spirit in that committee as a basis. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson, who certainly did not sit on the committee, suggests that my own intelligence was distorted by talking about the fact that it was really going well. There are documented examples of a man down. Not only did a member of the committee write two articles specifically on this matter, and it came to the conclusion that the committee was not to be returned. Yes, I'm sure they shot a representative. Independence party, too. A senator's right. But I think it's a very distorted image. A senator gives of events that are not longer than one year ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u22	Mr. President. Yes, it is true that the chairman of the Committee, Þorsteinn Church of Pálsson, wrote an article referring to the lesser part. I did not take that to heart, but perhaps it is proved in this matter that the truth becomes as angry as it is and that some have been moved to write an article. But one committee's opinion, even though the member of the committee writes two, even three, no more scientific authority on the work of the committee than is actually the position of others on the committee. I'm here simply describing my experiences. And what? Svandís Svavarsdóttir, this time the highest. A health minister, was an extremely good participants in the work of this committee, and it was not even placed on the table that could be a stumbling block to her. She generally agreed with us, however, a representative of the Independence Party always held up opinions at each meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u23	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize hunting costs. The matter has long been under discussion here and has been given quite a few discussions in the handling of the council this fall. I often like it when it comes to this sort of thing, to back it up a little bit: What is it really about? Over the years, in a discussion of fishing costs, the matter has been implicated in my mind by an excessive amount of activity. The population's fair share is spoken of as being a resource, and then it takes long to learn how well it is a resource and how it differs from another planet, etc. I think it's in simple terms this way: it's a raw price. We all agree that we have a fishing system based on the nation's share of the resource, that all of us have the fish in the sea together, and then we share fishing clearances or fishing clearances to use this common resource of ours, and for those sources, it should pay a fair price. So this is because of the raw content charge and only puts it in the context of the exporting of marine products in recent years there has been a total of 200◯240 billion dollars. every year. We're here talking about the raw price for this common resource of ours, which results in the total amount of 200 to 240 billion a year, over about a year. Seven billion. There are 3% of the seafood value for export. That's what makes it seem that this resource is way too high for access to this resource, for being able to eventually create these assets. It may be helpful to remember that no industry, at least no business in private business, has access to free raw materials to create valuables. They don't know each other. It is good to remember that it is very common to see the raw cost, the raw content ratio, of a total of 20◯30%. In this context, there are about 3% of those that are probably not very high unless they are not very high. It is remarkable to see right men who should agree with some kind of marketing arrangement in all of this become shocked when discussing the marketing arrangements for this introduction. Would we really think of having this arrangement for some other business? Let's think about it. If we were talking about the use of metals from the ground, would we ever think of access, should it be almost free of charge, that the raw content for the article, that it would be simply a delight to bring gold or other metals into markets, worth not in the raw itself? No, I don't think so. In fact, we threw ourselves on the possibility of using oil resources in Icelandic jurisdiction. There we took up, not the arrangement set aside, but the simple arrangement of offering new contracts, normally. I often thought about this in other professional matters too. That was, for example, one. The construction industry used virtually nothing to produce construction materials. There was plenty of them, given almost free of charge, paid repair fees. Then we find ourselves in an organization, and what do we do about it? Of course, we'll go out and take these lands out to the highest bidders. We did not go to history's building experience or distributed forever the limited property the building blocks had become based on traditional experience. In fact, the price of fishing costs is greatly increased by groups that endorse marketing solutions when it comes to laying prices. It is not a great belief in the market economy of these groups when they do not trust in the market to achieve such a simple object as access to a limited resource, not to trust the marine outlets themselves to set out the budget that the article is prepared to pay for this market access. That's it. In simple terms, access to the resource is being made available. The raw materials that we all agree on are being readily accessed and clearly stated in the laws on the control of fish, that it is the partner of the nation, and that it should be given a reasonable and normal price for. I don't have the belief that this government seems to have, that sea fish are almost worthless, of no value, and that there is a risk of mass failure taking place in a sector intended to offer this or what it is to pay more than 3% of the market value of the same catch. That's what I'm most shocked at in this discussion. I kind of have to say, as it is, when you listen to the language of the greater part, I feel like you're trying to make a fool of yourself. People are being deliberately deceived by the reasoning given here on why is it so urgent to resolve this matter now, whatever it is that is so dangerous to the deportation in this country, if we don't take immediate action and reduce these fishing costs. Let's be clear about that, that's the main end of these changes, that's why the more part is so motivated by running this case through in a nonsense political dispute, that it's time to pay the fees of a very good year, that it benefited in the form of a high price and a favorable score, but now it doesn't want to pay for this favorable year's fee but certainly enjoyed a return. If we look at the two points that have been most common in this discussion, then we will not be told, on the other hand, that we are told, changing the calculations of the fishing fees that had become undiscovered about 1,912 billion. Second, the results of small and medium-sized designs are much worse than larger productions and therefore require a special reduction in the type of development. There's a lot to say about this, but it's good to remember that the value of seafood this year has greatly increased. The value of the first 11 months is 20% higher than that at the same time in the previous year, indicating that less than the water supply in the last year, compared to 2016 or 2015, for example, is mainly due to long-term seawater strike at the beginning of the last year. Little wonder that the outcome of this article was regretful of a long seafaring incident. However, it is not the nation's role to take on that cost in the form of lower fishing costs, for I would expect that the value of the individual fishing warrants has not changed much, despite that strike. The value of the products may not have taken a major blow, and this year we see a 20% rise in the value of seafood from year to year as well as in progress in the latter part of the year, which explains why we have a 20% increase in the value of marine products. There'll be something so empty nonsense, I'd like to say, when it's about to be adrift over the fact that the project will not be able to pay in the next year because the year 2016 was so bad. I can assure you of that, if you don't think you've had any experience with it, that it will pay very much for its accounts by the age of two. Of course, it is the product of this year and the next year that is responsible for the payment of the work being done here, not the result of 2017. It is a ridiculous excuse to plan to use the delivery of 2017 to cause the changes mentioned here in a blundering political dispute. With regard to the second point, about the survival of SMEs, we have listened to the highest levels. In this hearing there is no evidence in the Ministry to indicate that there is a size-related problem. While he may be dependent on certain types of development, he may be dependent on parts of the country, but there are simply a number of examples of small enterprises, just as much as large, which are highly acceptable or better off. There is no reason to believe that this is a huge problem. I therefore feel that it cannot be said otherwise than that it is being lied to a person when these arguments are suggested here that we have a profession in need, which must respond quickly to the bill, when the next year of 2018, when this fishing fee comes for payment. Consider other examples of the same. Let us see how the article itself appreciates its prospects. I can mention three examples, buy fishing companies in other fishing companies, for this year's fifth tens of billions of dollars. It is primarily a well-deserved price for the company's fishing rights. It does not reflect a lack of faith in the prospects set out in this article that this article attacks such extensive investments in itself. I can't see how to stress bad prospects for Brim to charge the HB Granda, that in Skavetirs are prepared to buy a third part at the Reconnaissance Station at another tens of billions or so. Also, I cannot see that it reflects atheism on the prospect of this article that the article itself invests over 60 billion over the past year. Besides, I can't see that it reflects the bad results of the story. Now I hear a lot of hoo-hoo-hoo, but the fact is that the fishing road has been investing in its regulars, reinvented tugs, manufacturing devices, and so on. All of this seems to me to reflect the very faith of the article itself on good soil and long - term prospects. A company doesn't invest in its own industry by making so much of it but believe in what lies ahead, and it's obvious, when we look at the seabed, that there is a wide range of sound faith on the screens and grounds of the article as we look forward to the future. All this reasoning that the article does not handle fair and normal fishing fees - I can't give much for that kind of presentation. The fact is, in the end, that at the same time as the government groups put so much emphasis on lowering the fishing fees, it was not possible to secure pensioners and microchip gains next year. A nurse's construction plan had to be cut down, and it could not be supported by a nursing home. Psychological services could not be handled under health insurance. It was not possible to ensure S.A.D. enough management funds. Hospitals in the country could not be financed in an adequate way. A cent could not be decommissioned in response to a dollar reduction in micropigs. This case is simply the most clear image of the priorities of this government, Madam President. It's just not better than this. That's what these government groups here are trying to cover up, that there's special interest here, not public interest. That's why these government groups are so busy finishing this case. Therefore, it was not time to try to achieve some cross-cutting agreement and cooperation in a future set of payments for this common resource of the nation. That is why we in the smaller part of the world suggest that we take simply longer time, that we try and even attempt to reach a parapolitic agreement on the best way in which this wage is due in the long term, and that we delay this nonsense for at least one year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before and is, at least, as I noticed, agrees with what was presented there. However, I would like to learn a little more about what to say, such a long - range view. A senator and perhaps his fine party about how to arrange a payment for this future resource. The discussion often distinguishes the fish from the fish in the sea, especially when people start talking about property rights and such things as taxes or taxes. To my company's policy and, at least, at least... I know, I know, the policy is to offer up relics every year to those who want to use them every year, and those who intend to catch fish may be offered at that level, and thus the State would receive in their share what the market decided themselves to receive. When we talk about marketing, it's really the way people mean it. I'm not aware of any other avenues called marketing, at least in any general sense, when we are considering the vision here. That's why I want to have a slightly clearer view from my head. A senator as to how the long - term arrangement is under consideration. A senator and his great party. There is, in fact, something else I would like to ask. There's a senator in there, and that's about the deed. I've seen it appear to be what has actually come to be the biggest success in Icelandic discussion of this matter at the time, not in itself that the catch has to be limited, though it has been debated in its own time, it's the free exodus that cares for people. I wonder if it is. A senator believes that this is because at that time some people have made a tremendous amount of money on what the public, or many, feels that they were not entitled to or that they are a system defect in an arrangement that would have to be eliminated. [[The president calls.]] Because I think it would be necessary to go along with this market route that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that when we share limited quality, and especially when it comes to some sort of natural resource rights, we want to control how new they are. We want, for example. Controls the total resources here, the use of geothermals or waterfalls, or something like that. And then it is only natural to make long - term contracts to ensure forethought, and that is what has been repeatedly resolved by most committees that have discussed this, such as. resource committee at its time. In the field of consultation, a similar scheme was also developed, simply to become long - term contracts, nevertheless offered. That would be, for example. can be used to have 201⁄225 - year - old contracts on the fishing grounds, which would then be offered in a relative proportion each year, 4◯5% a year, and sold to the highest bidder. Thus, the Kingdom ensured itself and thereby itself and the nation a fair share in the success of the article. I think this could make more peace with the exposition, which is a very important aspect of the fishing business, that there is a free expedite, and that this article can be promoted to a greater advantage. Of course, it is worth considering, too, that this enormous price at the markets reflects that there may not be a lot of currency on the part of the nation in this. If the fishing fees were higher, it would probably be a bit less important. This, of course, goes hand in hand. I think it might be a lot more comfortable about the fishing system we have, which has many very good and important advantages, including the exorbitant, if it was handled in any natural way and people would have the conviction that it was a fair price to pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u26	A respectable president. I, like many in my fine category, have at times wondered what people mean when they talk about peace. I think we're right next to what's going on. A senator that there would be more peace in the community about all this, and it seems to me that this is due to two reasons, as I mentioned. That is what people experience as an injustice that occurred at a time when the fishermen received a greeting that could then be sold out. At that time, of course, in the sense of the market, great profits were made, in fact, new things were made. It'll be worth something. When it could be sold, it can be said with such a definite simplicity that money has been made, distributed, and distributed, since the plague is an overwhelming controversy and bitterness exists in the community, at least. in that discussion I have shared. There's only one amongst these things, because they're now told that most of them are members or 90s and some percent, I don't know how good the number is, but I'm told that over 90% already sold them and now only lives somewhere else or somewhere else in the sun and enjoys it. Therefore, it is not possible to change the system to those who have bought thetan from that source. But this is one of the party. That's one of my chickens, just like I say. Then, what is the systematic injustice in the system as it is today? I've wondered that when we're designing solutions around fishing, whatever the present might be, if people are trying to correct something that will happen in the past that will not be corrected or if it's merely looking for the future, and considering how a system can be in the future in the light of those who come, for example. New into the market. [[The president calls.]] In particular, I wondered if such a marketing transition would make it harder for new people to get into the market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u27	President. There are many interesting questions. Senator, I hope he forgives me that I may not be able to go through all of this in a complete way. I think the problem of this system may be in that no one at all was concerned with the value in the fishing warrants, in the quatane itself, when the system was launched off the deck at its time. And so since then, after it became clear that there was a great deal of value in it, people have been reluctant to try to make some normal changes in it. I always think it's just as funny to listen to groups that speak for market solutions, say they're market-interest groups, cross-sections completely for using some market route in this area. Even so, those of the same classes have never been able to live up to their failings. The market is fine as long as they get to decide where it goes or how it's controlled. Of course, they do not trust the market to make their decision - only when it comes to selling banks or the good 50-50 bill, as they were comfortable. Of course, they did not trust the market to make that decision; they needed to determine where all of these would go. The present fishing system is well known for its failure. Of course, when it comes to innovation in such a trade, it is always such that a dominant firm, in any trade, is a better place than those who are trying to get new into the market. Especially in such a high-priced industry as a fishing road. Interestingly, though, it is not possible to see that there are directly new members on the scene. I simply can't remember a single example in the face, since some new person really got to his feet in a fishing road. We can see this fully in other articles, and this can be at high cost. We'll see WOW on the flight, despite the strong position of Ictellands. We've seen new parties rush to bed at a small sales market, e.g. ... ata grocery store. True, it is difficult, and a dominant person always has a strong position. But by offering out the fishing warrants, I think it would certainly improve the possibility of new parties coming into the industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u28	Madam President. We're here in the last discussion of a hunting fee bill. I've said a lot about this bill and my opinion about it. In this first talk of my life in the 3rd. I'd like to focus on things I haven't had explained in this discussion and what it was like to prepare this case, but neither in the position of the administration nor in the seemingly more parties in the preparation of the case, although it certainly went through my committee, the employment committee, in the process there. What's breaking into me and what I've just missed so far and haven't found justification for so far is why you're taking the processing team out of account at hunting fees. I have not seen any satisfying explanation for why it was necessary. All I've seen is criticism of this arrangement because it creates a back door or an incentive for an integrated industry, fishing and processing, in order to bring the profits of fishing into the process, and thus to get rid of some amount of money that would otherwise be calculated. It may also reduce pay to sailors, reduce pay costs to sailors. This is something I know many sailors are worried about. The bill's report claims that the viewpoint of key stakeholders and employees was known at the time of this bill. I wondered if it applies to the part of taking the processing out of this package. At least this has not been shown to indicate that there have been a demand, tell the sailors, to accept the processing process. The only explanation I've ever seen of this change is some kind of pink laundry, reference to women working in the agricultural industry, and therefore taking it out is a very good change, though I can't see it holding anything water. The reason I don't think it's gonna hold water is because I read a fine article after a man named Þorláksson H.. There's an excellent explanation that I think is going to make this case, the intermediate, a much better understanding than I can possibly understand. As to this, the Indriði son of H. Þorláksson wrote about the other day's fishing fees, with the permission of a president: ▪ Achieving all the fish in the country is owned by industry, or vice versa, or fishing, and is owned by the same source. Much of Iceland's commercial buyers of Icelandic fish products are owned by fishherders. The partnership makes it possible to move the slides from the fishing to the processing or the retailing of the linked parties. Without property connections and competition for fish products, there would be no fishing stakes in the processing or purchases of the products. Thus, the assessment of fish totals cannot be based solely on the fishing process, and the need to evaluate the whole fishing and processing is to be made. The 2012 Law provided a similar assessment of the process of fishing. From the total non-party income, costs, including budgets, were withdrawn in fishing and processing. Because of its origin in hunting, all rentan was balanced to the level of resources. Then there are things that I think are most important, by permission of the President: ▪ Some who did not understand or did not want to understand this method reasoned that it was thus laying a fishing fee on the job that is wrong. No company that had only income from the process but not the fishing paid for it. This is the bill, and rentan is largely calculated from the fishing process. This ignores the expected processing or sale between linked parties as lower than normal and uncalculated catchers. Fish prices are often considered to be at least 20% below the market price for bottom-fishing and that the difference is even greater for updating resources. The introduction of intermediate prices is recognized in the bill and tried to correct it by calculating 10% of pressures on the sliding seawater species. This correction, then, is incomplete. It is not a good practice to overlook the obvious facts that are of great importance and not to use available means of accepting them. This ignores a portion of the resource that the nation has the right to use and brings blessings to questionable behavior, although legal. Illumination is already available for the undercalculation of the price of intermediate prices, including due to the connection between seamen's salary and price prices, but may also be available for tax reasons, etc. By allowing the wrong interaction to also affect hunting costs, this trigger becomes stronger than ever. Hence, not only taking away the fish farms and markets in fishing bills will not only rob the nation of the resource but also push down fish prices and thus reduce the share of sailors and independent outputs that depend on the sale of products to their rivals. So many were words. It's something I've had a little doubt about. Why is this change being made, especially in view of its opening of this back door? It seems, at least as the situation is now, that there are no tools that can fully guarantee that it will not be this way with integrated output. Hv. The head of a professional car committee, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, asked me in an answer that I never got properly at 2nd. This case, if I don't trust the governor of state to follow through on this. Whether I trust that good organization to make sure it's done. Because I didn't answer her for that time, I'm going to let me answer her this time. Of course, I trusted the district attorney to do only very well his work. This is an excellent facility, and I think she can do a great job. However, I must ask myself when the following comments from the governor's Office, with the permission of a president: ▪ The decision on fish prices between production and fish production in the same company can lead to questions about the right price to match the standards of the so - called cover. The government taxpayer's options should correct the value according to the RSK229 spending form a limited list, in which cases involving the cover-up are generally time-consuming and careful implementation and may require a high level of information. In 2018, the eviction work ended at the end of September. Much of the tax payer's tax returns from May to early September. According to the bill, the governor of the tax shall make a suggestion for the sum of the cost of any useful product for the year to come for the minister of the sea espionage no later than December 1 of each year. Thus, it is clear that the main part of the work to the core calculation of hunting fees needs to be done before the pressures of law enforcement, i.e. from May until the beginning of September, where the government tax manager will have a very limited chance of making changes in the internal reports after the stress. There is limited potential in mechanical comparison between the annual accounts of a group involved in the combined value of resource use according to the form of waste, where the company's income is not specifically set in the company's tax returns [...]. Much of the time frame used for this work is set, the nature of it. It shows that setting this up can be both costly and time - consuming. There is only a limited time to do this, and this requires a lot of information and work and should take place within a short period of time that the governor has before going to his biggest job. The government tax manager, as far as I understood a conversation with the representative of the fine institution, which I repeat, that I trust fully in doing my job well, could not tell if it was possible to guarantee that there would not be any compromise, i.e. that this would not be a common means of shooting money off the cost of fishing. I felt that way, and I still feel that it is the biggest unexplained case. Why is this passage gone? I have no logical explanation why this was necessary. I can only see that there are no reasons for this change in a bill with the bill, except in the sense that the bill authors feel that they are in some equal child in this case that I have not yet received to explain exactly how it works, especially when the Þorláksson Son's explanation is being read. Fishing costs have never been submitted. To discuss it in an adulation with a fishing bill that reduces the impact of the bill on women who work in fish farming, and no water. It's the projection that pays this price for the use of valuable things, and it's probably not related to these fish workers. However, this change will potentially have a significant impact on the salary of sailors. I haven't seen anything about it standing to make sure it doesn't, i.e. that this will not be used to reduce the salary of sailors. I don't feel that this part of the matter has been discussed with sailors, at least I haven't observed it somewhere, although in the bill with the bill it is said that the attitude of all the people who have something to do with the seaside of the sea has been made known to this bill and therefore had no reason to speak to particularly many of the preparations of this bill, at least not to us in the administrative position, and therefore not at least. All sailors who had something to say about the bill when it was turned into a political treatment. The problem with constantly referring to the fact that action has been made by Congress, so it is not relevant that the bill has not taken part in the consultation puzzle, of course, that it can be arranged much earlier. In this case, the report is for example. not so much as it is after the matter has been submitted to the council. And it's a natural principle of the bill itself. It always locks up a little bit. Although the bill can be changed in one way or another, the report is very important too. If it remains unchanged, it will also discourage you from changing any of the konsical objects to the bill, such as the process of processing. I don't think that's ever been an option to change that. It had been decided without consulting anyone or just some chosen man we don't know about. It's still in me, after 1st, 2nd and now 3rd. this case. I don't understand why this had to be the landing. That is not explained in the report. There's no meaningful explanation for this except for some pink laundry that I'm not paying attention to, and I don't think he's right. This may have been the reason why it would have been important for us to start much earlier, and this is also the reason why we should set aside the same arrangement so that we can make sure that, first of all, it will be easy to follow legitimate fishing fees, easy to make sure that it is, and difficult to cheat the system. Besides everything else that has been discussed in this matter, I wanted to use my first talk in Leviticus. to discuss these back doors and the complete lack of answers and explanations of why this route was selected. All I see is her flaws and no options. I wish someone from the greater part would come up here and explain it to me just so we can all be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u29	V.E.G. President. We'll now discuss the fishing bill for the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers, which has been set up on the 3rd. The subject has been given quite a few discussions during the early stages, and I'm going to cut a few points. I've told you before that the bill is a step in the right direction, because the calculation has been moved into time and has reached the head of state tax. That's when the fish industry is taken out of parentheses. In turn, more than a part of the employment committee, which came in votes after 2nd. said to use stocks with less value than 100 billion. K. In a year on the average of the three - year - olds, the root of a fishing fee is not made up of them. The thought behind this is valid, and it is designed to make the extra species, or so - called elements, more so than in the past few years. In this case, fishing costs from these species have been too high for kilograms from seawater. This could have gone further in my opinion, even over 150 million, in order for more extra species to be pennished. Then ousting would decrease, and value would increase. The fact is, a lot of the low prices and high - price fishing costs don't return to land, and you can just imagine being thrown back into the sea. Later on in the conversion proposal: During the pressures of hunting fees, there should be a minimum of 40% of the first 6 billion. K. each year's stress for each currency. All right, this is an increase in discounts, this is a step in the right direction, but it will never exceed 2.4 million. This will be useful for small boats, e.g. in coastal fishing, and in other types of fishing, just above. The average projection remains in the ground, with 2.4 million not much, and it does not cover much of the size of the developing population. The question is, What is the medium of making? We could be talking about making a lot of money from 200 tons to about 5,000 tons. Many constructions in the country are present, and they are confined to the local community, creating many jobs, and making most of the money. In my committee, or 1st small part of the employment committee, to the 2nd. I think that the remuneration should be further connected to recovery so that a step-by-step discount will be provided which would benefit more groups. Each group has its own unique position and is very complex and perhaps unfair to reach one conclusion, i.e. to one number for each species of fish, as the bill is available in patches, as it were. In the 5th. the bill is a requirement to reduce the price of the cryoships by 1/10, by about 10%, by means of subsidies or unscrupulous gains, but should be raised by the registered market value of herring, hairy, coal, and macroil by 1/10, or 10%. On these patches, as I allow myself to call it, however, it shall be noted that we are formed, as someone said, such a set of buttons to be equal between the seawater and bottom fish companies. The price for 2017/018 paid the up-to-date companies 29%, while bottom fish companies 71% of the total price, which is a significant difference, but in the new budget, the surface companies will be in 44% with bottomfish companies, with 56%. So, as soon as this change occurs, there will be a marked equation between these companies, up-to-date organisations, and the co-couple fish industry, which are often the same types of companies in the largest fishing categories, and over the years it has been that this difference has often been that the large production is equal between these species, the living resources, and bottom fish species. It has been thought that only bottomfish have been made to feel that they have more taxed, as I previously mentioned in the talk. This shows that this balances the difference between enterprises and is a step in the right direction. As previously noted, the rate of decommissions that affect small boats and deforestation is one of the results. At Snæfells and West Fjords, the cost of hunting was 74% of profit last year. In Grindasvík, about 82% were fished for profit, 35% were in the West, and 19% were in the East. In the last two areas that pay lower fishing costs than the above, there are up - to - date companies that explain lower profits. During the past few years, there has been a short period between election election election election election elections and has been, but not much of a talk about infrastructure. And when asked how to finance the huge increase needed, the answer is often: Well, with higher resource costs, of course. So I'd like to make a court case and remind you of a synonym that I proposed in the fall, which was 55th case, about the definition of resources, and then 35 cases, of resource expenditures. Seafood is less than one industry that uses the resources of the country, but it is the only commercial means to pay for that special tax. So it must be fair and justifiable that a general resource policy will be developed and how to use it. The fact that one industry has a special tax system for resource use is an example of the discrimination between sectors. It has long been hoped that the resources of the country will bring financial gain in one way or another. Over the years, government companies have paid interest in government funds, such as land activation. Resources commonly referred to as national resources can come from various sources. There are resources in the sea, in the air, or on land. And because there has been a review of reconciliation, making peace, and talking about reconciliation, we must get closer to the reconciliation if the resources that would be able to get an analysis of national property and provide financial gain to the nation, we could rest the argument about the marine resources, at any rate, on a higher scale than we've had in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk, but he has some questions about it. A senator said. Right away. A senator says that it is a step in the right direction, so I wonder: " Toward what? Is that a factor to go to 60%, if the discount were 80%, would we have reached our destination? Or what is that right direction? Hv. A senator also mentioned the level of resource expenditure as a percentage of interest in each area, but in no case, it was burdensome that the fishing fees eaten up all the profits. Is it not, in fact, better to make a profit than not to make a profit? It is what we have experienced with this fishing system over the last few decades that various communities have lost warrants, have no goodbyes to pay off hunting fees. Obviously, it's much worse than having a fishing warrant and paying up to 82%, as it was, for profit. There's no job where it's gone away. Special tax returns over others, there's something I'd like to discuss. Is this the tax returns, the hunting fees? Is this not a price for the use of resources owned by the nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I said, step in the right direction. As I've said so many recent talks, there are many groups and different groups. I've been talking about patches in this rather defective bill. Is that a step in the right direction, toward reasonableness? It's just that it's really hard to find the only right number for all types of fishing. That's what I'm talking about. Those who don't have goodbyes but still pay resources because they rent to them what they want - the senator asks me if I've got it right - then the rules are now so that those who hunt are paying for it. This was changed a few years ago, and it's a very share of meanings, whether it's fair. On the contrary, the tenants have only fallen as a result. In fact, I felt more reasonable in my view that they paid the money they paid, not just those who fish. The question of what is the difference between taxes and fees - that may be a small amount of tax abuse. It's called resource charge, but I and a lot more people look at it as tax because it's taken over. That's how it's calculated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u32	A respectable president. Yeah, sure, it's taken away, and then I wondered if this is really the connection to how it's state strength. It doesn't matter how you're doing. At least you don't have a problem with putting your head on the fishing fee. You'd be out of your mind in another way. I think it's very clear about the fishing law that it's supposed to belong to the nation. Then it must be that any fishing warrant given by the nation is linked to the use of the nation's property, not to its property, and cannot at all be associated with any possession rights of it, that is very clearly in the Fishing Government Act. In addition, I wanted to ask myself, " Is it appropriate for me to discuss some interests in this regard? ' If the senators are e.g. linked to deportation in any way, doesn't it have to be explained if such a relationship is ongoing? I've heard that. A senator has been making an appointment, so he asks, "Is it possible to vote on this matter that has some effect on the structure associated with the members of Congress? " Is it not part of a specific set of interests that need to be made a declaration?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u33	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator. The fishing bill alone does not reassemble, but it is the drop that fills the meter with many people, where the work is heavy. Then I'm not talking about, as mentioned earlier in speeches, that the companies are being badly fired, but that's just the way it is made up. A lot of people have sold it over the past few years, and the compression is huge and even massive. For the hair of fishing fees. That's a fact. About stake ties and possible incompetentness. I've been doing a little work myself, and I've never been worried about it right now because this company is getting a very good discount on this bill. I've been talking about the next set up there. They're not connected to me unless they're a lot in my district. In order to discuss incompetent matters, perhaps all members of this country could be incompetent when we discuss income taxes and such. I don't consider myself incompetent, nor incompetent to discuss these things, doing them with dignity and considerable dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u34	Madam President. We're supposed to be racing a multiplicity of jobs. The more vigorous articles and more powerful companies in all our areas, the better. It is good for all the people of the country, whether in the capital area or in the wide and wide part of the country. In the capital area, a wide range of commercial activities is the largest, but much less diversity is in the national community. Although there are exceptional exceptions, the principle is monotonous and unswerving. In the national employment policy, it is not wise for an individual community law to be overly dependent on one or several homologous companies in the same area. This simply means too much risk, if ill - advised, and such communities find it harder to attract and hold on to young and well - educated people. They carry the weight if they are unable to renew the settlements of new companies and young people who can take advantage of their jobs and participate in productive human life. The marine exit is an important industry. No one shares that. Living the article as well as possible is important. The obligation of the government is to provide it as well as other sectors as much stability as it is thus necessary to be aware of what can be done. What is in the power of the government is primarily the norm and economic framework. Both are required to promote an equality and the most secure economy, low inflation, and normal growth, in this context, the least of which is a constant currency. All that was attributed here is just as important to the fishing road as to any other industry. At the same time, it must be ensured that the owner of the resource, the fishing grounds on the land, enjoy the resources it deserves, obtains a natural fee from those authorized to fetch the fish from the sea. The resource owner is all of us, i.e. The fishing grounds are national property, and I think we agree most of the time. For temporary access to the resource, it is reasonable and reasonable that those who have access to a fishing warrant pay a price that reflects the real value of having this temporary right and the means to find the worth of assessment are looking for market prices for these markets for a fixed period of time. We've been working for a policy on these topics. The price to pay is to attack an open market. The result is two ways, the price is determined at any given time by the ability and will of the developers to obtain the price of the market, and so the price is paid in real time as well. For more information on these aspects of policy development under the heading Marketing Way in the sea ensures agreeing on the article, with permission of the president: ▪ Reversal wants to make peace with the seabed for the future. Instead of hunting fees, there will be a set portion of quanan market every year. This will provide a fair market link for access to the resource and will permanently cover the sector. The route encourages practical management and maximum efficiency in the long run. It also opens a path for recruitment. The budget for the user rights of the resource will be partly devoted to the heavy farms of the resource. So what we want in these areas is clear. Like the restoration, all classes have set a course for themselves in this group of subjects. While there is a degree of harmony in these policies, all of them have the goal of securing a powerful seabed. Of course, it is good for us to have a basic goal in common, so it is important to search for the opportunity to agree between the political parties to achieve this common goal. Sadly, the bill of the government is not a step in this direction. That is why the Piratars, the Conspiracy, and the Reconsistencies proposed that the case be postponed and attempted to achieve a better understanding and to make time for the next year. Sadly, the deportation proposals of the classes were adopted in this matter of Congress. The same route went on to make it clear that fishing fees were paid for temporary fishing. Still, an attempt is made to make peace by presenting a change in plans to keep the unchanged system of fishing bills out of the next year. The time this creates can be used to find and combine what is in common with most of the groups at the General Assembly. It is proper to consider the policy of several groups and the methods laid down in these areas over the years. The left movement, including the permission of a president, has taken its own course: ▪ Each project has a greeting recommended by a seafaring minister, based on advice from the Institute of Marine Research. VG wants a breakfast of the present form to be canceled in steps and goodbye reassigned on the basis of community interest, country and employment. VG gives particular attention to the growth of coastal fishing. Reassignment is a temporary arrangement of Allowing, and it should be partly linked to the development of species and fishing methods, and, on the other hand, in part, to linked areas of the country and rural areas, and to those offered to define ways of distribution. During the reassignment, the State grants permission to make the nation's ownership clear, that the message is unsatisfactory, and the price of fishing is paid. In the policy of the advance party approved at his 33rd Assembly in April 2015 and has not been changed, I know, by permission of the Supreme Court. President: ▪ The sea's resources are the property of the Icelandic nation. It is one of the basic ways in which the nation works, and its translation to the economy is irrefutable. Care must be taken to ensure that his support is secure. To promote innovation as an opportunity for innovation must be thought of innovation in the fishing road. The right of hunting must be the property of the state. The agreements for the use of the duet should be made for the price. For these agreements, fair income is guaranteed to the nation. The budget takes into account the gangs of the article each time. [...] Among the people, reconciliation has to be made regarding that arrangement for future fishing. Makril is mentioned specifically in the policy of the Agency, which states: ▪ Mallil needs to be shared (coffee set). This has added to the fishing process by means of forethought and advantage in the system. In view of the fact that these rights are distributed to individual individuals, and because of the previously mentioned instruments obtained through economic management, it is important that a special charge be taken for the distribution of macroil. My opportunities for ships and boats must be considered to promote fishing in a shallow area, where circumstances exist. President. No other than that many common strands are in the direction of many groups in the General Assembly. There is no doubt much greater and better reconciliation than the bill and proposals of the greater part, and it is very sad that the government does not want to seize this opportunity that lies in the idea of Offension, the Controversity, Marty and Flock of the people to postpone this bill's execution for a year and to look for ways to get a better accord. President. Finally, I challenge the government party not to let this opportunity slip through my fingers, an opportunity that should at least to include, if there's something in terms of VG's fishing policy and the forwards I quoted above in my speech, the golden opportunities for these two groups to achieve their viewpoints in cooperation with the groups that want the case to be postponed and attempt to make even greater peace with it. I said, even better. Of course, that is not acceptable, but it is possible to make peace that in the end may not mean that everyone thinks he has achieved everything but should be able to walk safely away from the table. It's good for society, it's good for the politics, and most important, it's very good for the seabed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u35	A respectable president. I'm going to go over a few things in general about hunting fees and fishing politics that are considered. Clearly, there is a link between a law on the control of fishing and these fishing laws. By permission of the president, the report says: ▪ Might be considered as a fishing fee on the limits of taxation and the price required by the nation's resource. This is exactly what I think is a bit connected with the government of fishing, which says, by permission of a president: The European Court of Auditors is the European Union of the European Union. The aim of these laws is to promote the protection and practical use of them, thus ensuring stable work and inhabited in the country. - There's a lot to say about the impact in this country. Under these laws, the distribution of fishing warrants does not form a possession or unregistered custody of individual bodies over the fishing grounds. These are important things in these speculations that I would like to share with the council. You see, the government covenant says: ▪ We review the legislation on the fishing fees - which we are now reevaluating - has to have the primary objective of ensuring the nation's righteous share of the resource's income and taking into account what it can produce. - We're certainly taking into account our survival, but it's a question of whether we are insure a righteous share of the resource. - --indicating funds should be a payment for the access to a limited resource and, on the other hand, money from its use. The report describes this as a limit to the taxation and payment required by the nation's resources. It certainly does not require that this be a price demanded of the nation's resources. It's said that this is on the verge of taxation and charge. That's not exactly under the Constitution, the highest. President, as it is very clear in the policy of the Treaty that this should be a payment for access and interest on the resource use. So I don't quite see that this bill achieves the policy of the Constitution in this regard. I think this is an important addition to the report explaining that this is part of taxation. In recent years, it has been reported that the fishing warrants are being associated with the Constitution's holding rights. Those who have observed it undoubtedly experienced such an experiment. At any rate, I appreciate that this sentence, and the following, in connection with the hunting fees for taxing, is an attempt to substantiate the evidence that the fishing fee has an link in the Constitution of ownership and thus escapes the laws on the control of fish fishing, where fishing sources do not form rights, despite what is said there, because the constitution is higher than any other law. This is what I think is important to me to say in this context. The General stated by law on the control of fishing, not in a clear way, but in a very clear way, that the distribution of fishing warrants would not be right. The only way to escape the clear intention of the Generals - is not to be released, based on legal hook lines, that something else said by the Council has been said in a committee or appeared in the courts, under the Generals' request that the fishing warrants be irreprehensible and would not be entitled to it unless the Council states so as to be so clearly. In fact, only by altering Article 1. legal about the control of fishing. It's not being done here or in spite of all the evidence men seem to be trying to collect into this sarp - to make use of some kind of change in what the fishing sources themselves mean, e.g. By separating them from the laws of fishing, by enforcing them in special terms, by linking them to the Constitution's property legal requirements - simply not walking because the word and will of the Generalis is so clearly stated in the law on the control of fish fish. I'd like to try to get more people to make a statement in the General's symposium that there is absolutely no way to leave, by legal hooking routes, the bill's essay, or some other bills submitted, in order to be tried to escape what the Council says about the distribution of markets would not be the right or irrefutable custody of the individual bodies over hunting grounds. This is definitely the core of the struggle that is taking place against the resource directive of the new constitution, absolutely. It specifically says that anything that does not depend on personal rights belongs to the nation. Once the current constitution of possession has been obtained, the resources directives of the new constitution will be removed. The fight for exactly that, I think, is part of the bill's report. It is also very often said, even here in the General's symposium, that the only non - state - strength route in the United States is the Icelandic ocean. I'd like to overthrow that theory. At first, hunting costs, resource costs, have been linked. That means you can't really go wrong. You're just paying the resource fees for the profits you've got left. Then you have a certain government insurance policy; no matter how you walk, you don't go in a minus, at least not because of the government. Although it can be heavy, you don't have much space, at least you don't take a minus. In addition, we give our annual greetings to those who have the fishing clearances. We give it every year. This gift was made once, after hunting experience, people obtained fish from the sea for endless use, ◯initinum, and then fish from the sea. There's nothing but state strength, there's infinite access to a limited resource, just because of the duration. If, as you have suggested, you could buy your way into the fishing grounds, to salathan, on the market presidents, it would be completely gone. It would be no longer government strength, so people would be buying it on an equal basis. As is the situation today, the arrival of the recruits into this article is very limited because the fishing warrant is fixed; it is not floating; it depends on the individual decision to sell if there is good enough offer. In any situation, considering that the fishing warrant is independent of time, based on certain expectations, the price should be infinite. Of course, there is a risk that government could change and other emphasis might be replaced. It was, in a sense, probably assessed into the risks of those selling the fishing warrants, how long they expect to have those warrants. Already, therefore, temporary property is expected to be involved in the fishing warrants, but it is only a risk management project. Still, the systematic differences are present. So this is two things: we definitely have a rich seabed, there's nothing to deny. We need to give much thought to the struggle with the fishing warrants and to link with the ownership rights of the Constitution in connection with the resource regulations of the new constitution. It would be very nice to have the highest. A minister simply to eliminate any doubt about this bill, i.e. not to be, unintentional or deliberate, trying to establish a link with the interpretation of this bill or anything in it or in a paper as evidence that fishing can be linked to the Constitution's property rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. In many parts of the congregation, a senator gave an interesting talk. There are, in effect, two choices I made, both now in the senator's speech and in an antiquated speech that he had here. He spoke of a fishing road in Iceland as a state's scholarship and gives evidence of it. I can think of, now we have twice the value tax system, we have a lower value tax on books, and we have a lower value tax at hotel level. Looks sharp. A senator owns that as a matter of state strength? We also have the motivation for innovation in innovation companies. Is that in the values of government companies? We also got into it a few years ago, starting a very large commercial campaign because of traveling. Got it. A senator's strength? Besides, I'd like to ask you why. A senator, because he says that humans have access to the infinite, so the price should be infinite, but the price is naturally fixed each year, and now it seems to be in any way consistent with the survival of the article. The question is, for example. Of those who make up priceless spheres of nature: Should they pay some resource price for making income far into the future? The question is, shall we put a resource charge on the energy? Why don't we put the resource charge on water and steam? Or should we continue to keep this so-called resource charge on just one industry? I just want to hear some opinions. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u37	A respectable president. It was a little out of place at once. But having a lower value tax level is a discount of a merit tax, and as such, it's the state strength, yes. New creation strength is definitely a state strength, but there is also a certain investment, depending on the circumstances there. Nature bulbs or resources in nature, there's no one else with an untimely contract to access some natural bulb, so I know. In this arrangement it is similar, for if a pound of cod is found on 1 o'clock. But you have an infinite length of time to sell it, endless years, that is an infinite price, i.e. if you receive it every year, something you can sell at 1 K. the weight throughout your life and longer, by genetics, etc., it's infinitely high prices, times infinity, is equal to infinite. Resources on energy. Why not? We've got it in a state company right now. It's actually a resource charge, it's only government. I don't exactly see the exact connection to this. We do not have the same arrangement, but we could have the same arrangement that we have on the energy supply in the fishing road or vice versa. We would, in effect, be using such a private deportation or private authority as it is currently being carried out. If so, it would be of infinite value.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u38	V.E.G. President. If I remember correctly, the fishing system was put on a record of 1984. It's not infinitely long ago. At that time, fishing was done in a completely different way. But it is not because the fishing grounds have been distributed to the infinite. Rather, some have added to their fishing grounds by buying them at the age of less than 30 years or what it is now. I don't quite see how this goes into this thought. Senator on infinity. In 2013, I have taken the case, many who were in charge at the time thought that they were preventing compression by the decision of the then - to - be fishing fee. But it did not, as it did; it has never been greater and will be very much now, certainly followed by this decision, I fear. But there was something else I wanted to ask. A senator in, because he asked one before. A senator on his fishing grounds for interest. Now, it's no secret that we've been running with agents at the council now and we've had it for a long time. We have teachers, we have writers, we have farmers, luckily. We've got people from our jobs. The question is, feel why. Is it undesirable for a member of the council to represent various classes of the country? I can add programmers and such. Is it because of the evil that people in this world are in contact with it? Should they not be involved in decisions we make here? Aren't farmers supposed to talk about their deal? Should not writers refer to a lower level of merit taxation or to a version of the strength? Aren't teachers supposed to talk about academicism? This too has been the president of a major employee organization. [[The president calls.]] Were they, then, incapable of speaking up about that matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u39	A respectable president. Infinity is naturally limited by the life span of what is at that point, and at some point, it can be said: I am making more money selling it away from me now and not dragging into the infinity because I'm still limited myself anyway. As for the stake connection, we have one rule, it's very simple: You don't vote when it comes to deciding whether you're gonna get money to yourself unless there's a general rule, e.g. as with income tax. We can vote on how a income tax can even get to us, or it's not different from the front. But the rule is simply this: If you have to vote for something because of that bill or whatever it is, you're gonna get a coin, not everyone, but you, especially you, and especially if you're in that case unable to participate in that vote. There's one rule. Of course, teachers can participate in the discussions about teaching and labor leaders in discussions about salary rates in general, etc., but when they start voting for something that will bring money into their bank account, that is a interest relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u40	A respectable president. I think there's a reason to postpone this case for various reasons. First, there is a recent judgment that upsets the fishing regime with the national budget and is now enough. Besides, I have to say, I'm not saying that we need to lower hunting costs. We're very busy caring about the council these days. I have this compulsion, and I must apologize to a respectable Senate for premeditated, that I always think of the words that point to the reality we are dealing with. This is two words that are so strangely similar, yet there are so much pavilion between them. On the other hand, fishing costs have become expensive, almost identical in word, but they point in their own direction, becoming hunting costs pointing to the efforts of the current highest level. Governments in order to lighten the country's wealthiest projection, however, point to the expected efforts at the highest level. the current government to bring expenses to the nation, to direct expenses to the nation. Before I sat down to a congregation meeting, I met my dear friend and companion for many years before. paritaprevir The Mörður of Árnason. He gave me many practical suggestions on how to conduct myself at a council, and I have to admit that I have not, in all respects, been able to take full advantage of his counsel, but hopefully, sooner or later, to do so. One of the advice he gave me was that if I stood in a chair and didn't know my smoking advice, didn't know what to answer, it was obviously just a hole, which isn't difficult, I should bathe my hands and say, "These are amazing numbers, Mr. President. These are amazing numbers. Then Mogs told Mörður I'd get some credibility back. Then everybody would nod. Yeah, listen, he's right, they're probably quite amazing numbers. Now I'm going to listen to this. Although the time has not yet come for me to be completely out of my way, I intend to apply this fine advice to my partner and friend Mörður's former Árnason. A senator who says in this chair: It's amazing numbers. Because we have amazing numbers. V.E.G. Government, including ... issupposedtofor a four billiondevelopment of hunting fees. Mr. President. We, who have spoken here against a drop in fishing costs, have been repeatedly told that we are not in these discussions at all about hunting costs, but we are always talking about the fishing system, which is all other Ella, almost as if these matters are somehow completely separated. I don't think so. I think it's the same thing, I don't think they'll be apart. I think it's just the sides of the same coin. I don't think it's as complex and technical what you get to hear, and I think, like us, citizens, understand this and see it all about how we simply manage the community. I think it's about justice. I think it's about the shift in society, maybe all politics, how we change the quality and store in the community. I'd like to do this from now on to talk about self-sustaining. We are often told that this is about protecting the most sustainable fishing in the world. There's a lot of reason to believe that fishing is what they're doing to us, in many ways self-sustaining. In sustainable development, there are usually three pillars, the first support, the environmental support, perhaps the most important. When the eating system was introduced, it was certainly subject to the environmental support, i.e. Overfishing was reduced, contributed to the protection of the fish stocks, and contributed to sustainable use of fish plants. But that's not enough, it also needs to be the economic support, the economic. It's also there. In the event of the exorbitant period, it can be said that there will be a profit and then the launch is under the system of this economic support. But there's a third side. For a system to be self-sustained, a third support must also be available, it must also be sent under the system. It is social support, and it will. It was never done. She was never shot under the fishing system, and this led to serious consequences for the land's settlements, for many people who lost their livelihood, for many settlements that supported life and culture and life - style that may have been practiced for centuries, for centuries, for which the fishing grounds had developed for centuries. Then, one day, almost as if a hand were waved, and without knowing it, the inhabitants had no way of thinking, their survival was pulled away, and the right to the prey was taken into the distant hands of those who always became bigger and bigger and farther and more distant and more powerful and more powerful. Finally, they had all the counsel of the people in their hands. These revolutions of the fishing system caused enormous difficulties in the seas in many parts of the country. We who speak for another system would like to try to achieve three goals. We'd like to increase equality in assigning the national stocks to the uses. We would like to facilitate recruitment in this article by reducing the rate of high rents and making a decision on the cost of the money for the political rights and for the article itself, as it is unnatural for politicians to do so. This system has been involved in many decades of controversy. This controversy has been tiresome for the nation and for the council. A lot of energy has gone into this dispute. Above all, people who work in the fishing business may feel tired of being involved in a constant debate over their business habits with a form of suspicion and hostility. It is not natural for such a deep and bitter debate to hold on to this fundamental way of doing things. You still feel like a basic question about the nation's legitimate claim to profit from the fishing resource, and you feel that it lacks the will and ability to cope with the larger picture and how we divide it. I must say, sire President, that I am sorry that this key point of the matter is not discussed. The government groups offered a suggestion for dismissal of 2nd. That was a wise, modest suggestion. It was rejected, and any other adjustments made in an attempt to establish a few factors were also rejected, although at least Two of the three members of the government had them on their policy list. Now we make another sensible suggestion, i.e. extending the present arrangement for reconciliation, in order to resolve the situation in harmony. There is not a hundred people in danger, so we are easily disturbed by some form of anger. This article will help you to meet the needs of your family in a practical way. It's going to blow. She was at least enough money to pay $23 billion for last year's profit. The cost of fishing is 7 billion. For the next three years, it will be 6◯8 billion, and as with government opposers, we may have many shadow, we enjoy waving it, it is pretty much like a six billion tobacco charge. Perhaps there is good reason to repeat what Mörður Árnason taught me to say from the public speaker: these are amazing numbers. We in the United States have spoken for an invitation. We've been talking for the implementation of markets on markets, for which a principle is issued when the public needs to assign some limited quality, limited access to certain quality, to get the best price for it. However, we do not propose an invitation here today. Probably not much more is involved in the conference hall. But we do speak for not being truthful in this matter, working more on this matter, and trying to achieve minimal harmony across all politics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u41	A respectable president. In the end, we are on the long journey through the 3rd. ... abouta controversial fishing bill. We've been arguing a while and we've used a lot of energy and we've been hammering, but have we been going along? Have we moved? That's a matter of opinion. We may have crammed the nightmares at the best. The fishing system has slightly split this nation. This matter has been disputed over the years, and we still share. The main issue may not be how we have come to the conclusion of using the institutions and how much we take away from fishing institutions, but we have achieved fine results in many countries. The analysis is about the possession and how we interpret the ownership of this resource, defined and challenged in Article 1. the law on the control of fishing, but everything has not happened. It is interpreted in a peculiar way, and the nation has not been involved in the resource it deserves. Now we've stopped hearing here at the council hall, or we haven't heard of it for a long time, that it didn't make the quota. But we are far along. Not long ago, we learned that the nation had nothing to do with it, that they would not go out to sea to fish, and those who fish should rightly get all the rights to own that resource. In reality, though, our community opposes that thought, and we hear so many calls for change. Of course, we listen for it, and the drop breaks the stone. The resource planning has, unfortunately, taken place outside the General Assembly. It is the projection that has, in fact, developed much of the valid policy, and it is heavier than tears that consider how the land's urban settlements have fallen away because of this system. It's tragic to see that political groups that blame themselves for socialism and I don't talk about regional policy could support what is involved in the action we're accepting. We need to focus on securing the work done - in this article, as in any other industry, people vary in their design - in a secure future, that's the whole thing. We have been told so many times that those who offer something other than what is today are subversive and even up to that. Of course, the changes in the system will be in our opinion to ensure full equal access to hunting rights. The owner, of course we are together, gets full prices for the hunting rights and that this will end, this priority for the use of the resource we've been on in recent decades. We suggest that the price for fishing is changed in exchange for long - term fishing and that its collection will be simplified, for part of our problem is that we have built an inexpensive system with which few fully know and need to simplify so that it is understandable to most people. It is sad to see, of course, that how many of our proposals to push our system into a much different direction, toward more justice and fairness and, of course, toward freedom, and toward the market thinking, which one would have considered in the foreword to be good and the excerpt of the largest administration party, is rejected. We've suggested, I think, three times we've tried, though not more, on the present system to offer extra parvota to explore the market, but it's been rejected. We feel that fishing costs or the cost of fishing are unlikely to be obtained until it is determined by some market connection. It's a real challenge to see that the speciality of marine resources still has so much power and influence here at the Council, the forces that protect large productions at the expense of smaller fishing and agriculture in the region. They are strong and do not seem to care much about shame or honor. They're here at the council. The case's not secretive. We want change, creating potential for growth and building up for everyone, not a few major projects that sit on billions of dollars in clean profits after the last loss, despite spending unprecedented sums in flotation. We make a responsible move, but these exports are considered by the existing governments, as mentioned earlier. It's real to know that the forces that teach themselves to be sociable are going down these rivers, as I mentioned. To continue stirring the same pot is dangerous to this nation. That's not cool. And, of course, the design must be realized that this will stop. The demand for change is becoming louder and louder, and if the arrangement thinks it will improve as time goes on, that is a misunderstanding. The hunting bill, which we hope to be postponed at 11th hour, continues to maintain a stable policy in the management of fish fish, ostensible and hopeless places for small productions. It'll be as impossible as it used to be for new ones to plant their rivers. Larger settlements that have their hand on a considerable scale will have laws and praises, dominate hunting warrants, while the country's breakfasts will have to be rented by the authority of the owner, the nation itself, the state's funds, with very little toll. There's no way of living to accept this bill. We propose a stand-by, we take care of things better. It wouldn't be surprising that until you know that there's fish lying here somewhere under a rock.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u42	Mr. President. I want at the end of this discussion to thank you for the coverage that has taken place in the 3rd district. ... abouta hunting bill. What I think stands out on 3rd. It is that, in fact, the content of the bill is not to be criticized. Rather, changing the law about fishing, which is another matter, is more natural for humans to have differing opinions about it. In 2012, the Supreme Court's recent judgment on the distribution of markets at macroil has developed and mixed with them, whether or not there are any doubt of the common share of crops. I believe there is a law on the control of fishing and 1st par. their law to make use of resources in Iceland is to share the country, to be firmly and unquestioned that these laws represent their own. But I, along with others in this council hall, would like us to gather to establish a constitution of resources, and that's very important. I was on the Peace Committee on how to change the fish - control laws back in 2012, calling for a legal sheet from a Supreme Court attorney named Magnús Thoroddsen, and that is a legal opinion. It shows that the right to use markets and markets within a year are provided for a year at a time, i.e. The 12 - month fishing year. To me, therefore, there is no doubt that the crops of Iceland are the common property of the nation. It is only natural for us to discuss it in this council hall, but it does not necessarily belong to this subject and has been given very much and materially. But it is urgent that new laws be applied at annual times, where the current standards for fishing run out in the New Year's Eve. But I would suggest that the matter be granted favorable attention at the council after the 3rd. and thank those who brought it up and contributed so that the council could make the most of this big and important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u43	Mr. President. I heard some words coming out of me. paritaprevir My daughter, Magnúsdóttir Rafney, reported that there had been no material criticism about the contents of this bill from the government position. I wanted to ask her a little more about what she interprets as a material criticism. I don't know why. A senator was in the hall when I gave a 15 - minute talk about the motivation that is made to give the money ablaze when we are removing the processing from the fishing formula. It's been discussed by a client and us in the government position. I kind of spent my entire first talk at 3rd. and now on discussing this problem. Does it not feel that it is in a material way critical of discussing the dangers that various sources have identified, as I do? Is it not a matter of material criticism that this prompts to fire money from the source of fishing fees, possibly to reduce seamen's wages, and to create more incentive to shoot money away than if the industry was still inside? Is that not material criticism? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u44	Madam President. In the case of covert prices, more than once the Commission received representatives from the governor of the taxpayer to discuss the concern that there could be no distinction, that fishing and processing were expected. It was stated at a meeting of the Committee, which was not a doubtful, that representatives of the head of the government trusted to cooperate with this bill and make it clear that it can be handled as much as possible with the companies under which tax laws on the cover are applied. It's not just the fishing route, of course, there are a lot more companies that set out tax laws on the cross-cutting. Of course, if a business in the fishing field and other companies break tax laws, it's just a clean, clean lawbreaker. It is truly serious if it is revealed. But it was made clear that the government tax manager and the representatives of that office trusted completely, as if in this bill, the case was prepared to cooperate effectively. Neither the representatives of my section nor the majority of the committee failed, for the government tax manager was confident to cooperate with this case so that no material adjustments were made regarding this aspect of the government. So I understood that, so they trusted the government tax manager to cooperate with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u45	Madam President. I'll repeat it now when it's too late. A senator has come to the hall for me to trust a tax president just to do his job. That's not the question. However, the government tax manager made it very clear that it was not an easy matter to deal with and that they could not clearly say or tell whether this was being practiced, that it is very difficult to realize. True, they will do their best. But that wasn't my question. My question was about the speech of the dog. A senator who's in a state of shock. A senator claimed that no material criticism was presented in the subject of the bill. My question was simple: Is it not a material criticism to criticize the fact that the process is taken out of the calculus of a hunting fee? Is that not material criticism? I'm just asking, so I repeat that question. Then I add at the end of another question: What other evidence is there behind taking the process out of the formula but an idiotic pink laundry that I don't, unfortunately, buy? What are the reasons for taking this out? I haven't seen them say anything anywhere. Is it not a matter of material criticism to point out that this is an incentive to cheat on paying the right price and could reduce the wages of sailors? Is that not material criticism? What are the reasons for doing this? Why couldn't this package be what it was? What is the argument behind it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u46	Madam President. The representatives of the government tax authorities made it clear that their office trusted to carry out these laws so that they would be free of charge. In case of a moment. A senator has felt that the words could not have been trusted, but it would have been reasonable to propose a change in the motion involved. Of the fact that the process is taken out, which, of course, was clear in the bill why it was, there are preparations that don't have any processing, and their environment and others are confused about the pressures of hunting fees to mix it together. It was very unfair to those who were not in progress. I think if it happened. Because they had made a material comment on the changes, they did not trust in the material evidence that the change was made and that they could not swallow the reasoning that would have followed it, of course, the suggestions on these two factors. It would have been very normal to do so. We received answers from visitors and answers to whether their office was trusting to cooperate with this matter, and it seemed to them to do so. I then felt that men had conviction that the office could be trusted to cooperate with this issue, as it was published on its part. For this reason, I said that there had been no conclusion and that there had been no physical criticism except that had been answered within the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u47	A respectable president. A small solution here at the end of the discussion, but in 1st paragraph. This bill says that fishing costs are laid in order to meet the State's cost of research, etc. But in a financial program, we have just the most expensive ocean research vessel. A minister has been looking for a bright light for a coin. That's $3.3 billion. It's been approved by Congress, 500 million on budget 2019 for that assignment. Unchanged, the fishing costs had been about 4 billion higher, enough for a ocean study ship. The bullpen, the 23 billion referring to, is a six - ocean - study ship. I just wanted to think about how the administrative part would support this if the purpose of the bill was to include. meeting the State's cost of research, but there is a lack of money for a marine research vessel and there is an proposed reduction in the cost of more money than it takes to build a whole new ocean research vessel.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u48	Madam President. The financial program accounts for the next year's fishing costs of some 6◯7 billion. But then, of course, we don't know what it will be like when the decomposition begins to work, when the year 2020 begins to penetrate. We can expect the fishing costs to increase them, just as we can expect them to drop. Of course, a fund is obliged to fund all the research that comes with ocean research. It has been. This, of course, is very urgent, and government funds will finance a marine research ship. I have no doubt that it will be done. In the suggestion of the smaller portion, which lay between the 2nd and 3rd. I was very interested in seeing that the government fund was not going to get all the money from the hunting fee, so I turn the question back on the dog. A senator: How should a ocean - research ship have been funded with the suggestion that only the research was to be done and that the remainder of any undefined building fund is not available in the administration? But I have full confidence that a ship of research will come to be financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u49	A respectable president. So I'm taking the other one out of the way, and it's already been answered. In particular, this bill says that the fishing fee is laid, by permission of the President, in order to attend the State's cost of research, control, control and management of fish fishing and fish farming, and to provide the whole nation with a direct and visible share in the production of crops in the marine environment in the future. Clearly, then, the question is: Will this ship be paid at the price of fishing? There are, indeed, 61⁄2 billion there, but there is a particular business that needs to be expected in addition. There's a deliberate reduction of survival, and the head of the employment committee here says that the recovery in plus or minus in 2020 may be quite vague, which is very interesting. Do we not base on a projection of how these fishing costs will develop to the future? Wouldn't it be very natural if we put a law like that, that we had at least a five - year view of how this is going to develop? That's the rhythm we're working on to five years of age to see how our income develops from different income stocks. Now we're putting new songs, we have new calculations, and we don't know what it'll be like, according to the way it's going to be 2020. The head of the pro board. But then I simply ask again: The cost of building the marine research ship will be financed by fishing costs, as 1 str. this song?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u50	Madam President. I can't help but smile here at the end in terms of being sorry because, according to the suggestion of the smaller share of hunting costs, a change in proposal discussed here between 2 and 3. Um... we wouldn't have had any green suspicions about what kind of fishing fees we were working in 2020. [[I was asking you.]] [[Suggested suggestions.]] We wouldn't have had any green suspicions about that, so I'll lead responsibility to the father house in terms of regret. But I have to trust that the presidents of all political parties who promised to finance a ocean research vessel on the state - of - state anniversary of the Þingatur during summer are all men of their word and will be financed. I trust that. Among them was a Pirata representative who wrote up on it. I'm not worried that it won't work out that it will be the gift of the Generals to the nation to finance a new ocean research vessel. Then I think it'll be over again to draw attention to each other. The senator and others realize that with this bill, which hopefully will be approved tomorrow, we are extending the hunts and the insight is, of course, that they can rise, they can decrease after the release of the article. That's how all of us, or most of us, have spoken here in the chamber, that this reflects the source of this article. Of course, it is very important in this important article that they continue to grow, grow, strengthen, and reside in the land, bringing in the interest of the nation we make use of.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u51	Madam President. I would recommend a greater part of the Health Committee on a bill to correct any change in health care law, which may not seem at first sight to be very large or large, but is quite important. The committee discussed this case, not for the first time, this fall in which a comparable case was handled at the last spring meeting of the Committee. It was then in line with the opinion of the committees and the Shippings of the bill to create a better life, including a better design. Because stakeholders made it clear that they and we have had insufficient consultations. The welfare committee agreed with that conclusion. At the bill, as it is today, there were six reviews, but during the last assembly, there were about nine reviews. The committee called in a visitor to meet the Þorvaldsdóttir and Elsa Friðfinnsdóttir from the Ministry of Health, Tryggvi Þórunn and Garðarsdóttir Þórarinsdóttir from the European Union of Iceland, Rúnar Björn Herreri Þorkelsson and Sigurjón of Sverrisson from the National Institutes of Health. As explained in the bill's report, the goal of equalizing the access of those who need a stay in space or of day, regardless of age, and of setting priorities as needed. It is important here, Madam President, that there is, in fact, a certain type of adjustment, can be called, on the law of nursing that is also in the same law. A number of years ago, the law was passed on a nurse's warrant, but here we are primarily talking about residence and day - to - day choice. The bill therefore suggests that the law will be changed in a way that if necessary, it is permitted to agree to a stay in residence and day for an individual under 67 years of age and the individual wishes to do so. And that's the key, Madam President. Taking the initiative from there is a key step in this matter. Some viewpoints and criticisms were given to some of the elements of the bill. It may be the main concern of providing this source, since it would be a misstep to what some have called an international policy, to enable all people in the community to live in their own, to live in an independent home for as long as possible. That my knowledge and share of the Committee do not conflict with these main factors; it is primarily to ensure that by granting this warrant, it is also available for those who, in fact, have no other means of using them, including the resources of user-controlled personal assistance, which the Parliament approved the total legislation on under the name of a highly supportive law, if I recall correctly. By agreeing with this bill, it has also been claimed that there was an increase in societalisation in the community. As the report shows, and as the committee was presented, and in the panel discussions it is not at all the objective but the stated policy of both the Ministry of Health and, in fact, the majority of those dealing with cases of service, such as those discussed in the bill, is to try to minimize and give the most of that service at home. The majority of the material rights of the service to the level of service most suitable for the individual's needs and in full agreement with the person himself. This is the complete key, i.e. that the person in question is the main authority, not some system, organization, or name, or something like that, and that decisions do not really come about until other options have been fully tested. This is repeated, at least in two places in the committee. The commission also mentioned concern that there would be a cost raise for the bill. The majority of the committee do not believe in the fact that the approved bill is not increasing the number of residents, but is primarily opening a warrant that, in exceptional cases, less than 67 years of age can apply to stay in space, as discussed. In fact, it was before the committee that there were very few individuals, i.e. Those who applied for them were the residents. However, the committee noted that there were several individuals now living in nurses who were 67 years of age and younger. It is important to repeat it again that it is very important to distinguish there, i.e. individuals who are in residence areas and those who are in nurses. Like what? The members of the council are likely to be somewhere in the country between over 3,000 medical facilities or 2,700, not to be taken into the magazines, but to be expected to be looked up by members of the Parliament. However, there are much fewer living space and only a few hundred running. So the danger of experiencing some significant financial gain is not great. However, it was pointed out to the committee that in some cases, when individuals are very young and need to apply for these provisions, they may need to be cared for for in a way that is especially suitable for younger ones. The Commission specifically points out that when appropriate, the Ministry has to assume with its institutions, and then perhaps in particular Iceland's health insurance, that it needs to be treated with a contract, and it is very important that we do so. The greater part, however, emphasizes that this is the case with very few individuals, so there may not be any reason to assume in all agreements but only in those homes where these situations might arise. The committee also discussed a considerable need for professional participation teams and conditions for assessment of the need for day-to-day. In view of the greater part, it is not necessary to set up the same pattern of dosing as applying permanently, such as in nursing or living homes, for which day - to - day services are essentially primarily required and frequent services are not particularly extensive for the person involved. Hence, there may not be any particular reason to make some elaborate or elaborate food. In some cases even one healthcare professional or one member of the community service might have felt that this service was needed. A majority of the objects are included. in her opinion that these may be doctors, nurses, physical therapists, social workers, occupational therapists, or other members. The majority also believe that this professional evaluation will not be necessary to delay the application or procedure, and it is therefore important that we try to simplify that process. The committee and reviews found that with increasing emphasis on health care in relation to day - to - day choices, costs may increase, and thus also the expectations of people and caregivers. The majority stress that despite the fact that part of day selection is performed by health care professionals, who are often specialised in the services of memory-independent persons, the service of day-to-day should be based, in the opinion of the greater part, not health care, and in cases where there is an increased need for this type of service, it is more reasonable to assume in contracts such as the one I mentioned earlier. The Committee also showed that there are no differences or major differences between the costs of services and the state, and the State's claim on services is not fully in line with the price of paying for the ministry. The majority stress that this is a contract between parties, in this case Iceland's Medical Insurance and Services. However, we stress that such a contract needs to be used in the best information and that changes in individual services may need to be addressed, and this may especially apply to the events mentioned above. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the continuation of the bill. Under the view of more parts of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's publications, executive manager, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ingi In Jónsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. I don't see any reason, Madam President, to keep this number longer, and I look forward to hearing all the views that may be seen by other members of the council on this other quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u52	President. I apologize for having to say anything so late in the evening. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that this bill was designed to provide resources for those who have no other means of making use of them. Then I'd like to ask. A senator whether he believes that this option is real if we do not have this greeting on the user - controlled personal assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u53	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's question. Yeah, I think this would be necessary, even if we're gonna make some money to NPA. Sadly, we already have examples of those who need such services even when they are young. As with the committee, there may be an incident. where there is a very peripheral population, where services are very difficult to perform and such, where this source needs to be available. As noted, including. We already have several cases where individuals have lived in local homes, including some of them. In the country, with some kind of abduction from the Ministry without clear legal authority. The bill is, in effect, meant to correct it. I think me and what. A senator would agree completely that it is our mission to work on adding to the budget that goes on the NAP agreements. I think we can totally agree on that. And I think I and what. A senator believes that, in time, the resources for more and more will be enjoyed. But that is not all, and that's why I think it's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u54	President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I wonder - if there are cases in which individuals cannot and would not take advantage of NPA, or that would not be suitable for those people, but they need access to such measures - whether it is not necessary to tailor them to the measures they are taking rather than to enter the resources planned for 67 years of age and older. Today, entertainment and food are a custom of older generations or older citizens. I wondered if there is anything that would be appropriate for a younger person who has a completely different set of needs and interests and a different taste for music and food and just everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u55	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's question is very important. The majority are seeking to answer this in their opinion. We feel that it is very important to look at these matters when an institution or home is taking up residence with a younger person, but more so when we are talking about day - to - day service for younger ones. Happily, we have already had some day - to - day experiences with individuals on the younger side, and they can be searched for. For people who have neurological disorders without having congestive heart failure, there are day-to-day choices. It's done fine. That experience and knowledge exist within these devices, and it is vital that we look to it. However, it is this way, at least in my opinion, that when you look at these measures as most commonly used, it is for less - memoryed individuals, it may be more common than that of younger ones. If so, we may not have the same needs as when we have much younger ones who are primarily suffering from neurological disorders. But there is a real need for a word of advice. A senator needs to look to these things. It is important that staff in these places be aware. As stated in the Committee of the Largest Part, we believe that at least that the Ministry and Medical Insurance should be looked forward to the need for special attention, to make financial contributions to these institutions or places to meet these needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u56	President. I recommend to members of the Committee on Health Care and Health Care Professionals and Health Acts for the Elderly and Health Insurance Act, Living space, and Daytime. The bill clearly violates the very idea that all people will live for themselves. Rather than developing a greater variety of housing options for older people and disabled persons, there is a fundamental basis for the same ideologies on founding. I'm aware of that, and it came out of the question. A senator who recommended the members of the body's section that it was not the goal of increasing the development. I can agree with that, I don't think that's the goal, but I think that's the result. Depending on this, stakeholders like e.g. The microengineering alliance is the result of opening this tool for under 67 years of age. The central issue of independent life is that all disabled people and other persons who need assistance in the activities of daily life have the right to make decisions about their lives to the same extent. The blessing is on the obligation of the states to ensure a self-employed life on the 19th floor. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment The contract is based on a human rights approach to disability, which includes the obligation of a contract to ensure all disabled people's rights equal to others. Human rights approach to disability is based on social vision, which involves the inability of society to adapt to the diversity of the natural form of human existence. The human rights approach to disability also means that the community to adapt to diversity is not to ask what is wrong with the individual but what society needs to do in order for the individual to enjoy its rights. Thus, it is the responsibility of society to provide disabled persons with a life of their own. The human rights fight of disabled people has even It involves a breakdown of institutions that have over time oppressed people to live up to the interests of institutions, not according to the will of disabled people. In this matter it is going contrary to this, because in the bill it is, in fact, that the answer of the system will continue, and even more than ever, the founding of disabled people. Even if it's not the goal, it's the result. In turn, a new health policy has little to do with the definitions of nursing space, residence space, or day - long selection, and grouping of them according to the needs and circumstances of the groups involved. This points out the Union's member of the United States in his review and makes serious comments to the bill. In turn, the enterprise's organisation in welfare services, in its review, does not consider sufficient grounds to accept the bill as it is available. This issue highlights the need for a completely new thought within the system, which, in view of a long wait list, is not a need for service. In this context, an Icelandic community must start taking their international commitments seriously, in this case ensuring all disabled persons for their own lives. Users controlled by personal assistance have e.g. The proof is in this country, but while the government still uses a greeting for that service, there is a foundationisation like this only logical reaction to the situation. So the smaller section considers the need for a new perspective on the human rights approach to disability and emphasis on changes in aging services, where automates are actually guaranteed and removed from the course of continued institutionalization. It's not going to be done in the way you put it here. This reminds us that waitings in nursing homes, as well as services in local areas, are already longer and will be further extended if the bill is approved. Then the arrangement suggested in the bill would still limit the rights of those 67 years of age and older who now have a need for the ministry. I'd like to reiterate that if we were to take a step toward opening up for an institution under 67 years of age, I would have considered it wise to take the box from the user - controlled personal assistance first. It is available then for all who truly choose to take advantage of that resources, and it would be possible to open up to those who simply do not want or cannot use the user - controlled personal assistance as the first option. In the above regard, the lesser part is opposed to the approval of the bill. Under this opinion, the one listed here writes a letter. paritaprevir The Goddess of S. Brjánsson and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u57	Madam President. It may not surprise many to know that I do not agree with the opinion of a member of the health committee, although there are certainly good points in between. It is important at the beginning of the counter to point out that I appreciate what is reflected in my opinion, of course, that it is not a goal to promote institutions. I think everybody's down. That view must be agreed with by members of the Parliament. It's hard for me to believe something else, let's at least say. I would like to reiterate what I mentioned in my talk earlier, which is that this bill in itself does not open up to anyone under 67 years of age to live in nursing homes or institutions at all. It is merely a process of amortizing this scaffold that was in the law that the warrant does not cover residences. That is what they are primarily doing. I also reiterate that we are better off talking about very few individuals. The Senator rightly mentioned the concern described, perhaps particularly in the comments of the Association of an enterprise in the welfare services that we handle only in the majority interest, while the rest of the reports on this issue are not particularly concerned. True, they point to several points, and I would like to introduce the senator to some extent if she felt that some of their views on the matter were consulted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u58	President. I understand from the answers I received from Iceland's Micro-Development Association and the Social Services Association that these talks were actually just like frequent consultations, unfortunately. It is more important that people accept their views, they are listened to, but the comments that have come along and are working to find out any compromises in their case. That's what I got. On the other hand, I made a special examination at the Quantum Coalition to see if it would be okay with this bill. It's not. There they are deeply concerned that we are taking steps in the wrong direction, that we are going backwards. The reason for this is as if I mentioned in my speech that there is a greeting on the user - controlled personal assistance that means that people who want to take advantage of NPA are not getting it because they don't have money for it or that the community doesn't have the authority to do that. Then there is concern that people will have to take advantage of daytime, living space, or other institutions rather than NPA services. That's why we in the minority opinion cannot accept this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u59	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answers. It is true that the senator's view of the matter is not always followed in consultations, as by itself, does not mean that one person takes the job completely. On the other hand, the review of Developmental Help shows that there is a much more positive cover over it than there was last spring, and it actually encourages us to try to ensure that the law is not being abused, and, as men have said, encourages younger people to go into a nursing home but primarily to try to use it as a means of emergency. We agree with this and agree with it in the opinion of the greater part. Regarding NPA, which the senator has mentioned, we must not forget that the last of us opened up to the very fact that older ones could enjoy NPA, just as younger ones do. In a sense, then, we too are using this bill to give younger ones the opportunity to use all the services offered by the system rather than just some particular service. I think it's important. Finally, regarding what the senator said about the future view that we should not be using root measures, this bill will deal with the problems of individuals who are in trouble now and not in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u60	President. I realize this bill is responding to individuals who are in trouble right now. The reason for the problem is that the user - controlled personal assistance is being addressed. I've been saying this, I just need to say that again. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I know there's been a lot of thinking that at the time when we went over these matters on the welfare committee and we were talking about it -- I talked very much about this saying and that he shouldn't be there, but there was a fear of having it completely open for costs that could not be seen to what would be great. It was willing to take shorter steps to try this, and that led to the conclusion. The result is that people do not receive the help they need, and that is why this bill is being handled. That's how I get it. Criticism in the memory of the section is that it's the wrong approach. I think it's just like that. A senator said earlier, we simply disagree.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u61	Madam President. We're here discussing a greater part and a smaller part of the health committee on bill to legalize health care laws, laws on the issues of the elderly, and health insurance laws. It has the highest living space and the day. I'm one of those who support the minority opinion of the Committee, but I want to know that the Committee took place a gentle, upbuilding, and excellent discussion on the subject, and most of us agree. We agree on our goals, our well - being, our older citizens, and our disability. My attitude is that I believe that there is a reason why we use every opportunity to declare that we should abandon the course we have followed for decades and that we are a course that is of the missing time, gone century. Each of us can look at his own feelings and ask: Are the choices that are primarily available today the choices that we will be happy and content with when it comes to our need for support in our later years or when we are disabled? In this slight change of law, which seems to be so, but as a messenger of the greater part mentioned, this bill, as though not much, makes a statement that we are not going to disappear soon. They're reducing the age of those who have a chance of entering space and into daylight. This may be a generalization, but let's take a closer look. Nurses have been legally authorized to have individuals under 67 years of age who wanted to bring this to harmony in their living quarters. It would have been preferable if we had seen the evidence in the current government that a new thought was to be born with governments, to offer more options, to offer more chance that people can live longer, that they would have been given funds, especially earmarks, to promote home care, to promote home - care and support, but it is not to be seen. Of course, we have a personalized user support. It's a step in the right direction, and it's a delightful step that we celebrate. Of course, these treaties have limitations, but it is our determination and determination to increase those agreements. We believe that service in that state will spread and will be much happier when we step further into this century. What also had a measure of control over my position was the position of the European Union of rural society who did not have complete conviction that the operation was well controlled, and also that the enterprise's services do not make it sufficiently certain that the period of waiting would not be prolonged. So we are still in the process of focusing on institutions, but we should consider much more options, and we would have chosen to be more pronounced in the financial program of the current one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u62	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A fine speech is Guðjón's servant, the son of Brjánsson. I reiterate what I said earlier that I think I am and what I said. Though we have not been desolate to share the same opinion, a senator is in all fundamental agreement on this matter. But it's all right. On the other hand, I feel that the senator's case gives a clear view that it is possible not to accept this bill, that it is a real option not to do anything in the situation, to believe that the issues that are somehow resolved. It's out there in the community, and why. A senator knows as well as I do, individuals who use this service when they are already in need. We know that the options I have and that I have. A senator agrees that there will be no extra tomorrow or the other. They will not come within the time these individuals need it. So I'd like the senator to know if he doesn't agree with me in that although we can agree on our policy, there is a real need to make the adjustments so that those individuals, at least Those already in charge of these measures are not nearly at the mercy of the Ministry or the institution they already have, i.e. ... thatyouwillbesetupfortheinstitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u63	Madam President. Thank you. Senator for the first question. There's no absolute value in life, no absalutation. Of course, there is a doubt. We know our country's situation, it varies depending on whether we live in a country or in a city. In the country, there are not many resources, which is why this option has been chosen, including has turned to younger people. The only option then is: Do you want to move from your home? People have been put in this situation. But after all, I feel that we should submit to these attitudes that are involved in creating people with the potential for independent living beyond anything else if they are practical or practical. But this is not always realistic. I agree with what. A senator says we should frame our actions into law, this is supposed to be under law. Like what? A senator may not be talking about a very large group. But we're just living with this. Despairers and people with disability do not trust that this will not be abused or abused at the expense of NAPA as the first option, that the rural communities or commercially operating machines will not take the first option to the most nearest, possibly a residence agency that already exists in the area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u64	Madam President. Now we know why. A senator that it is not in the power of a fellow rural group to decide with a place to live, either in a nursing home or in a nursing home. This decision is made, not by rural society, but by the health and performance assessment committees of health care professionals throughout the country. In some cases, it may be that to get rid of the expense of a community, we should say, which may result from considerable service, to direct some person into space. But the decision is not made by the Company, it is by the individual and by the Committee that measures the need. I know it's the senator's idea. I am, as I have repeatedly said, in the foundation of this council member's agreement about a lot of things in this series of languages. So I'd like to mention that if we were to follow the leading party as it happens, you would say that you were surprised that the smaller portions of the motion do not produce a change in the amount of clearance for younger than 67 years in the nursing room. Is that not the same thought? There we are talking about much more individuals. I feel that there's a certain inconsistency. I feel that people have to think about what they're up to. We're really talking about people who are in need now, not tomorrow and not the other person now. Then I think it's easy to say, to say, "No, let's just not agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u65	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for second answer. Yes, I know the rules. Take, for example, a person in a land under 67 years of age who suffers from disability. Because he lives in a facility of residence, we know exactly what power will start. Yes, it is with reality, it is often unpleasant, especially in our environment that affects the structure of the law. Not everyone may be inclined to offer young people a nursing home for decades and to spend their days in the same way. Of course, we have examples of special nursing facilities for those with certain weaknesses. We would need to consider more, or set aside operations, nursing homes, so that people can live with dignity and dignity in their midst. This is just the same with the day - to - day service that we need to expand much more, which is part of the open ministry. We have people who teach brain failure, and we have people with other physical or mental diseases who should be in the same way rather than in an undefined service space.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u66	Madam President. I may only discuss this bill on health care, which is being discussed on the issues of the elderly and the health insurance relating to daytime and space. I feel like an interesting conversation tonight about this subject, the reason I decided to speak up is because I live in a small rural society and I know more of the smaller communities where we are before just what is being discussed here, including. of what? The last speaker, I think, would even have to move people if they didn't want to or would not have a chance to take advantage of the local space. I know such matters very well, and I agree with a lot of things here on the subject that, of course, we want as many as possible to enjoy using personal assistance, especially younger people. I feel that there's been a lot of talk about disability, including... in the minority opinion, but not only can people be sick and for various reasons not live alone at home or something like that. It doesn't have to be an extra disability, but I agree with it, and it sounds like we're all agreed on the approach that people can live the longest in their home with some kind of help. I find something special that as soon as they say there are not very many people mentioned, they still talk about how much it can affect a waiting list. I think it's just a little discrepancy. I think we have to face the fact that when we live in a country that is composed like ours, where the settlement is very scattered and often in very small villages, we do not even have people, although we would like to offer up the ministry. the user-controlled personal help. Even local household services are not humanized. I feel that we are merely robbing our living homes by saying that there are no ways to respond to people of different ages. Of course I agree in my heart that very young people are not supposed to have to spend their lives in a nursing home, where most of which are being offered services for older people. I think there are exceptions in general. Resources can be tailored incredibly well to individuals in these habitats, I've seen it so I'd like to protect them from the resources that I think especially smaller communities had to adapt to. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son as far as we need to do what we see today. We talk about building a nursing home or doing something far in the future that we are not solving, but now we need to resolve. Of course, because this is what is called "a waiting list, " we are now trying to handle the situation. It's very important. Then we need to look into the future with a guide where we will be able to direct this service closer to the ideologies that have been most discussed and taken into account, whether as a generation or as a family or as a matter of fact, communication with families, children, and so on. I've felt that the discussion is a little bit focused on, as we've only been traced, that it's not a problem, and then I'd like to make a mistake that it's also a responsibility not to solve it by not accepting the bill. Then we are in exactly the same place that we have been and have criticized, that there is something being done without a warrant. I encourage the memory to consider whether there is more benefit from the failure or failure of the situation. Surely, then, we must always wonder. I just wanted to kill this case just because I know from my own experience, because I've lived in such little communities, it's not a simple matter to solve this. Although there is a desire for things to exist among the communities, even the individuals themselves, to have things in other ways, it is only sadly so that we live in a society that is growing older, and smaller communities are still rather than the major urban area, the nature of the matter or the larger communities. It'll be at least not solved by not doing anything, so I wonder. Councilmen to think about this before votes on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u67	A respectable president. I kind of apologize for talking so late, but I just can't let it pass. I promise I'll be very brief. The reason is that I have a real problem with this matter. I have been opposed for some time because the law has been changed in the nursing home because I have just watched young people live in a nursing home. And despite the awesomeness of equipment and the willingness of employees, social services for young people in nursing homes are particularly difficult. Still, I realize that circumstances vary, and as a result,. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who spoke before me, is often the situation in which this may be the best way. So I'm not against this bill at all. I also think it's important that it be taken up here from the discussion earlier that the European Union agrees with these laws, but it also emphasizes the importance of looking at this group culminatingly. That may primarily be what I want to emphasize. Often the situation is that it is the best solution for the individual, but I still think, unfortunately, that we sometimes have a party in this service here in the capital area that would be more suitable for younger people. I just want to encourage us to look at this whole thing. There is probably every reason to respond to what is being done on the bill, but we also need to think more and more deeply about the individual's needs. This should be an individual service regardless of age.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u68	A respectable president. I recommend a board of members from a health committee to a change in unemployment insurance law, a guarantee of remuneration, a birth and parent's license, a law for parents of chronically ill or severely disabled children, and a law on the rights of living donors for temporary financial support (a contribution to pension fund). As one report on the bill says, their objective is, in fact, their objective. to reduce the impact on the processing of pension rights in those people who temporarily disappear from their employment markets and use their rights to pay off the unemployment insurance fund because of loss of employment, birth holiday reserves, or state funds due to the care of long - suffering and severely disabled children and organ donors. It is necessary to agree with the National Social Association of Iceland and the Office of Employment by increasing in accordance with the agreement the proportion of payments made to individuals of employment insurance, stock stocks and government funds in cases where the parents of long-attracted or severely disabled children, or organ donors who are assigned to pay them on the basis of a remuneration fee to pay on the labour fee. The objective of the bill is also to ensure that the responsibilities of a responsible payment fund due to the demands of pension pay cover the contribution the employer would have made to pay in the pension fund according to the agreement as well as to the part of the salary paid by the remuneration paid by the remuneration fund would not have resulted in the failure of the job owners. The committee set this up and received some reviews, and visitors were called. Among other things, there was a review from the European Union by permission of a president: A member of the Icelandic community believes that the legislation of the bill is a failure to contribute to the improved pension rights of the people who receive pay on the basis of that law, to the level of public pay paid. However, the relationship reiterates a previous review, about the process of considering a bill, that it is not logical that a bill on this subject will be submitted to the General Parliament unless a bill is also provided for the change in employers' general contribution to the pension fund. Back to the committee. The committee discussed the matter and brought in visitors from the National Social Association of Iceland, the Organization for Employment, and the Ministry of Health. There was a rumor from the Allied Union of Iceland, the Coalition of colleges, an emancipation firm, a Union of Icelandic rural society and the Association of Professionals. As mentioned earlier, the goal of the bill, as is further explained in a paper report, is to reduce the impact on the processing of pension rights in those who temporarily disappear from the labour market and use their right to expedite the employment insurance fund for loss of employment, birth failure reserves, or state funds for the care of long - suffering or severely disabled children, or organ transplant. Measures the bill, including for the increases in pension fund production for those who disappear from the sector of the above cause from 8% to 11.5%. The review of the case showed the need for a comprehensive review of total legislation on the payment of pension funds and on the general law on pension. The Commission therefore points to the secretary of finance and economics to speed up employment on that review. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will remain unconvinced. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was away from the hearing. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. Under the heading "Support of History, Kristinsson Kristjánsdóttir Kristoff," "Haddora Mogensen," "Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson," "Aurmund Friðriksson," " Andrés Ingi Jónsson," "A Guðmundur Ingi Bridge Year's Árnadóttir," "Greensson" and Brjánsson of Ignsson." So many were words. I'm not gonna have this any further, I think it's pretty clear. So the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed as it is, but, as they say, I'm going to the highest level. Economic and economic secretary to speed up a general review of the law on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u69	A respectable president. I'm here recommending the Commission's opinion of the change in income tax laws and the legislation on supporting innovation companies, tax deduction of stock markets and tax extractions from innovation companies. The Commission has discussed the situation and has received to the meeting of Stone Örn Steinar Steinarsson from the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, Edda Símonardóttir's daughter, Ingvar J. Rögnvaldsson, Elín Jón Arthursdóttir Ásgeir Tryggvason from the state tax; Bergþóra Halldórsdóttir of the Association of Industrial Science; Sigríður Mogensen from the Association of Industrial and Gunnar DofriÓlafsson and Ísak Einar Rúnarsson from Iceland's Business Council. The Committee also received information on the case from the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, Iceland's Stock Hall, the head of state tax, the Icelandic Film Services Association, the Industrial Association, the Iceland Business Council. The bill suggests adjustments to the regulations on income taxes, No. 90/2003, to extend resources for tax recovery from stock markets and to reduce and simplify conditions that both individuals and communities will need to meet when individuals intend to take advantage of the deduction. There are also adjustments to the law on supporting innovation companies, No. 152/2009, to raise the maximum threshold of tax subsidies due to research and development costs of sponsored enterprises. The reviews received by the Committee as well as by visitors at the Committee meetings were generally described as supporting the progress of the bill. In particular, there were improvements in terms of tax reimbursements from stock markets, which fall into dislocation according to the bill. Based on the condition that a person making use of the option must not be an employee of that group. There was a suggestion that a person could go further and, at the same time, be disfellowshipped for not using the warrant as a member of the relevant organisation or in connection with a member of the family bond, the lack of objective evidence behind that rule. The Commission agrees with this indication and suggests a change in the bill in the event that members of society are allowed to use the resources. A significant debate in the Committee was conducted on why the motivation for the tax pay-off at the stock market was not intended in the current law to encourage employees to buy shares in companies they work for. And that's where even the two of them are. Guided by opinions about protecting employees from the potential misuse of professional drivers. However, interest rates recommend that these conditions be cleared and that the committee agree on their views, as above. A few discussions were made on the Committee that the maximum cost to calculate the recovery of income taxes was increased if an enterprise was used in a financial service. Turned over the discussion, including to see if there was a legitimate motivation or if it was reasonable to aim at the higher roof without asking for a privilege of service. A memo sent by the Ministry stated that the arrangement could be attributed to a Norwegian example and that it was not known to have been criticized. The stakeholders discussed also found that the proposal did not have a meaningful effect. Therefore, the committee will not suggest a change at this time, but it encourages careful monitoring of how these incentives are used to further research, development, and innovation in Icelandic living. According to 2 mg. 17th par. No. No. No. 152/2009, the law fails on December 31, 2019. Despite the obvious fact that government policy is that support for a innovation company is a permanent resource, the directive has come to be critical, including: as this will limit the vision for the enterprises that rely on the resource. In EU Regulation No. 651/ 2014 for general population access, GBER, including The requirement to provide national support in certain areas without the need to seek specific approval from the EFTA Agency. Icelandic legislation must take into account the Regulation, which falls out of force of 2020, which is the reason for the period of law No. 152/2009 was limited. In spite of this, the Committee suggests 2nd. 17th par. The law will pass away. It can be assumed that the government will still be permitted to provide the legal financial support required. If matters are different, appropriate actions must be taken by the lawgiver at the time. The Commission considers this action to be in line with the clear policy of the Icelandic government of supporting innovation, research, and development reflected in the United States. in a budget plan until 2023. The Commission considers this to improve and, in accordance with government policy, to increase support for research and technological development of innovations in Iceland. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes I have considered. Sced Oddný Harðardóttir Hardydótttótttir writes this in advance because she feels that better research had to be done, taking a position on views that would indicate that an employee is available to use the discount form required for B-jord 1. 30. g. a law on income tax on buying stocks in a partner he works for. Smári Mccarthy and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson were absent from the hearing. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. Under this opinion, you'll write for me. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámán, chairman of the Committee, Brynjar the son of Níelsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, with a warning to the people who have been read in the past, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson. A respectable president. This is how the above - mentioned views sound, and I think it is safe to say that there was great loneliness in the Committee on the need to resolve this matter. It was also very interesting to welcome the visitors who came to us and read the reviews received by the committee, but as noted earlier, all the reporters were very positive. Perhaps the counsel received was the best way for us to go further, and the committee considered this, on the other hand, in terms of the rulers. Of course, it is very common for innovation companies and employees to be consulted on investments and also natural for these persons to be interested in investing in innovation companies where they believe in what is taking place. The committee agreed to the adjustment to take it out and expand it so that officials are also permitted to invest. However, it is a remuneration change, or tax recovery, because of research and development. As the above mentioned, there are two roofs, so to speak. So we are going from 300 million to 600 million and from 450 to 900 million. This means that companies can get paid up to a maximum or get paid by taxes at 900 million when the project meets the requirements of being a special research and development project in a innovation company. This means that 600 million of these may be in the house, the work expenses that fall within the house, but the additional 300 million are now expensive. I had personally received, a respectable president, a suggestion that someone thought this was unfair, and maybe it would be unusual for the lawgiver to direct the companies in the direction of buying more services from outside sources. There might even be the wrong motivation. This point was not made to those who submitted the commission. Most of them were eager for us to take care of this, and it would be very important that we do this now for the years, people put a lot of emphasis on it. But as with the nose in my opinion, I think there is good reason to monitor this carefully to know if there is a reason to do so later. Indeed, it is positive and can be positive to encourage companies to go to the university, research, or even foreign institutions. There is a newly created motive for gaining new knowledge, but it may also be working to some extent against them. However, experience with these subsidies so far has been a good and principal criticism for the roof that there is good reason to raise it. We certainly do, and we are part of a government policy to promote innovation. This is so enjoyable that I have not heard anyone say anything against the action presented here. Iceland's business council offers a very interesting review of the situation, and as I say, the whole story is a positive one. There's a good review of where Iceland is working today on expenses for research and development, and it's evidence that we're lower than any other North countries. The policy has long been set in both Iceland and other European countries that the cost of research and development is 3.5% of GDP. Sadly, we are somewhere around 2% today and therefore have quite a distance to land. I believe, more dignified President, this is one of the measures that could truly help us in these matters and be a real motivation. We can hear it from the companies. We can see in the Ministry memo that the companies are actually taking advantage of this. Of course, it's just all the biggest companies in the world that need the roof to be lifted. But it is also very important for us to stay in this important innovation firm here, since competition for the location of such enterprises is high and many other countries offer similar motivations, even making the roof a higher or more remuneration rate. However, there are also certain rules in the European Union, as referred to in the preceding article, about how far government grants are going. Of course, it always has to be within a particular frame. To this, I think we're on a very good journey in these matters, but I also believe that this journey is not finished at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u70	Mr. President. In principle, I wanted to come here and say that I agree with this matter. Unfortunately, I did not get to be present for the release of a committee, but I would have agreed on the committee's opinion, though in advance. Harðardóttir Of course, with regard to other factors, I'm concerned only with the welfare of the state. Though it is probably true that she can maintain the way she has been, that is not clear. There's something to be taken care of, and there's something to be recorded, perhaps at the scene of the EEA. Then it is also a question of whether the rules of government support are not too perfunctory in the light of experience. The myth that the state is a small part in innovation, or it should not come at that point, is basically wrong if you look to it. There are, of course, competitive reasons both within the country and in the EEA and even beyond that need to be looked into. I think there's good reason to try to find some sort of new balance on this approach in the public welfare department. There must be a way to support innovation. Another factor is that when we look at the approach to having these reimbursements, it is very positive that we are about to double the maximum in this way, but at the same time, it is a question whether there may be other actions and perhaps even less expensive, which could better help the working of innovation companies and thus, in fact, be more efficient. Then I look mainly to Sweden and Switzerland, the countries that have achieved the most. Sweden does not have such reimbursement as do we have in Iceland, although it is a common practice. Since then, Sweden has mainly used other methods. I think there is good reason why we try to look a little wide above the field, taking into account technical issues and restrictions that could cause companies in research and development of various types of work, reduce writing loads as an example, promote competitive funds and other activities. Either way, we need to watch this party. It is extremely important and may become one of the most important features of our economy. There is evidence that he already is. This should be at least After growing if we take good care of it. I'd like us to go over this group in a more general way, look at the methods used in the countries that are best used, and then I look first to Sweden, while other countries also have interesting approaches. If we could follow in their footsteps, we would do so in a positive way. Other than that, as I say, I agree with the findings of the committee this time. I think, as mentioned earlier, we should watch this open in the future, maybe after the year, but in the meantime, it's just great that it's gonna get there. Let's accept this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u71	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this bill and thank you. A senator for reviewing the economic and business committees' opinions. This, and especially, that the roof for research and development has been a government policy for several years, increasing support for research and technological development of innovations in Iceland. The increase in these reference levels is really an important step. The support and current systems have contributed to substantial interest in corporate research and development in recent years. The independent group that has been involved in this ministry has increased the amount from 100 million on the one hand and 150 million in the event of a significant amount of service. It was elevated in 2016 to 300 million and, on the other hand, 450 million, and this bill is still much longer, and today it is doubled to 600 million and 900 million, respectively. While the increase in reference height is supported as an spending fund, of course, the overall impact is what we need to consider. Because of these measures, they are extremely positive. The aim is basically to promote a wide range of employment practices, increase in employment, increase in prosperity, increase in money costs, and, of course, to increase the support of Icelandic employment and the valuable things we have in the country. It is desirable to increase investments for research and development in Iceland. For example, we have been submers of other northern countries, but thus we are further promoting research and development. This bill is a major factor in promoting innovation and the intelligent industry in Iceland. I think our innovation policy, which is working on the opposite side, is taking on enormous importance and good work, is just taking a look at it in a larger context, looking at the whole area, where we can do better, and how we can attract our investment in jobs that turn toward innovation because it is, of course, the very essence of the future. All countries are looking for ways to attract this investment. It's really nice to see the progress of these past few years. Taxic catalyses have created a more favorable environment for management. The resources have already contributed to high growth in research and development in a number of enterprises in recent years. I look forward to working in the Neo-creation policy and molding the prospect of the future that we want in this category. By promoting it, we contribute not only to varied employment but especially to a far greater prosperity and support for the future valuables.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u72	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes to the bill in terms of changes in income taxes and other laws (required arrangements) on deck. 623. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by experts from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, from the customs manager and the head of the state tax. The bill is suggested to collect public pay from the customs manager to the governor of the tax. The change aims to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of tax management, the end of economics and simplicity, by having pressures and by collecting public remuneration in one hand. The government tax manager's review of the bill shows that an opportunity for convenience is predictable. The value of the bill is based on January 1, 2019. In agreement with the head of the state tax and toll manager, the Ministry has suggested that a change in the set-up of the bill will be made in order for the legislation to be implemented on May 1, 2018, as well as the provision of equipment and appropriate bank accounts for the customs manager to be transferred to the government tax manager for the change. The committee agrees with this and proposes a adjustment in this regard as well as the corresponding changes in the provisional principle of the bill. According to the above, the Committee suggests changes to the bill included in this committee party. Smári Mccarthy and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson were absent from the hearing. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. Under certain writings of him that stands here, Óli Kárason, and why. The members of the assembly, Chemur the son of Þorsteinn, Brabbur the Víglundsson of Níelsson, the daughter of Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Harðardóttir G. Hardydour, the daughter of Ólafur, the Þór of Gunnarsson, and A Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u73	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize the social security law, which is about to become a child's pension. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by guests from the Lion Heart, the Children's Agent, the State Insurance Office and the Union of Iceland. There were also comments from the Children's Heart, the National Socialist Association of Iceland, Ragnheiður Elín Garðarsdóttir, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the government insurance agency and the office of children's emissaries. With the bill, government insurance agencies are authorized to make a special contribution on the basis of expenses at the baptism of a child, bar mitzvahing, cleaning, disease, burial, or for other special reasons. The warrant is restricted to payments for children who are paid child - care pensions. 1.mg. 20. Act on social security. The bill is intended to be met by a group of children, who because of special circumstances do not have the support of two parents. In writing reviews to the Committee, it came up with the view to the range of the standard of the arrangement as set out in 2 mgr. 1st par. The bill would be more clear than a report would lead to being the goal of the bill. In particular, 2 mg. 1st par. that it is permitted only to make a special donation. 1.mg. because of children paid children are children's pensions. For example, it would be permitted to make a special contribution on account of children of the disability pensioner, sensibilities, and those who sit in custody or serve in prison, as a child's pension is paid with them, despite the fact that a child has two prospective parents. Then, too, criticism of that requirement was found in the 20th chapter. law on social security that either the parents of a child or the baby itself had to have lived here at least three final years before the application for child-creature. Compared to comparator, the clinical trial population was It should be noted that in the current health insurance legislation, only about a six-month residence in Iceland is required. The report on the bill suggests that in Iceland there are about 900 children who have lost a parent, but it is stated that single parents can apply for child support if a father's child is not possible, because of special circumstances. The bill is intended to be met by this group of children and single parents who are unable to attend special donations to a parent's cohesion on the basis of 60th. baby law. The committee agrees that in the present form the bill reaches a large group of parents. The National Insurance Institute of Iceland has estimated that the cost of making special donations according to the bill due to the 900 children in Iceland who have lost their parent is between 10 and 20 million. K. every year. So the committee suggests the wording of 2 mg. 1st par. the bill will be changed to include only instances where one candidate carries the weight of a child's forward. In addition, the Commission's amendment makes clear under the circumstances under which a donation is permitted. 1.mg. 1st par. In particular, it is suggested that there is only a option for either parent, child unfathered, or mother to be found unattainable because of special or unusual circumstances. The wording is based on a change of 4 mg. 20. Act on social security, by law No. 107/2016, where children's pension was authorized in such a situation. In a bill paper that turned into law No. 107/2016 says that if a father has had a child with localist assistance outside Iceland and in cases where a single person has been granted permission for the adoption of a child in accordance with local practice, the requirement is to be made. 4 mg. 2.g. No. 130/1999. The committee suggests that, in similar cases, fathers have the right to make a contribution on the basis of special expenditures, and they bear only the weight of a child's progress. It has been noted in the Committee that the bill refers only to 1 mg. 20. Act on social security, but not up to 20. All of it. Hence, this law does not include children who are unfathered, or if a mother does not enjoy it because of special or unusual circumstances, and a pension is paid on the basis of a 4. 20. Act on social security. The same group of children is in the position that only one producer is in supply at all costs for special expenditures. Sets up the committee for 2nd. 1st par. The bill is referred to Article 20. The rest of the law, to meet this group. The Commission believes that based on the subject of the bill, there is no basis for reevaluating the social security legislation on the right to child support its treatment. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: ▪2. mg 1st par. put it this way: Implementation 1.mg. is only allowed to pay for children paid at the hospital. 20. and either parents are left, a child remains unheeded, or a mother does not enjoy because of special or unusual circumstances. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent from the case, but literature was considered to be in accordance with clearance at 4 mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. Others snarl. Councilmen who sign this opinion are Director Halldóra Mogensen, Director Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoff, who stands here and is chairman of the case, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrándóttir, Brjánsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristjánsson, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason, as stated earlier. This bill appeared a few years ago and has been re moved several times. It would be a pleasure if this were to be accepted, for there are 900 children who are in the situation that there are only one parent who is forwarding. It's a group that falls a little apart in the system. It's just a sweet and obliged thing to do here, hoping they'll get approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-10-45.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the sleazy transfer of a committee study on bill to legalize changes to social security laws. I'm not the lucky guy being a messenger on this bill, but I'm totally into it, as I'm on the committee as a member of a welfare committee. The bill, this change, is simple and clear and fair. Transporters believe that the children of single - parent families are divided by whether both parents or others are alive. By doing this, we are working even more closely to fulfill the United Nations Children's Covenant, which is good. Then we're working against discrimination, but in our fine constitution - a constitution that we want to change and gain new ones - it is stated in 65. g. that discrimination is not appropriate, that we should follow an order of 90. I sure hope so, like hell. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir said that the bill will receive good and understanding coverage in the council until the end and eventually become a law. But all of this costs money, and we hope to find ways to finance it. These are not very high sums, but there are 900 children who could be much better if we put this into effect.
