ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u1	The president is undeniably that option, but as soon as it is necessary to comment on an event that was dealt with on the night of Wednesday, November 28th. It has been publicized that a group of members of two panels sat in a local restaurant near the Assembly Hall during a meeting on Tuesday night of November 20, 2000. discussed in public, so that widespread and normal scandals have been aroused. A word wording that appears to have been true is undefeated and unforgivable. More important, it is completely undefeated and out of harmony with modern attitudes that were discussed with women and women in politics as well as those who were disabled and queer. In modern times, it is a long time and the democratic organization vital to eliminate all such forms of civilization from politics, and that is where all of us have to do our part. The president considers the credibility of the Generals, who, of course, are not responsible for the inconsistencies of senators outside the General Assembly Hall but for themselves, still agree to the seriousness of the matter. The president promises that it will be done. The president also wishes, as well as at this moment, to beg other members of the council than those involved, and especially to them, and to other individuals named as well as their caregivers. I want to apologize to our staff, our women, our disabled, queer people and our people. The president would like to inform us that the matter has already been brought into operation by the presiding committee. At a meeting earlier today, the committee discussed the matter and decided to adopt it as a possible protocol and also to seek the opinion of a consultant committee, such as Article 16. Code. The Presidency Protocol will be made public at this point. In other respects, the President's hope, regardless of the fact that we can do our job and fulfill our responsibilities most undistracted by that unfortunate event. Life continues, and so does the work of the Allied Icelanders. The president asks that we protect ourselves and the nation from discussions about this otherwise here at the Assembly Hall at this time. According to the Order, the Order, and the Council's Government, this kind of case is under the presidency committee, where the matter is already on schedule, as previously stated. Finally, the president would like to inform us that this statement is made after agreeing with the presidents of all councils.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u2	Today, on Monday, December 3, a letter from Bragi Sveinsson wrote that he could not do any congregational work in the near future: ▪ Since I have decided for my personal reasons to accept pay free from council service for an indefinite period of time, I ask that the 1st Keeper of the Central Party in the Southwestern District, Óskarsdóttir María Wishasdóttir, take over my seat at the General Assembly. Sincerely, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson 6th. Southwestern District. Also wrote a letter from Bergþór Ólason that he could not attend next week, dated December 3, 2018: ▪ Since I have decided for my personal reasons to accept pay free from council service for an indefinite period of time, I pray that the 1st Keeper of the Central Party in the NorthwesternHR, Jón Þór Þorvaldsson, will take over while I sit at the General Assembly. Sincerely, Bergþór Ólason, 4th. Northwestern standard.How can I help you? So today, on Monday, December 3, we are taking our place at the General Assembly, which was for Una María Óskarsdóttir and Jón Þór Þorvaldsson. They have previously taken their seats at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u3	Then came the president earlier today, on Monday, December 3, as follows: Since today, I have decided to serve as an outside body member at the General Assembly. Ísleifsson Isleusunsson, 10th. Reykjavík District of the north, has decided to cooperate as independent members of Parliament and wishes that our solidarity be seen in the activities of the General Assembly. Sincerely, Karl Gauti Hjaltason 8th yrs District of the South And another letter: Since that day, I have decided to serve as a noncombatant member at the General Assembly. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the President and the presidents of the Parliament for their pleasant cooperation. Me and Karl Gauti Hjaltason, 8th. The Southern District has decided to cooperate as independent noncombatant members of Congress and wishes to be considered in the work of the Generals. Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isleus, Tenth. Reykjavík Precinct North,◯
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u4	Borist has announced a change in the administration of the group of Philly's people so that Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson becomes president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u5	Borist's letter from Alfreðsdóttir Alfred's daughter says she can't attend next week. Just as was announced on the General Assembly, Alex B. Stefánsson, a deputy of the southern Prosecution Party's list, served at the General Assembly as a substitute for her on Thursday, November 29. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u6	The President would like to report a change in the work programme adopted at a meeting of the Presidency and members of Congress this morning, i.e. to name a date that was scheduled for a bank. Friday, December 7, falls down and will be replaced with a meeting meeting date.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u7	By letter, dated November 28, 2018, the president has requested to write to the budget board that it cover the publication of Government Review, carried out the budget of January ◯ June 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u8	The president considers an agreement that may last longer for a meeting than the Senate dictates, i.e. until the discussion of the 3rd session is complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u9	Borist has a letter from the health secretary, two letters from the Environment and Resource Minister and three letters from the Foreign Minister requesting every time to give written answers to questions that can be seen on the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u10	The president is particularly pleased to mention before going to the meetings for an open house on Saturday, December 1. The attendance and the presentation that were held in the house that day were spectacular. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Subjects for the participation in that event and how many saw fit to be in the house to welcome visitors and converse with them. About 2,700 people came to the house on December 1, and all guests were well pleased. I'd also like to use this opportunity to thank the staff of the Generals who were here in custody and to help with that event in the house as well as those who prepared the house for the opening and set up the show and photos. It is good for us generals to be thus reminded of how concerned the public is about the International Assembly Hall and the old institution we all work for. I repeat, thank you, the day turned out to be the best, happy day from start to finish.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u11	To answer, Prime Minister, financial and economic minister, health minister, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, environmental and resource ministers, foreign ministers, educational and cultural ministers and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u12	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Minister. The question is very simple: What do we do now? We all share the responsibility that the International Parliament is functional and can benefit the nation, that we are people who respect their work, and the people who chose us, but especially that people can respect us. That's what we need to do. to adopt values presented at the 2010 National Meeting, honesty, human rights, equality, responsibility, and respect. I haven't come up here in a talk chair to shed light on political differences between parties or to point out what seems more acceptable to me than to the government of the country. Of course, we must be able to have a direct discussion about this. But today I believe that it is necessary that we build bridges between those who really want to change culture, resist human contempt, woman contempt, and prejudice. I think it's the highest. A prime minister can play a key role in the conversation that must take place here. She has the credibility that it takes, and I trust her to do it. I know, Mr. President, that I have quoted several times in the government covenant to form a picture that doesn't always follow words. But here today, I would like to mention it sincerely because I believe it includes an important declaration of the cooperation that must take place between people in order to get us out of the difficult conditions we are today. Mr. President. We in the United States are willing to make a considerable effort to achieve this difficult task together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry is about how we as members of the Parliament can share in the task of protecting the values we would like to identify our community. We celebrated the 100th anniversary of the sovereignty this weekend. I believe that it was a good opportunity to reflect on the values we want to be guided by society. Then I'd like to mention values such as democracy, diversity, and respect for the rights of all. The comment that has been given in recent times was a sad subject, characterized by a woman's contempt and prejudice toward various groups, whether queer people, disabled people, or other groups. Such words are soon inaccessible and unforgivable. But now it's a question of why. Senator: What do we do now? I think it's very important that we, as members of the Parliament, have established a moral code, which I think is good. I think it is very important that the prime committee decided to handle the case in the way it has done, and the statement will be published below, to continue leading the case, and to summon the advisers of the ethic committee that I and the Council have decided to appoint. You see, it is of utmost importance that the Council responds, values the processes that we have made of ourselves, and accepts the rules of conduct that we personally have set for discussion, and how we can make sure that they will be better followed in the future. I believe all of this will show us that we are now responsible for reviewing those rules, for discussing them in our group, and for making sure that we can concoct this important meeting for society back in honor and respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u14	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers very much for the answer, and I agree. We've got a big job to do. The last days have had a tremendous impact on us, an open wound that needs healing. I would like to state that I trust the president, the Presidency Committee, and the ethic board very well for the work they are doing. But we also need to sit down here together and discuss how this affects members of Congress, the whole political system, the sex equal struggles, the battle between queers and disableds, how we can ensure that we, as members of Congress, can continue to work with the national interests as a guide, how we can increase the confidence and respect of the council again. I think, Mr. President, we have to take this role seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u15	Mr. President. I have felt that there is a great deal of agreement here at the council that it is important to deal strongly with such issues. I'm glad that the prime committee reached the conclusion we were introduced earlier in the words of the Council's president. It is a wonderful challenge for all of us, and we have often discussed it in this hall, how we can build trust in politics and the Generals. This incident is especially tragic, since we were seeing the confidence cleared up in the routine tests of trust in the Generals. But then I want to say that, of course, we're all here to live up to our convictions, and each of us is also responsible for his own actions. We must make it a requirement as soon as we establish a moral code that each of us goes over that code, taking responsibility for our own behavior, whether we are in public service or wherever we are in the public room, because we are always elected agents, no matter where we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u16	A respectable president. Yes, the situation is bleak, but at the same time it does not mean to let down the lump. We persevere in our work, coping with the work ahead of us. I've personally had my share of all this, both as an individual and as an invalid. This does not change the fact that I am here in unprepared inquiry to continue the Senate work. I want to direct an unsubstantiated inquiry to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. I've been very concerned about the so-called Bank Office of the State. I requested the written answer to financial and economic ministers in my day on that matter. The bank administration operates according to law No. 88/2009, which took place on August 20, that same year. I'm going to quote 9. g., which says: The ceremony will have completed no later - I repeat: no later -- 0 - 5 years after it is set in motion and then will be dropped. There is no difference, according to all that I have learned in law, that it takes away from all doubt, this law, according to the words. So on August 20, 2014, this institution had no legitimate value at all. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: What about all the initiatives that were made while this institution, the government's Bank Office, worked here with no legal rights? How can you handle it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to start by reviewing that a few years ago I introduced to the council a proposal to change the arrangement of these matters, which would include the establishment of a kind of work unit for the Ministry of Economics and Economics in place of the Agency. The matter was discussed here at the council, and it appeared to each of us. I guess we can say that on a committee, people came to the conclusion that they wanted to stay in that arrangement. There was an interpretation at the council at the time that the Agency would have to come to an adjustment, not on the basis of this law, but on the basis of a new law, a change of law. On this basis the Agency has been working since this time. But now I have a new bill. That bill is merely about the provisional principle, and it really brings down. The text that was read from the current law is primarily evidence that during the period when financial companies had to be refurbished after the collapse, they did not see that the State would eventually become a possession of the object under which it was assigned. Therefore, it would be no reason to set up a special agency to hold the property for a limited period of time. There is the historical explanation for this. In spite of this wording in the law, the Agency has been regarded as being put down only by a new decision. But now we have a bill to cancel it, which has run its course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Budget and economic secretary for the answer. So that I only refer to basic administrative rights, a so-called legal rule, it simply says that governments can't do anything, no decisions can make, unless there is a clear legal warrant. It doesn't matter what you're talking about, what reports are coming up, and what will be there, provided that it is not clearly stated in the current court. So I'd like to reiterate the question, What about the lawyers who were made in the state's name since the legal right to this institution fell down on August 20, 2014, and up to today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u19	A respectable president. Clearly, the law does not replace the law itself. The law is in effect, the law doesn't have a limited length of time. In other words, the directive describes plans to ensure that the role of the Agency should be completed within the age of five. But it didn't work out. The Agency still lives, and it's called here on a regular basis to the council for written and advised, to give reviews. She does her work as men know, and the law is in effect. However, this provision remains to be followed by this historical explanation. So I answer directly to the question: I believe that the projects the Agency performs are legitimate and on the basis of the laws that are in effect, despite this expression in the law. [[The president calls.]] But it is right to bring it up better with the bill being presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u20	Mr. President. Thank you so much for the declaration of our chairman at the beginning of a council meeting. I trust that he would be able to honor the council, respect and, especially, a workaholic. The political, Mr. President, is alive and must continue, and especially our democratic hold on to government opposition. It is of utmost importance to me when the council is awaiting a case involving consumer rights and competition and ensures that the most important international agreement that we Icelanders have undergone is that it will not be thrown into confusion or uncertainty. I'm talking about the EEA deal that's done amazing things for the homes of the country and the families. It is important that society as a whole, individuals as an enterprise, sees that they can continue, that they are not threatened by apparent conflicts within the Independence Party. It is true that when you read the magazines and listen to interviews, you will notice that individual senators and as well as Ministers will most likely vote against the third energy package when entering the council. I must say, on my death I had hoped, but not because the Independence Party would begin to undermine the EEA community. This is a very serious matter. It's a political matter. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity in unsubstantiated inquiries and make two very simple ideas, which I hope will be answered because it has been a foreign thing that simple questions have not been answered. The first question is to the highest. Secretary of State: When will he provide the third energy package for the council? When? It should be possible to answer that question. And the second question is, "Well, the highest. " A minister of the State will promote the removal of the third energy pack's administrative notice?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u21	A respectable president. Hv. A senator makes the publicity of the EEA deal, which I think is very good. I think it's very important that we discuss the EEA deal, and that's why I put in even. starting a group led by Björn Bjarnason's son, who clearly reviews our experiences with the contracts and benefits and flaws. As important as it is, and we need to continue to care for our interests in this cooperation as well as in everything else, it was sadly ill when we went into adaptation discussions with the EU, but let's hope that we did not have a fault. Also, there have been a lot of false updates in the EEA Convention. It's become a very special problem. Hv. A senator knows this, those who have been most upset with their will to walk in the European Union have not stopped speaking it down. We are in a strange position when those who oppose us in the EU have come to believe the main points and are using them in the wrong direction, especially in the discussion, since they are many, though not all, even speaking about our leaving the EEA community. It's a very serious situation, and she's infected with a lot of stuff. There is a great deal of perturbing comments and concerns about the third energy package, which is important to answer objectively with reason and to follow through accurately. That's exactly what we're doing in the government. Similarly, it is important not to have any mistaken beliefs about the EEA agreement or the third energy package. Hv. A senator knows that it's in the Senate this spring, and that's what we're working on and have been lying around for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u22	Mr. President. Two questions, one pretty much answered, maybe in spring. The Government Constitution has a third energy package in February. Should we stick to February or not? What does spring mean? February is winter. What do they mean? Minister? Can he say, "Yes, I will put myself on the hold that a dramatic warning will be lifted? " Within the armed conflict between the Independence Party, we begin to pay dearly. That's where the uncertainty is. We've spoken very clearly in the exorbitant setting. We will not use this case, which would indeed be tempting, as some have said, to play with the idea of being torn apart by the government, because it is important for the homes, families in the country, competitiveness, and consumers in the country. We have the guts to say, "Yes, we're ready to support this deal. " But what threatens the agreement is uncertain from the ranks of the government, especially the Independence Party. I agree with what one superintendent said. He calls for political leadership on the case, and it's screaming that they lack political leadership over the EEA Convention, with regard to the third energy package. [[The president calls.]] Uncertainty comes from the Independence Party. It's sad, and I'm still waiting for the answer. Is he going to lift controlled warnings from the third energy package? It's a simple question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u23	A respectable president. Then they just threw the mask. Of course it is. A senator does not use this case in any political raw game. Of course not! Who can think of that? Who had this idea? No, Mr. Honorable President, I beg you. Senator to hold back a little bit. This is big. This is the EEA contract. I think that when all responsible governments get objective comments, the worries of people about something that has to do with the deal, they take a special look at that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u24	Shouldn't we listen to...?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u25	Then there may be some inside. Government officials cannot hold back, and they need to try to create some political raw card from this and say that it's one of the within-class issues of the Independence Party, and that's just the way it is. It will not disturb our calmness. What we do and have already said is simply this: The comments that have been made will be considered. If there is something that we especially need to look at about this or another introduction, we will see what we need to do to minimize any danger that may exist. [[The president calls.]] That's the kind of work we're doing, and we're letting it go. Senators in the government position, as good and fun as they are, do not interfere with our work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u26	Uncertain... The Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u27	Mr. President. I have one question at first, and it's like, "To the highest. " Financial and economic secretary Bjarni Benediktsson meeting, conversation or any kind of conversation, formally or informally, with difficulty. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sónsson where Geir H. Haardes, an ambassador in the United States, was discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u28	A respectable president. I had a lot of meetings with a bang. Senator and former secretary of state on the various matters. At one of the meetings I was sitting with him, he announced to me that he had decided to appoint ambassador Geir H. Haardeur. He felt that it was appropriate, since it was the former chairman of my party, so I rejoiced.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Then comes the second question: Is anything to the highest? A minister knows or suspect who might have given a given. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson indicated the expectations of an ambassador's office on the part of the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u30	The short answer to this is no. The general answer is that. A senator is a former secretary of state. Many such have ended up in foreign service somewhere. One is in the international organization today. That woman was once president of the United States. Others have been ambassadors. Group president of the United States I remember sitting as ambassador in Washington. So nothing's happened to our meetings yet. A senator who has a special reason for this. He may have some expectations in view of his experience so that such things can happen in the future, but that is not on the basis of any promises he has made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u31	Mr. President. We're here to vote for hunting fees. Hunting costs have been in the discussion for a long time, and it has been a long time spent trying to get them to the best of its time in real life. It has now been proposed to provide information on the value of each species from Fish Office and from tax returns from commercial companies to the government tax manager. The use of fishing costs at any time is based on the information provided by the tax manager and is as close as possible to an actual and best-growing period. I think we're in a really good place. This methodology has been developed since 2012. I think we can be very happy just as a nation collecting resources from the projection in a way that these methodologies and calculators offer, so I support my complete mind that it will be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u32	Mr. President. The bill here on the pressures of hunting fees reflects what I believe there was a great deal of solidarity in the council, i.e. bringing the pressures of hunting costs closer in time and making sure it stays alive. It is, in fact, the ideologies that have been involved in the debate since the date of the special fishing fee in 2012. However, it has been held in the discussion and not all that I believe is valid. I must recall that if we were still to make up the arrangement adopted in 2012, the volume of hunting fees would be 4.5 billion, since the special fishing fee set up in the history of the government of left green and Conspiracy was very sensitive to the change in the land. Black in white, fishing costs reflect the survival of the time. The arrangement here is being proposed, in the bill at the highest level. However, a marine and agricultural minister has submitted, showing that a substantial effort has been made to find a fair way of ensuring that the nation receives a fair share from its resource, a 33% currency. [[The president calls.]] I hope this will be a step forward in these matters that have been so controversial here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u33	Mr. President. For the second time, we pay for this year's fishing fees in disagreements and without proper consultations in its efforts. Piranha are opposed to this bill, including because of lack of consultation, but also because it makes it easier for money to make profits from fishing to work. Despite repeated warnings, nothing has been done to fix the back door. These conditions are competitive, and they do not lead to increased trust in this industry. So we vote against the bill. We have a paradox against that, but to some extent, we're going to pass on the motions of the greater portion that we think is doing this a little better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u34	Mr. President. We now vote for a hunting bill. It is also a deduction proposal and an adjustment form. In the news it is mostly, and I quote until the morning itself, to the last year, i.e. 2017, a record - year - long investment in Icelandic fishing roads. Second place says: "Two ships for extension, two for building. " It's a nice fishing road. There's nothing to lower hunting costs. We're supposed to try to get a better political reconciliation on this matter. We are to dismiss the case, and we should give ourselves time, year, or year, to settle matters better. There is nothing in this case that needs to be corrected now. Let's wait and do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u35	Mr. President. The bill we vote for is, in some respects, fine, as if to return to the thought that the role of the law is to define the part of the value in the fishing road that is due to the resource and to calculate the nation's share in the merit of the added value, although that definition is not without criticism. However, the bill that we vote for today does not answer the basic question, the question of righteousness we have dealt with for years, which is: What is the legitimate claim of the nation's interest in the resource? This bill strongly suggests that fishing costs reduce marine investments, reduce technical progress, compromise competitiveness, landlands, and generally fail to destroy virtually every fishing road. These standards are not valid, and perhaps least on that day, when the director of the largest fishing business in the country says that they do not have fish in the sea. So I won't vote with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u36	Mr. President. We in the United States violate this bill and want it dismissed and to try to settle the matter better. The only thing that's going to happen is that the fishing fee, not 17 billion, as the majority of it suggests, pays 10 to 12 billion dollars in 2019. And she can handle it. You see, there is much more change in the bill than the administrative body wants to be. As an example, the change in goal is made. She's a few, though, and she's unexplained. It seems incorrect that the proportion of resource material contains the same condition and implies that it is normal. The balance of the fish industry's profits in the decision of fishing costs is delayed, thus building incentives for the development of goods, if possible, to bring profits into practice, thus affecting the reduction of the fishing costs. The fixed cost is a sledgehammer, so that something is mentioned to this bill that is unacceptable. We resist it, and we encourage it to be dismissed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u37	A respectable president. Following are the votes for hunting fees. This is necessary because at this time of the year, the current fishing bill falls down, but we all agree to go fishing next year. We can't afford to let it go. But in this bill, there's even one. Changing the management of hunting fees with the aim of reducing the delay in the management of information. I believe that the bill means that fishing costs will be more beneficial and that the criteria for this charge reflect information that is closer to time based on government taxpayer information, as well as the reports from Fishing Room on GDP. The changes made to a greater part of the employment committee are about to take care of smaller and medium-sized groups by further strengthening the holiday target. Has the bill been very well discussed in a committee that brought in a number of visitors and reviewed the matter, as well as five references to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u38	Madam President. We are here with one of the government's priorities for discussion, a case that had caused great controversy, not just here at the Senate Hall, but among the people of all nations, and not for dishonor. Privately, a group of council members are restorationed to the red button in this case. However, there is still hope if the members of this hall uphold their convictions and guarantees, at least by agreeing with the change proposal, that by these changes in hunting costs now the nation's right to the wealth that lives in the sea will be guaranteed. By agreeing that this is a payment for temporary use, the damage is certainly less than unchanged. Then there's still hope.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u39	V.E.G. President. This is where we pay a vote on a resource bill. I'm of that opinion, and I've told the Committee magazine that this is a step in the right direction, but I would've wanted to go further. When I say step in the right direction, I mean, the calculation is closer in time. Fishing industry is taken out, and the calculation has arrived at the head of the tax. Similarly, the bill says that species with very little value and low value are taken out of parentheses. That is 100 million. K. for each species of value, covered. But I would have wanted to go further and go to 150 million. K. the number of other species would have come in, and the evaporation would be reduced. Besides, it would have had to be taken out of clovers. It's usually given within the land, on the islands, and on the land. But this is a step in the right direction and I vote according to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u40	A respectable president. This is characteristic of the discussion that has taken place on this bill that most people who have considered want to go further. They just don't agree on which direction to walk. On average, though, I think those who brought up the matter are quite content with the main element, i.e. that there is a simplicity of the existing opaque system for the pressures of today's hunting fees. This is more efficient, the application is being moved towards time, and it is more consistent with the outcome of this article, with the largest wishes ever made. In the case of most members of Parliament during a recent week, it was reported that there is a great improvement from what has been going on. So I look at the issues we're dealing with and have been working on over the past few days to make a big improvement in the work of the marine road in Iceland, and will bring us back to a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u41	Mr. President. We're here to settle the highest priority of the Iceland government, i.e. reduction of fishing costs next year to as many as 5 billion. This is government priority. This is the fact, no matter what. Ministers say, and dare not at the same time face your own course or ideal. It is not even an attempt to respect the government covenant, one of the first decisions made by the government covenant, to discuss a conversation. For all this reconciliation rests only on the government's side. It's hard to see this progressive reduction. The document city built by the government was not for homes in the country; it wasn't for older citizens; it wasn't about disability. The S.H.I.E.L.L.P.D. was about the big estate and her friends. We will vote against this bill and sit next to the regulations that are to some extent improved. But, overall, this case is a big thing to miss for the entire government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u42	A respectable president. The fishing grounds in the sea are the share of the nation, as shown in Article 1. legal about the control of fishing. Here we are voting on which system we are going to use to collect reasonable interest on the nation for the use of that resource. The system suggested here is transparent and simple. That's the advantage that's been waiting a long time, that it's as close to the real time as it can be. And it's swinging after the survival of the factory. It is difficult to estimate the amount of money, except for a year or so at a time, but because the price will fluctuate, the nation will gain more money in the form of higher resources when it is good. If you look at the methods that have been used in recent years, you will have either 0K, 2.5 billion in 2020, if you would use a unchanged system, or if the left control system from 2012 was used: 4.7 billion. That is why it is very good for us to establish this reciprocation so that it becomes quite clear that the nation will always gain a reasonable amount of money for the use of its resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u43	Mr. President. We've been talking about our reputation and will be for some time. However, respect involves not only speaking well of people and thinking about them but also the exchange of economic advantages so that we can give everyone the opportunity to live with dignity and a decent life. But we have 4 billion fishing costs down here. And that's what the big thing gets for a brother. That's what the Supreme One said. But the fact is that those who have little in the community are also very sensitive to how we employ and how we manage our resources. So I suggest, and the Conspiracy, with the Piranha and the Archipelago, that this case be dismissed, that we honor the nation by the time we spend the next year to make further peace in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u44	Mr. President. We in the Pirates, the Conspiracy, the Revolution and the Gang will suggest that this case be dismissed. As far as Pirata and I are concerned, it is because the bill does not take into account the share of the money that the nation shares in the resource use and, in fact, rejects the unsound requirement that we take over the discussion, just in agreement and agreement, which share it should have. This bill doesn't answer it and upset it. Similarly, this bill does not accept the basic requirement that the use rights of the resource be of no value unless the nation, as shown in the new constitution. So we suggest that the case be dismissed and that we work on a better reconciliation, not by some mere conversational talk, but that we are included here in any group we come to make this important bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u45	A respectable president. This is my intention to disqualify a proposal. The bill was announced as early as spring during a discussion on the fishing bill of the trade committee. It has been a long time before that current fishing legislation expires at the end of the fishing season and was extended to the end of the year. The bill has been successfully treated by a professional health committee. She has been discussing it for two months, hosting 11 meetings, receiving 100 visitors. I traveled all over the country and had a conversation with the seabed, the people who live and are moved by these trades. [[The president calls.]] So it's in all ways a highly introduced bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u46	Mr. President. I think it's a very irresponsible matter to dismiss this case. This case has been given extensive publicity to a professional health committee for more than two months. The committee has brought in a number of visitors and discussed the matter at 11 meetings. There have been extensive discussions of this with visitors who came before the committee and were received up to 50 reviews. I believe that we are in the place where it would be most irresponsible to continue to have uncertainty in these matters and to base on the current set of high-level fishing fees, such as the fluctuations that would be if they were still the same. The next year, hunting would be over 12 billion, but in the following year there would be more than 2 billion. Once we've got this good thing in our hands, and we've covered it in detail, I think we should take care of it and take it right here and now, but don't drag our feet again, because it's done very well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u47	V.E.G. President. I'll say yes to this. It's important to listen to all the visitors who came to the committee. It was marked with everyone, really - the government tax manager spoke of uncertainty, not too much transparency, he was not quite sure how to fix it up. The fishermen were extremely frightened, and they repeatedly drew the price of fishing directly and indirectly to the pay of sailors. There is also the fear that many people might have of setting up as high as possible the cost of their work so that they would be reduced to the loss of their fishing costs. So there are many comments and arguments that recommend that the suggestions we make here, four categories, be accepted. We can settle this. We can handle the matter of time, but let's get it over with, the rest, the price tag, in terms of more than ever. You can catch it if you put forth effort. Let us give this year so that peace and quiet will prevail. We're here to make peace with you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u48	The President's got some respect for the fact that there's someone playing at the clock at the table, the light. It is not to be taken that members of Parliament speak beyond the time when red light is on fire.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u49	President. I would especially like to propose to members of the applicant Party and the left greens who have been wanting to, with the direction of these classes, discuss temporary arrangements. This is not to say the exact agreement. It is simply to explain what is going on with the fishing fee. It is very common in the law that calls for a price to be said about the cost. We are underlining that fishing costs are temporary use of the nation's common fish resources. We are simply highlighting the nation's interests in this changing arrangement and its proposed changes. That is why I specifically ask the senators of the House of Booths and the left greener to join us. This is a huge interest in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u50	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u51	The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u52	Mr. President. Here we are suggesting to fix the objective of this bill, which, in the available form of most part, is incomprehensible - if the purpose is to make a real contribution to the use of the resource. This law cannot be understood, as most of it suggests. We are also underlining the importance of not having any fish in the sea or of its use rights and temporary possession. Everyone must be able to say this. This is an important goal. We have the fish in the water, and it can't be delivered just like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u53	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u54	The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u55	Mr. President. The purpose of setting up these regulations on temporary agreements into the bill is to ensure the national partnership and prevent the provision of the eternal right of the dedicated people. In other words: to determine our understanding of the resource's ownership. So remarkablely, the delegates of all classes here at the council, except for the same, have agreed, and seem to agree on it in all equal terms, except when it comes to vote here at the council. Would it not be more honest to come out of the closet and disagree? Even when it sounds better to the public, the owner of the resource? At least that's more honest. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u56	Mr. President. I think it's right here to say that in the fish management laws, it is absolutely clear that crops in Iceland are shared in the country. This law also makes it clear that the distribution of fishing warrants would not be the right or the irrefutable custody of individual bodies of fish sources. Here, however, we are discussing a bill on how we will contribute to these fishing grounds. To the point of view. Councilmen here give a perfect account of the government of fishing where they live. That's why I say no to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u57	A respectable president. In this process of making changes, there is also a difference between the two of us. market how to spend the funds collected for the use of the nation's common resource. The costs of the management and control of fish should be met and equal positions based on a change in employment. I don't remember that the debate over those who speak the most of all about noncommunications was decided on what was to be spent in a government fund. I can't remember deciding not to use the fishing fee to place money in a national hospital, to place money on disability, at university, or more of the country's common projects. That's why I find it ridiculous to suggest it for the change of the 2nd. for hunting costs of earmarks for what the fishing fees are to go, without the exception of any conversation with anyone but himself. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u58	Mr. President. In fact, this is about fishing management laws, but we are dealing with fishing costs. There's a new proposal that I don't think is a connoisseur. Fishing costs are being said to cover management and fish control costs and equal positions based on changes in job practices. I agree with my colleagues. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, that there has been no discussion in the General Assembly. Is the cost of hunting solely under research and other incomes of hunting not a trust fund? Where has that discussion taken place? She did not ask the 11 meetings on a professional committee that was conducted and discussed. It was never overlooked by those involved in this case, it was not discussed within the job committee. Here we call for a discussion on this big case, and I find it most irresponsible to make such a suggestion without consulting. I don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u59	Mr. President. It's right next to the highest. Prime Minister, 1st C.E. the management of fish is required to give the resource to the nation. This does not change, however, that there are always voices that cross the line and hold on to other things, and even lawyers who talk about the fact that the present arrangement will eventually make it difficult for us to make rights. One of them is probably the largest owner of the country's factory that foretold a few days ago: The country does not own the fish. While these voices are still alive, there is absolutely incorruption but a timeline of law. Of course, we would have to hurry to agree to a new resource directive in a constitution. But we have this potential to speak and say what we think. Only one member of the council agree with these views, and now it is time to keep that statement. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u60	Mr. President. I'll say no to this article. A discussion about changes in the past stated that many people have said that we want to put time tied in Article 1. The fact is, though, that it is most reasonable for us to discuss these matters together. Fishing fees were originally part of the fish - control laws, which in the days of the left government, saw that the fishing fees were taken into separate layers because the government at that time could not discuss fishing and fishing costs at the same time. The nature of the matter, however, is hanging together, as can be seen in a report by the Committee for Resources from 2000, especially with regard to the duration of the hunting rights. You see this point: What is the length of the season for the fishing rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u61	The president encourages you. Senators to vote. Including the 13th. Southwestern District.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u62	Mr. President. A man can try for a long time. Here we are three classes, revered, convergence and Piratar making temporary contracts for 20 years. It has been considered whether it should exist in the year 23 like the advance party once wanted to. We have been talking 25 years ago, but we make this suggestion with two eyes in mind: To highlight the national community, for this is a reason to doubt that the nation's interests are sufficiently secure. Second, but no less to provide for the forethought to the next 20 years at least so that it cannot be taken overnight, but they can see this in 20 years' notice, how to keep building it up. Each government can then decide which structure it has, but this is important, on the other hand, the reality of the development and the national interests of the nation, to emphasize that the fishing resource is shared by the Icelandic people. No change can be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u63	Mr. President. It has long been said about the importance of stability and foreseeability in the fishing road. Here's a proposal from the Pirates, the Revolution and the Conspiracy to try to create the forebearability and stability by binding it in some form of agreement, some sort of contracts that apply for a particular time, thereby providing a basis for people to know in advance that political intervention will not be required on how fishing is arranged. That's something I think everyone in the project should agree, for this would make them quite firm. Of course, the whole body of Congress should agree, too, because it is something most classes have spoken in one way or another. It is wise to create some sort of stability, so of course I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u64	Mr. President. The proposal to vote for this right now is not to be discussed because this is an attempt to change laws other than the government of fishing. If this is an example of consultation, an example of how to legalize, then we are in a minor situation. So there is no other than to say no to this kind of motion, a suggestion that overthrows the government of fishing, a law that is not being discussed here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u65	A respectable president. Few things have puzzled me more in the discussion of the fishing fees this time, but just because the same people, with a loud voice of complaint, say nothing to the 2nd. legal on fishing costs a fundamental change in fish control laws. It's not done yet. A bill is not issued for review so that all can send in reviews, stakeholders as well as others, and then a meeting committee, a proper name. Business committee, on that matter. No, it's presented as a modification proposal for 2nd. on other laws. I'm not the irresponsible general that I'd think of making such an offer. That's why I vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u66	V.E.G. President. This is a vote for nonprofit fish species more than 100 million to be taken out of parentheses. I think it is, as I said earlier about other cases earlier, steps in the right direction and vote with it. But I would have liked to have this price higher to make more new products that are badly used and to remain because the price of hunting is too high and therefore go into a fit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u67	V.E.G. President. That's 4. to advertise the price of a cent per kilogram of the land of unscrupulous labor. I wondered if there would be no need to stand there for a sledgehammer. But it's just my comment on this article. I'll say yes for votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u68	A respectable president. I have voted with the articles that we have already discussed, including this article in the bill where this is a step in the right direction, i.e. that the process is simplified and more beneficial and that we can get closer to each other in time. Still, I think the price is too high. That's why I make this remark with my vote. I think the price is too high, and I think that we need to evaluate the impact this will have on country-based and secondary work and other activities, and different forms of development. We need to keep a close eye on it, and we need to examine its effects quickly. It may well be that a very small company can handle such a high price. But more part won't stand it. It will have unexpected effects, as we have seen recently. We need to be careful with these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u69	As noted at the outset of this case in my body of Congress, I gave a warning to the bill available here on fishing costs that protected the position of small and medium-sized outputs and their difficulties today. This is where we on a work board suggest a change in proposals that will give us a high degree of support for these outputs, small and medium-sized structures, i.e. to set the pay market at 40% of the first $6 million per year. We think it is very supportive of this structure that we need to have in order to ensure a well - founded population throughout the country, in the coastal areas. I believe it will be very useful to small and medium-sized productions and will be more powerful than the discount at a pre-existing holiday target.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u70	A respectable president. We spoke here at the Assembly Hall, especially in the middle of nowhere. At the time of the bill, more than two months ago, the head of the employment committee, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir, needed to consider especially small and medium-sized companies. It is a pleasure to have agreed to do so. These discounts and changes in the rules of the holiday market will be best for those who have at least one dollar worth more than those with more money. But I'm glad there's something special about these important fishing groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u71	A respectable president. The very existence of these articles shows that it is recognized that the price is too high for individual preparations and some sizes of associates. I'm counting this article on improvement. That's why I'm on her side. But I don't think she's going far enough. It will only affect the smallest companies. It will not reach medium enterprises, I think it is totally obvious. I would also like to point out that too high a fishing charge reduces other revenues from innovation and evolution in the article and from the secondary revenues it has, but especially from the state tax. This is a question of whether we are going to go a general and natural way to collect or do the resources in such a special and harmful way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u72	V.E.G. President. It's a step in the right direction, as I said about the bill earlier. But as I also said, it doesn't go far enough because under there are types of subsidiaries that we share as mediums who continue to carry far too high fishing costs. At that point, small or smaller designs have been met, but the modeling group above will remain in trouble. I would have liked, as I said in my committee party in my 1st section, to take some sort of step - change, where groups are diagnosed individually and paid according to their fees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u73	Mr. President. Here's a bit of a big proposal from the greater part for a number of things. This is, in my opinion, a direct and indirect statement by the government to continue fishing in Iceland. Here's a long-lasting commission and a hunting fee for the croissant. In my opinion, this simply paraphrases to continue here hunting at the same time as the highest. A minister has announced a revised review of whale fishing policy and our interests in this regard. I warn you, I will say no as far as this law is concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u74	Mr. President. It's quite remarkable to see the cost of a whaling, not just that they're there, but that they're also that low. That this group of VGs is going to sign up, I think it's a little weird. Whale fishing has extremely limited economic significance for Iceland. It's well known. They pay very little to the National Relations. On the other hand, whaling brings untold economic damage. It is hardly something to be valued for the sake of money. It's a hunting tradition that should go down, and it was said here in spring that treaties would not be replaced. I'm the highest. A sea - fishing minister not to renew agreements about continuing whaling. But in any case, I say no to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u75	V.E.G. President. I make a comment to the team in this article, which attracts and covers, especially clovens, because cloven is mainly within the terrestrial layers of the earth, which are 300 feet [150 m] in a massive stream. If I comment on the fact that the law says otherwise, it is not taken out of parentheses. It would have had to be done better, so I'll be sitting by on this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u76	Mr. President. This suggests, from a small part of the Parliament, that the bounty will run into the state funds and stand solely under control and under the control of fish fishing under the source of each year's budget, but the more largely the funds will go into the treasuries of the land. I'm asking again, are we here in a little change order for hunting fees to go to a government fund, so to speak? It's amazing to think of it. You may know you'll never be accepted, but it's just so irresponsible to work this way. I fully believe that income comes from a government fund for the building up of parts of the country, but if you're going to let the fishing fees that don't run into the state funds but to the national part of the country, I'm afraid we're going to have to hold some conferences on it and some meetings on a social committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u77	Mr. President. It is often said how important it is for the country to benefit from hunting expenses. Here is simply a suggestion that they benefit directly from it. It is not as if others like money haven't had such good planning through the years. It would only be a step forward to strengthening the building up of parts of the country, which would help the population of the population at any rate to help with the compression of government over fishing grounds, as it has been for many years here. Of course, we should support this small, moderate proposal. Otherwise, there's always another way to make money, and we don't know what comes next from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u78	Mr. President. This suggestion is an example when someone has a problem. In fact, the members of the council might suggest here, which may seem to be fine, perhaps even help to create a follow - up, but is completely incomplete and has not been programmed or thought-in in any way, as it says that the Minister of the Regional Affairs should then be hidden to write a bill about the fund suggested here to be set up where there is no law on him. Transporters do not even have the authority to implement the proposal. What kind of treasure is this? How will he be assigned? Who will be assigned, and why? And how much will it be done, and in what way? It's kind of amazing that we're going to vote on a proposal like this and remind us of a little in the old days when politicians fantasized about a lot of beautiful, big, fat transfer funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u79	Mr. President. Here, three groups, the Convergence, the Piratars, and Refundancy suggest that income from hunting costs go to the building up of the parts of the country, which would be the key to promoting employment and infrastructure in the national stocks. The reason we go that way. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason made such an observation that we wanted to work in cooperation and consultation with other members of Congress instead of making a firm suggestion for this matter. Anyway. This is the answer to the local society's call for a share in fishing fees. That's why I wanted to come up here and encourage you. Councilmen, to vote with this suggestion as we obviously will. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u80	Mr. President. Here we suggest that the profit produced from the use of our resources flow to the communities that have produced it. We suggest that this be done in agreement with the greater part of the council, just to be handled, because we have been repeatedly criticized for our lack of consultation. Our suggestion was that we would work together with a government to ensure that the parts of the country can control their own advice, control their own structure better, and that we are not constantly getting involved in the way things should be done in all parts of the country. Rather, they have considerably more financial independence than is now the rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u81	A respectable president. This adjustment, despite other laws of this law, involves the reduction of the fishing costs of unscrupulous catchers, the number of landed catchers. In this case, let's talk about the falling of the crown, dropping oil prices, and a much improved supply of the plant, but this is still to be reduced temporarily for one year, for example. That's enough for less than 40%, and that's less than 36%. We're talking about a current 21.69k. on the cod to 13.80 and current 25.16 k. an excrement to 16.15 k. It's obviously completely impossible to say but no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u82	Mr. President. We have come to the end of this vote, and it is now time for the new fishing arrangements. It's offered to the advance party, and it's offered to the Independence Party, and it's offered to the left green, and it's on the Central Party. I think it's right to bear in mind, already to reduce the rate of 4 billion, who's at this new arrangement. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u83	Mr. President. Here we discuss provision for temporary action, suggesting that next year there will be a fishing committee, now operating board, not working, if this bill is legal. It examines the methodology that has been used and put up with a specific dollar number per type. The law itself does not really come about until 2020. It is very strange, I must say, the smaller part does not agree with this suggestion because the changes in the memory of the section would be expected to collect in the next year exactly finance the modification proposals of the smaller part that is left here. So I'm surprised that the smaller part isn't going to support the suggestion that we'll charge in for next year's hunting fees. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u84	Mr. President. It seems that it is difficult for the greater part to understand that we will not agree to a reduction in hunting costs for next year's development. We want the conversation. We didn't get it. That's why we don't vote with a drop in fishing fees on the project because we just wanted to set priorities for the next year to the next. It's simple. This is a suggestion to reduce hunting costs next year on the fishing project, and that's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u85	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis on international development cooperation of Iceland to the next five years, i.e. for period 2019/2023. This is the third time that such an arrangement is proposed. The interpretation proposal is submitted in accordance with Article 5. track No. 121/2008, with subsequent changes, on Iceland's international development team. It says that every five years the Minister should propose a resolution to the General Assembly on government policy for the international development of Iceland to five years, with Iceland's goals and priorities in the press. The Parliamentary arrangement contains three accessory documents. First, the document is a 201990/020, which describes the more planned work in developing cooperation. This is followed by a review of the Development Committee and the last report on the implementation of a synopsis of the Iceland's International Development Team for 2013-2016. The review of previous plans showed that there is a positive stand around this seminary and that when it comes to developing cooperation, the body of Congress wants to be a challenge. This is a cause for rejoicing, for developing cooperation is a very important group of subjects. Not just a lot of money but also a work that is crucial to many people and that can even separate people from death. The development policy, as we call it in daily speech, is a guide to international development. It involves clear planning and setting of priorities, focusing on the effectiveness of the work of the European government in specific areas. The policy, based on the UN's global objectives, aims to reduce poverty and hunger and contribute to the well - being of human rights, sex equality and sustainable development. The policy puts forward two main objectives aimed at building social infrastructure and activities for peace and the protection of the earth and sustainable use of natural resources. Again, the group of litigators, whether of two - sided development cooperations in cooperation countries, regional partnerships, focus support, and international institutions, or community - related projects. The policy is similar to previous ideological planning programmes, but it reflects the changes that have taken place in international development cooperation during the last phase. There we have the highest global objective, the Paris Conference on Climate, the Third International Conference on Development Combining Development at Addis Abaaba, and the summit of humanitarian assistance held in Istanbul. The strategy is also based on the proposals established by the peer review of OECD/DAC's development team from 2017 and a report of state service to the future from the same year on. Developmental cooperation is the first formal standard for human rights, which includes performing human rights through exonent work, integration and specific measures for human rights. Thus, human rights will be given into consideration when projects are developed, carried out, and evaluated. We want to make sure that Iceland's development team projects contribute to and protect human rights. The equality has long been the focus of Iceland's development partnership. These issues are intended to be put forward in particular and are further emphasised on the equality issues that have come into place as a specific objective for the development of social infrastructure. Environmental and climate issues also play a key role in policy-making as well as for specific objectives. As always, Iceland is focusing on sustainable energy, particularly geothermal, in which knowledge has been used for the work of the past few years. In addition, land healing is introduced as a focus area under the sustainable use of natural resources. More important, cooperation with sectoral life is emphasised on policy activities. As the international community has noted, as also shown in OECD comments on the focus of Iceland's development cooperation, employment needs to contribute to the achieving of world goals by the year 2030. The main objective of Iceland's contribution to development is to reduce poverty and promote sectoral growth and sustainability in developing countries to lay the groundwork for improving prosperity. The arrival of the work environment, which has initiatives and a variety of expertise that can be used to solve complex tasks, is an important part of this structure. A new policy, therefore, highlights the support of the EEA's institutions and industry for sustainable development in developing countries. Such cooperation, however, is always based on conditions. Developmental cooperation and humanitarian support continue to be carried out through regional cooperation and cooperation with partners, focus countries, international institutions and social organisations. Two - sided cooperation countries in Iceland's development cooperation are still Malawi and Uganda, where we are based on the good results that have been achieved by prolonged cooperation. In our two - side cooperation, we continue to stress the need for support to poor people in Malawi and Uganda. It is important to add basic services to poor communities in certain regions of the two countries, which include access to water, improved health care, and improved education of the youngest children. This is done in close cooperation with local authorities on their own terms. By focusing on specific areas, we feel that Iceland's contribution will be more useful. We call it a local approach, and according to an independent foreign assessment, introduced earlier this year, this method seems to have been successful. By the end of 2017, two - side cooperation with the government in Mozambique has been made up of contributions for the multi-national and other services that work since 2018. So Mozambique changes from two - sided cooperation to emphasis. This decision was made after a thorough diagnostic work in 2014-2016, taking into account the scope of development cooperation with the country, the number of contributions, the importance of Iceland's development development development development development and government. The rest of Iceland's priorities in developing cooperation and humanitarian support are Afghanistan and Palestine. In recent years, Iceland has been working on regional projects in 13 countries in East Africa, where expertise has been most effective. The plan is to further use this approach, and Iceland is currently starting a regional partnership in West Africa in the area of the seaside, where colleagues have requested that Iceland communicate their expertise in the marine field. We will continue to participate in international cooperation and stress support for UN Women and UN Women, as well as the United Nations Population Fund, UNFPA, is the new focus center of Iceland. The work of the Agency is very consistent with Iceland's emphasis on gender equality, health and sexual and fertility health and rights. UNHCR, the United Nations Refugee Organization, also presents itself as a center of humanitarian assistance, but the Agency plays a key role when it comes to dealing with the enormous refugee crisis that this world faces. Then we will continue to focus on cooperation with the World Bank, and Iceland will take lead in the economic community at the World Bank in 2019 to 2 years. It will also be emphasized to develop the skills of individuals and the strength of institutions in developing countries with the function of the Ecological School, the Earth's School, the Landing School, and the Marine School. Community cooperation is still an important part of Iceland's development work, an important link in international development cooperation and humanitarian support. To ensure harmonisation, the development team strategy referred to the government's five-year financial programme for increased contributions to development cooperation, which is expected to increase in the coming years to 0.35% of the budget of national income in 2022. Total contributions to global development cooperation, i.e. Both contributions, which fall under the local language and other topic areas, are estimated to be about 8 billion. 2019, about 0.28% of the budget of national income, and thus increase a total of nearly 1 billion from the 2018 budget. There was also a marked increase in donations for development cooperation over the period of 2013◯2017. In 2013 it was over 4.3 billion, i.e. 0.23% of the budget of national income, and in 2017 the donations were nearly 7.3 billion, i.e. 0.28% of the gross national income. The success of Iceland's work in developing cooperation will continue to be strongly stressed, but it is a heavy responsibility to make public donations for development. We monitor the progress of projects and effectiveness in a systematic way. This is true of all the development activities that the Icelandic government provides, ranging from work in two - sided cooperation countries to the projects of multinational institutions. We have a heavy responsibility when it comes to ensuring that those who benefit from the help receive as much support as possible break out of poverty and for a better life. I suggest, most respected president, that this proposal be referred to. The Foreign Affairs Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u86	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for an excellent review and a pleasure to have this piece of paper in your hands. We agree on a few things, that's all. We agree on the main goals, and certainly there are very beautiful goals in the report that I truly share, although I may not always feel that it has been clearly understood in a recent financial program, i.e. how to follow them. But it is not enough to make beautiful words. We also need to have more ambition, and I don't think he's here. I agree with these human rights goals, which the Minister speaks of, the growing social infrastructure, to promote peaceful solutions, environmental and equality, and to all our foreign policy. It is the only place in which we can really do something, and we can even have a good effect on peace matters through defense laws that we participate in and things. But here we are discussing developing cooperation. I also commend the highest. Ministers and pleased that this body of Congress proposal for international development cooperation in Iceland was introduced into government consultations, so all Icelanders were given the opportunity to express their opinion of policy. There's reason to mention that. Of course, it is of utmost importance to increase the public awareness of development and of the development of the world in general outside the land and our participation in various areas and what we can do. Much of our international commitments are to attack the world's poverty. There I feel that the government is worthless, for although the centenarian is growing in cooperation with increasing national income, most of this is an increase in the amount of pressure far from which I believe the 11th richest nation in the world should be fully condemned. That is shown in the case of the highest. Ministers to plan for them to become 0.35% of national income at the end of a five-year financial programme, and of course, it is far beyond our reach that we will achieve the objectives of the United Nations that lay down the responsibilities of the world's most developed and wealthy nation - which we are blessed - to protect 0.7% of the population in developing cooperation. The government has only ambition to achieve half this objective, and that's shameful, I think, already fine years. Even if there is a flash, we actually defend the same percentage as we did in the middle of a financial crisis in this category. I think we can work something out to do this better. I'm asking the highest, too. Minister: When is this estimated 0.7% goal? That's not really true. True, it is stated in the document that governments support the goal of the United Nations. But I would have thought that it might also be in the document some kind of timed plan on when we were going to do it and at least to say that we also aim to do so, not just to say that we support the United Nations goal of doing so. There are two differences. Mr. President. It is good for the Icelandic government to work on international efforts to reduce business barriers to developing nations and to improve their market access. Of course, we in the United States are advocates of economic cooperation and business freedom, but it is that business is both fair and honest, and we need to be there at all times. Above all, we need to be careful that the social side will not be forgotten and that the development of teamwork is always on the basis of those who accept help, as this fine document does. The business arrangement must never completely determine how we choose our business when leaving behind our money in the developing team sector. In the Senate arrangement, you will see that Icelandic employment will be encouraged to participate in income and employment investments for people who have to break free from poverty. It's very good, and I support it, but it's very important, as in every other country, that international commitments are being made and that the rights of wage people, human rights, women's rights, and other such factors are respected. I just want to tie it down, though I generally agree that it might be a good way to do it. I'd also like to mention here that in the Parliament's resolution proposal, you can list cooperation with international institutions. I'm impressed that the Red Cross's International Council is missing, which is an extremely important team member in this field. Now it may be some kind of mistake, but I think it should be. I have to come in, though. The Parliamentary arrangement speaks of an increase in flexibility in the development of donations to address costs for refugees and fugitives. Of course, you can do well, and you can welcome those who are here seeking protection or who do not need help in the pocket of developing countries or for those who should go to developing countries. I understand that, there can be a temporary condition that makes any large part of it go to these factors. Actually, it's unusual for us Icelanders, 36%, but while we haven't reached this 0.7% goal, while we're still dancing somewhere around 0.3% and going to 0.35%, I don't think this is a good idea. Minister, and we need to do better. But we're in here most of our team when it comes to the big lines of the foreign politics. Although much is understood by the financial debate, Iceland is, fortunately, a peaceful democracy that can achieve a common policy on the major international issues, i.e. to promote peace, to promote women's rights, to promote human rights, and such things. This is of utmost importance even now when we experience that there are elements, political leaders, and even the common people, who are becoming prominent in our part of the world, who are becoming prominent even in our country, perhaps some in the council, who benefit from drawing up a black and white picture of the world. There are voices that are louder and louder that promote prejudice, promote nationalism, want to submerge the country, to keep it out of the world, to foster suspicion, to spread false stories, and to flaunt such growing extreme movements elsewhere in order to justify their movement. Thus, we can choose a world based on classification and separation, where we have a powerful border, where each one is next to himself, a black view of the future. We are to speak for a future based on cooperation, where people are tempted to take responsibility for one another. The first advantage I mentioned will only lead to tensions and discrepancies. The second option appears at least The hope of a common good life for all mankind. With the latest technology, we are one huge family, and we are responsible for one another, and I know that we still share a vision with a minister, even though we may discern how hard we should go down when we make contributions to these matters. But I thank the Minister for the Order, and I know that we will have a perturbing discussion about that in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I see no reason to wait to have a perfunctory conversation. A senator. He went over his vision and his party at this, and I think, like, he did. One senator noted that this is more important than our disagreeing. Because of what? A senator pointed to certain points, and I'm going to add only what I didn't present in my background. Hv. A senator referred to how the contributions have developed, but the ratio of public development support by the gross income of national income has fluctuated quite since the year 2000. In the year 2000, it was 0.1% of citizens'income, at the highest rate in 0.36% in 2008, but it went to the lowest 0.2% 2011 when the economic collapse was the most severe. The reason for not setting a longer goal is that we always plan a five - year program legally. If we went up to 0.7%, this would be 19 billion bucks. every year. We would have to raise our donations by 11 billion. The mean production of DiaC countries was 0.31% in 2017. We look especially to the northern countries, but there are, of course, more countries in OECD that we all compare with those with even higher proportions, many of which are very rich. I'm glad to hear some attitude. Because if we are going to help these countries to become economically independent, we need to build up their professional ways, and that is what they want. But just to make it perfectly clear, the actions will be carried out on their terms. This isn't on our terms, but we'll answer their call for cooperation with the job. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u88	Madam President. I'm also completely aware that we can activate it for good and should do it. We just need to guard against traps that can be anywhere we really are. I realize that the goal is 0.7% not to be reached in one step. I'll also appreciate that for a five-year plan, it may be abnormal to mention a year number, but I felt I understood from a minister that he thought the Icelanders should pursue this in the future. If it is, I think it's okay that one line comes in through it. It may well be that people feel that this is a huge donation, but in view of the fact that we have no way of overcoming the crazy problems we face, indiscriminately, in poverty, in the climate crisis, I think we should persevere in it. I think the Icelanders will generally support us in that goal. It is near to recall that no more is needed than 1976 when the Icelanders accepted strength from the United Nations Human Rights Fund. You see, we tend to forget how short it is since we lived here. I repeat, my chief. Minister, that there is no other way but a sense of cooperation, cooperation, and a great international cooperation, and we'll just go there together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u89	A respectable president. Hv. A senator named Iceland. I think it's fine that we think about what's been going well with us. Why have we come to this place? Hv. A senator mentioned that we are the 11th richest nation in the world. Why is that? Because we have been able to build a powerful economy and a powerful job life. That's even. Because we have access to large markets and our markets are open. There's nothing different about these countries, just nothing. Although we are totally in a different place than the countries we are helping, the same law applies. What we have to offer and what I'm happy to see in developing cooperation in general is that we're also sharing our somewhat special experience. Then I refer specifically to the School of Earth's School and the Marine School. A much bigger issue than a person realizes is the healing process. We've had much more success, and I'm not talking about equality. All of this matters when it comes to the construction of a job. I think I'm correct in saying that geothermal projects have become more and more production from geothermal in Kenya than in Iceland, and that includes. cooperated with Icelandic parties. Once we're successful, we should try to share it, it's all up and it's been a long time. I think all this discussion is good. I think it matters to us, and I have high hopes of continuing cooperation with a developing teamwork committee. A senator sits in. I think he agrees with me in that matter and also that we do what we can to teach people about what we're doing and why. I think it will make it possible that developing cooperation will be even greater than it is now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u90	Madam President. Thank you very much, very much. Minister. I'm sure we can get along well with these things, although we'll probably only slow down about how fast we're going to reach our goal. It's true that Iceland has become rich because we've mastered the economy. We have not done this on our own. We have both been lucky with resources, but we have also received assistance from a number of these nations that may not have received to a sufficient extent yet, and even now we have been living more closely in our time as just a product of plundering the richest nations of the world, perhaps not us, but the close association of these countries with the Western countries has not been problemless for all of these nations. We also have the blood for duty, except that I believe it, just so I once again come to, that it is the benefit of the whole human race that we are helping, and that we shall certainly do so, most certainly. Minister, and thank you for volunteering this fine suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u91	Madam President. I'm glad we're here and we're discussing it. I would also like to welcome the fundamental emphasis on human rights policy, with the view that poverty is not only a lack of material things but also a lack of security, power, and control over our own circumstances. I also welcome the emphasis that appears in the synopsis proposal for equality between the sexes and those of the children's rights. So I will continue to rejoice, of course, for the main objectives and sub-targets involved in the building of social infrastructure, the work for peace, and the environment, the protection of the earth and the sustainable use of natural resources. All of this is well and essential for the development of our developing teamwork and policy. I just want to get a little touch on a few things. First about the climate change. How important it is that we have clear direction and implementation as well as when it comes to the fact that part of development donations is marked into the battle against climate change. We all know that climate change can contribute - and have already done - to an increasing number of climate refugees who, in turn, will escape the consequences of climate change, which will crystallize in more difficult dwelling conditions and the growth of war conflicts, which are one of the consequences of such resource struggles as water, grass, and vegetation, etc. It is of utmost importance that a rich nation like Iceland, and with its experience in combating the climate change that we are always improving in, be made clear there and take it in a certain way into our development policy. Then, too, it is the fight against poverty. The battle against poverty is the natural strand of global goals that are fundamental to the development of developing cohesion. The fight against poverty and hunger. And then this fight for general well - being on the basis of human rights, sex equality and sustainable development. It's all good, and I think that the entire body of Congress must be able to support these emphasis. They are good, and they will lead to good. However, I cannot pass by here in my speech to mention the development of the budget for developing cooperation that I, and hopefully much more, would like to see happen more quickly in the pursuit of commitment to support the goals of the United Nations that we have already undergone. It is stated in a financial program based on financial policy that the cost interest to foreign interests is largely three ways. One of these spending teams is contributions to public development cooperation. Of course, they should raise, and that's fine. It's good to see this rise. But, as I say, an increase from 0.26% of the population incomes of the current year to 0.35% of the population income in 2022 I feel like a slow rise and would have liked to see us succeed at this time, when Iceland's state fund is at its best, to improve there. It is worth the effort to keep the donations up, they've been raising. But we may need to improve. I'd like to mention it as well. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson mentioned earlier, i.e. This portion, which falls under development cooperation, is used to receive refugees from here to the country. It is true that there are many countries within the DEC Committee who have listed this under the same hat, i.e. Even the convention of hostilities, including refugees, as contributions to development cooperation. This does not mean that we must follow that trend. I think it would be our primary goal in developing cooperation to strengthen people to live in their homelands, that people do not have to flee their livelihoods and homes, and that we strengthen people to live and live decent lives in their own area. We must also not start poring this up, the money that goes into development, and the hostilities of refugees. And there is something else that must not be replaced. Also, while we are increasing money into the development community, when it comes to the arrival of refugees, it is not allowed to create some moral problem, and the threat of refugees is taken away because the Ministry of Justice must, of course, increase on its side when it comes to hosting refugees. So I think it would be extremely well and to be followed if Iceland was to speak to the DEC Committee that this was not a set-up. I realize that more countries have been doing that and will continue to do so. But I would certainly like to see a foreign minister take advantage of the fact that this is now and again. I'm not going to give another long talk. But I also think that the emphasis must be stressed, when it's the highest. Secretary of State proposes a plagiarization proposal for developing cooperation, for the implementation. The procedure must also be clear, specific, and useful to the experiences we already possess, our strengths. I trust the highest. Secretary of State for that, and I also trust the highest. Of course, the secretary of state and staff of the State Department and the State Department to arrange for the development of the development of the development community policy to be well designed - but also extremely clear. Because the distribution of funds needs to be clear. We need to know exactly what to do with money, and we need to be clear that these funds are useful to the people we want to help. We also know that developing cooperation presents tremendous challenges. It's where natural climates come in. I think we need to take good care of this development teamwork and make good use of the strengths we have. I want, as I say, to reiterate my joy with the fact that the council arrangement has come forward and we are finally discussing it here in the Senate Hall. There are many very good things there to do, but there may be several things that might be more important. I can't wait to hear about it from the highest level. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good and perfunctory speech. Many interesting things were missing. Senator. For what happened earlier, I'd like to say that this is by no means the Minister's private matter, and not even the Ministry. For one thing, the problem was put in the noncompliance to create a response. But then there's a natural problem. A foreign press committee, a bit of a drive-by. A senator sits in, and a development team member I know will fit into this. But because of him. A senator mentioned the big issues of climate, so the Ministry has made a commitment to provide a total of one million dollars in 2016-2020 in the green climate Fund. The sea finances projects aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and enabling countries to cope with the consequences of climate change. The ocean is focused on low and intermediate states. Iceland has also supported climate development through geographing in East Africa, cooperation with the Norwegian Development Fund, the World Bank and the United Nations Environment Agency, and support the World Bank energy Fund, which contributes to the sustainable use of energy resources in developing countries. Finally, Iceland has emphasized the sex equal rights in the climate sector in line with the government's implementation programme for equal rights in 2016-2018. In order to achieve this, Iceland has provided a fund that has the goal of increasing the share of women from developing countries in international climate discussions, and Iceland has provided an additional donation to SEfor All and UNEP, an earmark project in the field of gender equality. Whatever it is. A senator may mention, and I may go better into something else as a matter of course. A senator came in earlier, about a climate struggle is some things we know very well and can impart and, of course, have done so, including Through the development team, but also in other areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u93	Madam President. I welcome this addition to the highest degree. The minister of foreign affairs mentioned in his opponent about contributions to the green climate fund, which is extremely important. I agree with the highest. Secretary of State that we have a lot of experience in sharing our development cooperation, including of forestry, land disintegration, etc. Let's not forget that Iceland is the biggest desert in Europe. There are many things we have to offer that can benefit from the development team. In terms of equality, I'd also like to welcome these sex friends into the climate emphasis on developing cooperation. That's fine. It's important. We know that the authority of women is one of the most effective tools and tools we have in developing cooperation. There are amazing things that the authority of women and the direction of women in the process of developing cooperation. Just to improve the availability of women to their workplaces or the availability of girls to their school. For us, these may be small operations, but they are extremely important. I have previously mentioned in the Generals' symposium to consider Swazi's foreign policy when it comes to the matter of equality. In our foreign policy, we have the issue of equality. Sweden has done even better, and it has simply said that their foreign policy is feminist and their development policy is feministic, which is very good. I have no doubt that the highest. The minister of foreign affairs has studied this very carefully and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u94	A respectable president. We can learn a lot from the North countries, and that's one of the things we're doing in the Ministry, simply trying to map it. They've been doing this much longer, much more. I think it's a huge part of the development team that we're not gonna make the mistakes they made because they've made a lot of people on the way. Hv. A senator specifically pointed to the importance of a clear policy and the use of capital. This is a natural requirement and from both ends, both from taxpayers and from those who enjoy it. It is up to us to keep a close eye on all aspects of our work, both in international institutions and in the two - sided cooperation. I think it's best to discuss this as environmental and climate issues. I also want to name the United Nations University. He's working on climate and environment. It's about 730 billion. K. in 2018; in this area too, some 115 million are involved. K., in the 2018th - century bullfight, with this emphasis as fast as possible. A senator in particular referred to this. I wanted to say, too, because I thought it was a good night. A senator points out that when it comes to being in a refugee area, we need to help them see that, of course, it's best, but we should also look at this in a larger context. When talking about these contributions, i.e. The way we sort them, I just want them to be comparable between countries, so we know how we're doing it and applying international rules. I have stressed it as a senator, as well as as a minister to e.g. EFTA development funds, in which we are strengthening the poorest European countries, are also used for refugees. This is often a very difficult situation in Mediterranean countries, Greece, Italy. There are still very large refugee camps where people have lived for a long time. They see what it's like to be in such stores for a long time. We're supposed to think of this big problem as a dog. A senator rightly focuses on, in a larger context than just under the hat of evolutionary cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u95	Madam President. I think we're at the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs agree on the main lines and the main initiative in developing cooperation. Just on the European Parliament's refugee committee, I realize the tremendous task that will be faced when it comes to refugees from countries suffering from both poverty and conflict. I still think that people who run out of this condition want to go home. Of course, it is the natural root that we always speak for peace and peaceful solutions, and for war, of course. But we must also face the fact that climate will soon become a source of conflict, even now. Many experts have noted that the struggle for water resources is one of the main sources of the Syrian civil war, and this is one of the consequences of climate change. As for the exchange of funds between the arrival of refugees to the country and the direct development team support, I think, at least, and I've talked about it, both here in conferences and elsewhere, and will continue to do so, that we will make a special welcome of refugees to the country and are not stoning the two. Although we are all of us, of course, willing to do and more in order to make even more money for refugees, I feel that we are not right and that there is not enough transparency that we are at one side to increase our slow contribution to development and that they also contain an increase in donations at home. [[The president calls.]] I think we need to understand well, raise both, do it fast, and certainly, and hopefully faster and more than we may have done so far, as I mentioned in the talk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u96	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of state for this passage. There's a lot of good in this proposal, which is a policy for the international development team of us Icelanders from 20191⁄223. Perhaps I would like to approach it only in an unconventional way and discuss a little about one of our focus countries, Palestine. I'm glad it is. The book Emphasis and Goals discusses the equality of the sexes and human rights and other factors being guided. Then international peace is introduced, i.e. It is emphasized that we contribute to international peace. I think it's a very good thing, because I think there's a lot of opportunities for us Icelanders. I remember the highest. Secretary of State met at the beginning of the year with the chief executive of the United Nations in New York City. That's when they said the highest. Minister, for this reason, I recall that the United Nations was very important to us and more important than many suspect. I agree with it with the highest degree. Minister. I'm glad he made this point. But I'd also like to draw special attention to what the manager said at this meeting, and it appeared in part in the media. He stressed that Iceland could have a major impact on the United Nations, and this would often be viewed as a covenant, as Iceland would be the leading states of equality and human rights with trust. It's a key subject of all of this, that's having trust. What a joy it is in my view, and it could have been more attentive when those words fell at the beginning of the year! I believe we should view these words as an opportunity to make us more visible in the international field, visible in the United Nations field, and take initiative in international affairs. Then I'd like to specifically link it to policy-wise, i.e. international peace. I mentioned trust earlier. You see, trust is very important in international reconciliation and peace search. Since Iceland is an armyless country without weapons, it is a great boost to our situation. I'd like to mention in this context a major international issue where I believe we could take action, there's a dispute between the Israelites and the Palestinians. This is especially true of me because for a time I worked there and am well acquainted with the favor of the Israelites and the Palestinians to us. There is a key to working out the peace quests and, in fact, the basis for success, for the state of mediating and trying to promote peace with both parties to complete trust. We can only see that the United States has failed to restore peace in the Middle East. Much of it is that Palestinians have never fully trusted them. So when we look to the European Union, neither has it been possible to achieve some success in these matters because it is only a fact that the Israelites have never fully trusted them. Then we know of the natural world with Norway, Norway, have been very interested in achieving the peace process in the Middle East, and we have made great efforts with the Oslo Treaty at the time. Sadly, though, it is just that they failed the contracts. From what I know when I was down there, the general attitude of the common Palestinian is negative to this Norway contribution. This shows that there are factors that are of vital importance and trust. We all know that Iceland played a very important role in the development of the 1948 State of Israel. The relationship between the countries was long strong, but in recent years there has been a marked decrease in natural values, especially as a result of Israel's occupation of the Palestine language that we condemned. But here I stated that the Israelites have great respect for Iceland and regard us as a friend. Then, as we all know, it was at the end of 2011 that Iceland became the first state in Western and Northern Europe to recognize Palestine as an independent state. We have that kind of confidence in these agencies, and it's a big opportunity, as I mentioned earlier, to be a source of information. I rejoice that it is evident in this policy, the emphasis on promoting international peace. I'd love to hear it from the highest. Minister of foreign affairs what he saw in that regard. This is indicated here, and maybe he could explain it a little further. In the end, we know that little Iceland is a small country, but it's a big country when it comes to peace. That is exactly what the secretary - general of the United Nations has established. Then I wanted to go through with what is on page. 3, the structure of social infrastructure and work for the sake of peace. It mentions acts against sexual or sexual violence. I welcome this emphasis. If we look back to Palestine, I think we could do a lot of work there. If we look e.g. To Gaza, research has shown that this area is filled with domestic violence and sexual abuse, violence against women and children. There are a number of reasons. It is natural, first of all, the Israelite military force and the wars that have raged there. Then there is a very limited help that people can seek, women and children, especially women, simply because of the local government. In addition, we know that only the attitude toward women in Gaza differs from that of e.g. on the West Bank, because the Hamas organization that controls it doesn't look as serious as the eyes. Governments on the West Bank. There is an opportunity for us to take a closer look. Then, according to Icelandic governments, they respect the leadership of the United Nations. I'll agree with that. If so, I may want to come to the matter of refugees. We can also help in so - called refugee areas, i.e. in the vicinity of war because we have repeatedly shown that we can help far more people in our area than we can do to receive refugees here. Of course, I agree that we welcome refugees here and we have only a certain greeting on that subject, but it is possible to do amazing things simply through direct financial contributions to the agencies in war - torn areas of the United Nations. I urge it to be examined as well. I see that time is far now, but I finally wanted to ask the highest. Minister on our emphasis, Afghanistan, which of our particular priorities is there. I couldn't see it coming in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the subject and good speech. Most of the time, I did not finish my answer in a two - minute answer. Hv. Clearly, a senator knows a lot about these matters in many ways. I look at it because of what. A senator referred to the words of the United Nations chief executive, that we have been very current in the United Nations, think I may claim that. We have the ambition to do more. Of course, it is incredibly important that we take up residence in the United Nations Human Rights Council. There I hope not only that we can do good things in order to reach our goals. A senator in particular pointed to the fact that we gain experience, our recent foreign service, and have not taken on such a project before, this is the greatest international assignment we have ever received, and it will also benefit us afterward. If we can use our position to bring peace somewhere, no matter what part of the world, why? A senator here refers to a dispute between Israel and Palestine, then we will, of course, do it and do what we can to do good. Of course, that's a big deal. It's important, I think, in development cooperation, because of that. A senator came in many places, that what we take into account we do well. We are not supposed to be everywhere, never to be successful, we should be very successful. Hv. A senator here referred to a big case involving domestic violence and sexual violence. That's one reason why we're putting human rights matters into our evolutionary policy, we want to help with it, and we're taking the initiative to help out where the problems are going, but we'd also like to give the message to the people we're working on with our priorities. [[The president calls.]] We ask that human rights be respected by our partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u98	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I agree with him that what we're doing should be done well. True, being a peacemaker in a foreign field is a big matter, but we have a very good foundation and can be prepared by certain means. The seat in the Human Rights Council is certainly one of them. I'm glad you're here. I wanted to point out that on page only at the end. 9 discusses Icelandic peacekeepers and roles they can take in as civilian employees, which includes. building a new government I like to get this in here because if I only stick to Palestine, there's been polls on a research site in that country called the AMAN on which social projects are the most urgent. The conclusion was that the most important project was economic, but second, there was a fight against corruption in the government. That's very interesting. Sadly, corruption is rampant in many places. It's in Palestine, like any other country. However, it also shows that there does not seem to be enough interest among the governments in Palestine to counteract corruption. It also states that the universities of Palestine are eager to set up a special course that covers the fight against corruption within the governing system and in general about good government practices. I wanted to make this happen because I think we could help out there, even cost some courses and help in these areas, because that's why there's supposed to be a low corruption in the management system in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] We are to take advantage of it as an opportunity too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u99	Thank you. A senator for his contribution again. Because he asked about Afghanistan, the emphasis is on equality, structure, and restoration, which is now not unnecessary. Hv. A senator may have referred to one of the greatest cases of corruption. Of course, this is difficult, and what is really built up in many areas of the world for cleaning is just a corruption issue. Hv. paritaprevir Logi Már Einarsson even referred to him. In the fact that resources and other factors were badly treated, they are often associated with corruption issues. Of course, history can also be attributed to the way they have been treated in the past and did not just turn to them and not just those who were ruling at home. There were other parties that came in. But improved rulership is a natural key. Hv. paritaprevir Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir pointed much to the equality issues. Women who participate and are more active members of the nation are very helpful. The more they get, the more I think it's possible to claim it has a really good effect. It's all the same way, i.e. Our goals. So I'll witness again to what? paritaprevir Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörn's daughter she talked about what I know at the moment. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's tenants agree that it matters that the money is handled well, that there is a transparency in it, and we can say that we took a particular assignment that worked in a certain way. However, many things are said to be done during the development work. One of these is the government, which is absolutely right. A senator, for it is very difficult to succeed unless the government is efficient and free of corruption. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u100	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister in depth. I'd also like to welcome these new agricultural emphasis, that it's become a very important area. In this country, we have a very good knowledge of land healing, and we may be able to communicate it. I'm celebrating this new emphasis. Then, at the end, I'd like to come back to the Peacekeepers, these civilian personnel we're sending, which I support with my whole mind and have given a great deal of experience. I would like to put more emphasis on health care professionals. There is a great need for this in these areas. When I was working down there from then on, I once visited a medical station at Gaza. In this case, each doctor receives 110 patients a day. Each patient has an estimated three minutes. The pressure is intense in those places, and I think we can really help out there. We naturally have wonderful health professionals, including birth care and so forth, midwives. There is a great need for this area. I just want the end of the line to encourage the highest. Ministers to look at this possibility, I know that there's something to increase this, some contracts are expected with the World Health Organization in this regard. That's very good. In this group of subjects, we can certainly do good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u101	Madam President. I'm happy to have a proposal for a resolution on Iceland's international development policy for 2019-2023. I like the emphasis presented in this proposal, and I think that there's a lot of improvement, at any rate, and in its emphasis on evolution, what's being involved with the UN's global goal and bringing human rights dating into developing communities. Although I realized that this has always been to some extent, I think it was important to write it in even better and to reiterate it even more. Indeed, it is necessary to have such a approach in order to reach the most vulnerable people in the world's poorest communities. I want to be there to name women, because there's been a little discussion about the status of women in this discussion. I think it's very positive that the proportion of land production we provide for development cooperation is increasing. I would have liked to see it increase even more, and I believe Iceland should be trying to reach 0.7% of its target, as it is said, by the Icelandic government. I would have wanted us to move faster toward that goal, yet rejoice that we are taking steps to get closer to it and think it's very good. I have myself on a development team committee, and I don't hear from anyone who knows what is best about developing and the field work but that what Iceland's doing, and maybe in two-sided development cooperation, it's that the funds we put in these cases are very useful. In any case, I don't think it has to be in doubt that the funds we put in this category benefit people who live in enormous poverty and that they are very useful. I find it very important to mention it all the time and remind you that development cooperation should always be carried out on the basis of the recipient's state, i.e. The development team is designed to raise the poorest countries out of poverty. It's not supposed to make any money for an Icelandic company in the developing world. According to them in Icelandic society, there is an enormous amount of knowledge and, of course, expertise in various fields, that we should impart that knowledge, including, of course, information. in developing cooperation. But I feel that it is important to keep it in place that we must make sure that it is the primary needs of the recipient of the nation that is guided. Finally, I would like to access what has only been discussed here today, which is the financial support of developing cooperation donations, while taking advantage of the inmates and refugees in this country. I think it's important that we welcome the people who come here who are fleeing a terrible emergency and often terrible conditions in their own country. But I'll put a question mark on whether or not the funds to go off this budget, and to what extent it should go out of these teams. I think these matters need a tremendous deal. My opinion is that it should be financed by inmates and refugees from other budgetaries other than those who are going to develop in cooperation, but I know that this will be considered, including, if you don't know what you're doing. Because DiaC is working to further explain the rules on how to pronounce aid provided within the country. We're here at the General and we're members of a development team committee, as well as the highest. The minister and the Ministry of State itself must be keeping a close eye on what it says. But there's only a few minimum rules, and nothing that stands between us Icelanders and I just decided to do better than the minimum rules. But I'm sure they're monitored and at least known. What are the rules for these matters, and how do countries around us do things? There are some things that I think we should take as role models, but there are others that I don't think are worthy of imitation in these matters. This is the thing we need to look at even more. Finally, I'd like to welcome back the fact that this council resolution proposal for Iceland's international development team has arrived in 2019-2023. Her emphasis, I believe, is correct. The money's coming up, and then we just have to step up and make further improvements. Sadly, the world needs it, especially the poorest people in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u102	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A member of the body, such as others, for a good, verbal talk. Hv. A senator spoke a lot of things, but I wanted to mention what he said about professional life. So I'm just gonna take this opportunity and just tell us how we've gotten there. Developmental goals in this country must always be the primary objective of support and of any assistance provided should be in accordance with the plans and needs of the country. There are clear rules of the OECD Development Committee, the DEC Committee on what kind of support donor countries can provide as part of development aid. The task of a private member who is supported in developing cohesion, thus accepting public capitals, has to meet certain criteria, including need to include a defined secondary value. Similarly, such projects would not be carried out on ordinary market grounds and building projects must not compete for competition or lead to other market disturbances and may even have to have measurable developmental effects. Development teamwork thus is not relevant for the standard export and market activities of enterprises, even though markets may be in developing countries. The Ministry of State has implemented two key ways to cooperate with the work of the world in support of development cooperation and the UN global objectives. On the one hand, there is a new cooperation fund to the world's aims for corporate cooperation, especially with the aim of promoting employment and sustainable growth in poor developing countries. The maximum amount of money can be 200 ounces [200 m] high. EUR 3 years and must not exceed 50% of the total cost of the project. The other leads to partners, with increased emphasis on the possibility of working with a business organisation and working with a company to work with an enterprise on certain projects. This project can focus on more extensive areas of Iceland's focus on developing cooperation and the UN's global objectives on sustainable development. The new rules of cooperation with the work force on the UN World Goals were presented by the Board of Directors between 11 and 25th of October. Then there was a special press conference on November 6th. But this is exactly what happened. A senator was stressing, and we must stay and stay exactly where we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u103	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers the answer and for reviewing the rules on employment participation when it comes to developing cooperation. I agree that it is very important to have more members than the government at the table when it comes to developing cooperation, and I think that professional life should be there and can be relevant. I reiterate what I said that it is important for me to always be present during the discussion to care in the way that it is done. Therefore, it must always be repeated during the discussion, for of course it is good that it is written in. But we also know completely that things that have been written in on some guidelines can change. Therefore, it is important to remember that developing cooperation should be on the side of the receiver, not on custody or on the interests of rich companies in the West who may be able to see a chance to be in some form of bisness in the developing world. But I'm glad it's so well written in, but I believe that all of us need to be on guard that the development team is being done in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u104	A respectable president. I just agree with what. Senator, the discussion is very important. I think, for example. that the discussion here today, for those who follow her, was found to be fascinating, for everyone here has a why. Councilmen contributed a great deal of knowledge and brought a good and perfunctory approach to this sect. Hv. As noted, a senator is a developing teamwork committee, and it is very important to develop a teamwork committee and a driving committee. Foreign Affairs are well-involved and monitored, discussing these matters, and giving the Ministry custody. Hv. In his speech, a senator pointed out that according to the assessments made by foreign authorities, we seem to have a lot of success. What we're doing is reviewing their comments, and one of their comments turned toward the job, that we needed to put it more into the developing language. This is the way it is done. It's not something we invented in the Red Sea path. It's what we extract from other sources of knowledge. I went to a meeting that was held by the minister of Denmark with the African foreign advisers on these matters in Copenhagen. I have also spoken with members of the Danish foreign service in order to get their initial success and failure. They're all, and I hear it from other states, ready to share their experiences with us. I think it's important that we have found this in Iceland, including... with these stakes. It is important that members of the Foreign Affairs Committee and members of the Development Committee get to meet with the people directly to discuss these matters. Of course, there are phase differences in attitudes, and not all things agree with one another. But the more knowledge, the better. Actually, I think everybody's rowing in the same direction, and then it's time to look good over it, including in those committees I referred to here and at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u105	Madam President. Because this reference was made to a development team committee, I only wanted to explain what that committee is. It consists of representatives of every body of Congress here at the General Assembly, as well as representatives of various association organizations and university institutions involved in some form of development. The Committee has an enormous knowledge of development in different fields, in fact, according to the civil groups involved. I have found that the zeal for the topic on the committee is very positive; it has found much more than it really needs to be legal because of the fact that reports are being reviewed. They're getting information on how Iceland works and on the criteria set, including ... ofDAC, when it comes to developing cohesion. I think it's safe to say, at least as far as the Development Committee is concerned, to the General and to the highest. Since there is a very good group of people who burn to the subject, a minister is an extremely necessary and important area of communication. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u106	Madam President. Several words are given to the contribution of this policy in developing cooperation. There is no doubt that developing aid is our community and moral obligation, and it is a very general agreement on our country. Our contributions are still too low, yet it is glad that they have increased slowly and more depending on what the Supreme Court said. Minister. This is a slow, biting increase toward what we can fully be seen by. Then, of course, it is proper to encourage the recovery of these 0.7% of the population income, and I believe that the government should set goals and say that it is achieved within 53/410 years. What a joy it would be to see such goals set out! I would also like to celebrate a fund for companies and members to apply for developing cooperation and, in fact, would have liked to see a special reserve for it and perhaps that it will be done immediately. I would like to welcome the help and cooperation that has been given to those 13 countries in Africa. It's about a fishery we know well about, about the earth's heat, which, of course, is a major climate issue, which, in addition to our donations, our assistance, in the green climate Fund, I welcome the equal view we've had so strong, and then also the education we've helped and the others. in connection with healing and agriculture in many parts of Africa, which is also a climate issue, as we have seen. I want to add one thing. I've been talking about bringing some of our development cooperation to countries in South America, when the government's budget has gone up in the future. We have much to do with this part of the world, and we can do so much to help and not short of need, for there are several countries, especially in the western continent that need it. I also care about the development aid of Icelandic enterprises that have been present in the discussion. It is important that, in this respect, society's interests become respected to the limit and that businesses working there do not have a 100% profit - reaching interest, but everything else in mind. We know, as we have noted, there are certain protocols that have been agreed on, but we can also add to them and maintain our code of conduct or communication as strictly as possible. Finally, Madam President. I want to say something. Councilmen, both Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir and Árnadóttir Thorjörnóttir, before me, who have spoken for the emphasis of the left green in the affairs of evolutionary cooperation. The emphasis is good, you see. Furthermore, I'm going to thank these policy-making policies. This is a stage that is very acceptable, and it tells us that, of course, we need to develop the development of evolutionary cohesion in an even more ambitious direction. I support this policy and all reforms of the materials that come from this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very good act. Hv. A senator may have been perturbing, but he may have been quite perturbing on his birthday. I want to take this opportunity and wish. Congratulations to a senator on his birthday. I'm just making fun of it. It's not been necessary for him to approach it in an upbuilding and objective way. Hv. A senator introduces certain things that we need to discuss. It doesn't turn, as I've said, just the staff that comes to the case or ministers. Now we're adding to our contributions, and they say we should go faster on it, etc., and it's probably normal to discuss it, but there's a reason we're adding up, and then the question is, Where are we going to carry it down? Hv. A senator has mentioned that he looks specifically at countries in South America. I think we're supposed to be getting closer to this, like what we're talking about. A senator was referring, based on the fact that we know well in the fishing grounds and in the geologic climates. The land transplant is completely underestimated. The earth's temperature, land transplants, and, in fact, the sea route are also climate issues. Then, with the equality issues, it compares with what we have experienced, and we can impart that experience. The question is, where are we to move? We're here to discuss it, as are we. Foreign Affairs Committee how we want to see these issues developed. It has also been mentioned that this does not rule out, as well. A senator refers to, the nations that use the way of the sea, and the desire to make use of the way of the sea, including the oceans. island. It might work together. I'd be interested in that, a respectable president, because of that. A senator turned no questions to me then I'd like to direct a question to him, if he could do a little more detailed in this idea of South America.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u108	Madam President. We welcome this increase in development cooperation very much, and thank you very much. Minister for the birthday wishs. When it comes to South America, it can be said that there are many things that are going on in Africa in a very similar way. They're fishing nations. Some of these have gone beyond others, as in Chile. However, both Peru and Ecuador are not. These are countries that have a fever. These are lands where soil erosion is very rapid and extensive, and where equality issues are going. What I would like to point out as an addition to this, because we have gained insight and slowly added to it, there is another force beyond earth's heat. We can call thermal pumps or wind - power stations or other technological developments that have occurred here, e.g. At Iceland's New Creation Center, in energy sources, even marine plants and other factors, unconventional energy consumption of our standards, i.e. hydrolytics or aquifers. Such unorthodox energy workers can be considered. Then, in particular, it is these issues that we have brought ourselves to, which are soil reforms, repairs, and so on. We now know that these four schools here may lose their relationship with the United Nations University. They're working on keeping the relationship in a different way. I'd like to ask you later, the highest possible answer. Foreign Minister: How does it feel to keep in touch with them?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think it's the perfect approach at any given moment. A senator is in. I'm just thinking out loud, and I think we should discuss these matters - we have a teamwork committee, we have a bad case. The Foreign Affairs Committee - then we just do it with an open mind and then come to some conclusion. I think one of these things is, I'm at that point right now, that when we go on a project, it's manageable, even when we're dealing with the government. True, as in Africa, we're in two-way cooperation, then we're going through the grass root. We're not going through the government, which I think is smart. I was meeting both in Argentina and here in Skavegur, with Ecuador's foreign minister, who came to the country. We were signing a vacation contract with them. There is tremendous interest in working with Iceland. You can sense that it's an interest in Iceland, both because of a certain positive image we have, but also because we're so small. There is no need to worry about us swallowing them. It's almost only a small company in Iceland, and some of the largest are medium-sized compared to other countries. It matters to these people. Hv. A senator asks about the United Nations University. We're looking into the matter, I don't have the latest news of how it works, except that I knew that it was a very positive thing from other institutions we were discussing to continue communicating with international institutions. I have some very lofty ideas about school. I think we have a good foundation that we can build on and make it even stronger. Africa is one continent, South America truly another and Asia, where people look to the expertise we have. It's obviously the geothermal and the fishing route, but land transplants are completely underestimated. We have had far better results in transplants than we may have figured out. We are to continue that work here at home, and of course we will use it and share that experience with others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u110	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. What a joy it is to hear that we are working to keep in touch with the United Nations when it comes to these schools! They have made a huge difference in many countries. We could expand this school if possible, because there are not only countries in South America and Asia that would be able to approach us, but there are countries that we can call more advanced than some of these countries we've been helping, even in Central America, possibly Australia. It would be possible to do much because it is quite right. Secretary of state says, we have achieved tremendous success in land healing, just as we have seen in the geothermals. But once again, we have more fields of knowledge. We could also mention a variety of innovations, e.g. In connection with the fishing road, develop products that exist there. Then there is one factor that has also been underestimated, and I tried to get it on some 15 years ago between Iceland and Ecuador, which is aid in the monitoring of volcanoes. We have special knowledge of it and we could pass it on as a means of development, too, whether it's in Africa or South America or around the Pacific more or less.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-12-03-40.u111	A respectable president. I hope that as many as most have observed this discussion, it is a clear example of why. Individual members of different categories can discuss things very objectively and in an upbuilding way. This discussion has certainly been that way. I couldn't help but say, "What's up?" Councilmen - when I was a senator, I was more irritated by it. Ministers could not enter the discussion at the end - but they were naturally able to cover very little. I hope, though I have been able to get into some of the things that were discussed here, I see nothing exactly going on after the discussion. I'm going to take this opportunity to tell only the results of this short talk of Icelandic development activity, because I think it's important that people know about it. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned South America, and I wanted to say that we support ground training in El Salvador in cooperation with other parties. I think you're absolutely right. A senator is truly able to impart experience when it comes to monitoring volcanoes. I think it's important for us to watch them especially well now; I don't know why, you get that feeling somehow. I hope I'm wrong about that. But first about the two-way teamwork. Has it worked? The recent evaluation shows e.g. that two - sided cooperation in Malawi and Uganda has been very effective. Iceland has put its weights on the reduction rate of maternal deaths at Mangochi projects in Malawi in the fields of maternal and infant protection and has not been identified cholera in Mangochi region in Malawi for the past two years. Thanks to a large investment in the preparation of water supply and action projects to improve the quality of hygiene. In Uganda, too, new waters have had a wide positive effect, since cholera has completely disappeared and other water - borne diseases have greatly reduced other diseases. Educations have also resulted in considerable improvement in school benefits. In Malawi, 31,444 students in 12 basic schools have been supported, as well as 20,265 elementary school students in the Bulgarian and Kaanga region of Uganda. In Malawi, 91 high school students and 4,259 high school students in Uganda, as well as 425 students in trade. At that time, 227 preschoolers have been supported in Malawi. In the international development team for Iceland, the IDA International Progress Agency has a large place, but the Agency is the international bank arm that directs its efforts to the poorest countries in the world. It is strongly emphasized that donations produce the most results. Since 2011, IDA has been working on 274 million children who have been vaccinated, 86 million people have been given access to wholesome water, 657 million have enjoyed basic health services, and more than 8.5 million teachers have been trained. With regard to geological cooperation, Iceland's contribution in East Africa, which is based on an Icelandic field of geologic expertise, has led to increased knowledge of the potential for geologic development in the African valley. For example, Iceland conducted geologic research in two high - temperature areas in Ethiopia, where there is good promise. The World Bank now accepts funding and further developments and has been issued for experiments. In order to remind us only of the free partnerships, the surveys from last year show that they are very effective in the work of Icelandic Free Associations, which have been supported by the Ministry of State. The result is varied. Among other things, there is an increased resistance-resistant community in Malawi, water and crops, environmental and economic power of women in Eastern Europe, an increased quality of life for AIDS infected in Uganda, and the economic power of very poor women in poor South Africa. Cooperation with a free organization continues to be one of our main assistants in the Icelandic developing community. If we examine the United Nations University, regardless of review from 2017, the success of all schools will be seen, but their students will influence all levels of the community in their own countries. 1,289 students have graduated from school, as well as 3,539 individuals who have attended shorter classes that are held most in developing lands. When we talk about humanitarian and emergency assistance, we act on international guidelines for humanitarian and humanitarian aid, but such assistance has been strongly stressed as free and immediate access to those who need it. The efforts of Iceland to provide humanitarian help have increased from over 232 million in 2015 to over 746 million in 2018. A respectable president. What I mention here is by no means exhaustive, but I don't think it matters that people know what we're doing and what they're doing. People who know, whether politicians or the common people, are very important. The world is falling very fast, not only because it is easier to travel but also with everyone for technical advancement, and we are to take it with an open mind. Happily, in recent decades and decades, world conditions have improved and have benefited from significant advances and changes in lifestyle. That, of course, is a positive one. But very much work has been done, and our approach has been to try to learn from the successful one. The part of the Parliament and the Development Committee is particularly important when we discuss these matters and decide where we will go and what the results we will achieve in the coming years and decades. At the end, I want to use this opportunity again and thank you very much for this discussion. I'm convinced of that, and I know that. This matter will be handled well by a Foreign Affairs Committee and offer tips on this policy that I think is very good. I have no doubt that the matter will be improved in the case of the Committee.
