ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u1	At the beginning of the meeting, the president allows to wish the members of the council a joyous summer with gratitude for cooperation and cooperation in recent winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u2	Borist has a letter from the fourth. Smoke. s., Thorhldildi Ævarsdóttir Asvarsdóttir, says she can't attend a meeting next time. As reported on the General Assembly, on Friday, April 20, a deputy of Pirata, Olga Margrét Cilia, took up residence at the General Assembly. Olga Margrét Cilia, who has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly, is welcome to serve again. There have also been letters from Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörn's daughter that she is unable to perform her next session and from the presidents of the House of Independence and the Middle Party that Brumes Brynjar's Níelsson and Bergþór Ólason cannot attend church meetings in the near future. Today, therefore, members of the General Assembly, who served as members of the Fjölnir States, Sæmundsson, HildurSverrisdóttir and the United States, live in Jón, as well as in Þór Þorvaldsson States. Hildur Sverrisdóttir has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly, and she is welcome back to work. The letter of the Fjölnir and Jón Þór, the Sæmundsson of Þorvaldsson, have already been investigated and agreed, but they have not taken their first place in the Council, so it is necessary to sign a solemn vow to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u3	The Fjölnir of Sæmundsson and Þór Þorvaldsson have signed their commitment to the Constitution and are welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u4	There have been four letters from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to give written answers to the inquiries on the deck. 424, with members of the Ministry, and with the institutions of the minister's case, from the Þorsteinn Sæmundsson of Seymund, to the threshing floor. 498 of the travel expenses and the daily expenses of the minister and the Ministry, from Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson, to the threshing floor. 731, on public work outside the capital area, from the Halla Sign of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, and on the threshing floor. 237, for import of raw and unbound foods from Bjarni Jónsson. Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 368, for the improvement of social security, from the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir. Finally, a letter from the Minister of Justice requested to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 645, about a box of speech, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u5	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Health Ministers, Education and Culture, Social Affairs and Justice Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u6	Mr. President. V.E.G. During the first few days, a minister made extensive announcements that she was going to save the health system. Still, there is little dosing for hospital operations and unclear how to ensure the survival of the funds, including to meet the reasonable demands of midwives. The midwives are one of the most obvious examples of women's classes who have had to endure systematic discrimination, a class that performs more delicate and more important services for all too low wages. Three years ago, midwives went to a strike completed by law and procedure. The government has refused to pay them for their work in the strike ever since. For more than six months, midwives have tried to negotiate with the State on pay correction. With each passing week, more midwives resign. The news, too, is that 95 midwives from their local homes no longer perform the ministry where there is no value in a frame deal. Since a conference of midwives and health insurance in Iceland sent proposals for Easter, there has been no word from the Ministry in spite of repeated attempts by midwives to contact the Ministry's employees. They have also tried to contact the health minister personally, but nothing has gone on. Home nurse midwives are actually contractors on the hatches. This service, however, saves vast sums of money for the State and Hospitals and makes it necessary for many mothers to go home from a maternity ward as quickly as is normal in this country. Clearly, there is no room for staff or facilities for this service rather than for midwives, despite this morning's proclamation by the health minister. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: She does not believe that this total or apathy could cause further damage, including Because the midwives who have quit their jobs will not return? [[The president calls.]] Further: Will the Commission of the State get rich contracts offered in the future votes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. As far as the entrance is concerned. A senator of systematic discrimination - and the particular concern of what women's classes are really subversive, and especially in the health system, I agree with that - I would like to begin first with what is under my department and find this agreement on home service to mothers and newborn babies. Because of what's been discussed in the media yesterday, and this morning also, I'd like to be sure that there was no negotiations left unsigned on my table, but a memo from Iceland's Medical Insurance, where certain transfers were added to the box agreements with home-service lights. This application was based on the fact that in the case of significant abnormalities in the health of a child or a mother, they would no longer be served by home - service midwives. The hospital in Akureyri and the National Hospital estimates that this change would include a significant increase in cost, as well as a lower level of service today, thus believing that this proposal on a memo from Iceland's Medical Insurance, after dealing with midwives, was unacceptable. So it is wrong to say that a contract was on my side, asking confirmation, as it has been claimed in the media. Today, we've had time to meet with Iceland's Medical Insurance because this letter came from Land Hospital this morning, about the frame deal. The meeting went well and is planned for the Ministry and Medical Insurance to meet again tomorrow morning. 14th In view of the situation, I have already written a letter to all medical institutions in the country, recommending that they care for the requested service until the situation has been resolved. It is the responsibility of health - care institutions to ensure the safety of mothers and children and that neonates and nursing mothers do not represent the existing situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u8	Mr. President. Good health systems still need to rely on midwives in the future. I feel that this lack of respect for the union is a disgrace. It is crystal clear in the morning's memo for the Ministry of Health, which says this and this, not to mention speaking to midwives. And in fact, the Ministry hasn't. What does that mean, e.g. that the arrangements for house - to - house service to women become a more solid arrangement than that of the framework work to be done so far? In this letter, there are some things very unclear, and a minister needs to answer how she will be at peace with this class that is more desirable than any man could have believed. I think the Minister should have at least one. showing humility in answering them when questions are addressed to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u9	A respectable president. It doesn't just take humility to answer letters, that's to be done under administrative laws. I've said it here, and I've told it many times that there's a very important class involved. I stand by paying them according to their education and responsibilities. Whatever it is. A senator is here referring, not to a letter, but to a press release sent from the Ministry this morning. I've met the head of the State Department and I think it makes sense that I've met her again, and we're going over the situation, but the contracts are directly between the home services of midwives and Iceland's medical insurance, but not exactly at the Ministry. It is then in later stages that the Ministry confirms the results of agreements. However, in this case the Ministry received certain ideas for which the Landspians could not agree with them and the Hospital in Akureyri could not. That's really today's processing project. We will get busy in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u10	A respectable president. The Union in Reykjavík has now presented its policies for its coming mayor's election. In particular, the party highlights two main elections, one so - called city line, and the other, that the Grand Way will be put in stocks. Both are government projects, if at all, and the mayor has, in fact, agreed and pointed out that the cost of these projects is largely due to the government. My question to the highest. The minister of finance is, therefore, the highest. Minister of the Union's campaign budget in Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u11	A respectable president. I don't know if you can answer it here that it's hardly gonna be time for the election in a month. However, I would like to state that it is absolutely clear in the law that when rural governments request the benefits of transport beyond what the roads consider necessary to achieve the targets for transport being targeted, e.g. with the jump of solutions or other such costly extra initiatives, it is assumed that rural areas themselves will need to add what is missing in order to survive the project. I'm not going to say anything about the Grand Way in this regard, but it's obvious on the grounds of the law that a special contribution from the local community is not being made to take on such an animal solution. Actually, the same thing applies with a city line. During the meetings I have been doing for the city line project, it has been very clear that such a project would not be fully financed by the state. I've heard some ideas from Reykjavík City about some kind of deposit that people have to take on their own business. But I don't know that any way to finance the capital's share in this project or how other rural groups intend to contribute. But we are relatively limited, as can be seen from a newly contributed financial program to take on tens of millions of projects, such as those mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u12	A respectable president. In the financial program at the highest. A minister noted how little transportation is put into place, especially because the so - called big transport campaign had been discussed. In fact, 5.5 billion are added to the seminary each year to make up the terms of the season, and it is just enough to get back to the old transport program. Well, that's all the big stuff. How surprised I would have been if I had been the highest. A financial minister was going to discuss that the State would add to projects that cost tens of billions and that, in the case of the city line, may well exceed 100 billion. But I understood the highest answer. A minister as if there were no room for it, that the city, the city authorities, could not expect to get funding in the city line or to build a Grand Way in stocks, from the highest level. Secretary of the budget, state funds. If I am mistaken, I simply ask the minister to correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u13	A respectable president. It's clear to me that despite the fact that a new financial program is about a quarter increase to the road, which I have to say, just as it is that there's a considerable effort on the road, no matter how you want to look at it--some say that it needs to be compared to the need. If we just look at the funding we've had for maintenance and new projects on the road, we'll have a huge increase in the budget. But that is true, it will not be enough to cover tens of millions of projects in the city line. In fact, the entire period must be watched. I came to see here in my first answer that it's not that the government should be alone at all costs. I feel that the whole idea of the city needs to be defined much better. It is from being over 100 billion in progress simply to be more favorable to public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u14	President. This morning, news showed that all the 95 home - service midwives listed in the country had decided to take up their jobs from day to day. According to midwives, they're shutting down jobs because the government agreement between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the midwives is waiting for signatures in the Ministry. However, according to the Ministry's announcement, work on the contract is not finished and health insurance has only been presented to the Ministry of Memory, with proposals to change the agreement in response to the Hospital insurance negotiations with midwives. First, I would like to ask a minister: " What causes this misleading information? The first agreement of midwives with Medical Insurance guaranteed them 4,394k. in time for home service. That agreement came out on January 31st. The midwives were very at odds with the hourly pay for home service, since the agreement is far from acceptable for work and stress. According to a midwives, at the Iceland Medical Insurance Summit, an agreement was adopted. It was clear that if the contract did not add additional funds, it would be necessary to cut service. What was pointed at, and then it was called a relief, was taking out this weakest group of women and children who would make them lie longer in the teeming ward with the related cost. This group was added to local service contracts a few years ago, but the women were previously bedridden. So it was a great advantage for hospitals to be able to discharge this group to home service, and it was equally important for the women who were able to serve safely at home rather than in the hospital. According to a report by the Department of Health for Iceland's Medical Insurance to suggest that a new contract includes a decrease in the home services of midwives, but there is no mention of the increases requested by midwives in order to prevent their failures. They want to continue in their ministry. So I would like to ask the secretary if this is the case, if it is not to be read that there is no desire to add extra funds to the contract and therefore is intended to reduce home service. Why not ensure midwives in your local service and continue to provide this delicate group of women at home?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, she asks, "What is the source of misinformation? " I can't answer that, unfortunately. What I have in my hand is a memo received by the Ministry from Medical Insurance in March 23, which reminds me, since these are the options of health insurance contracts with midwives after going through the case with them. Perhaps in that relationship, the common understanding of the agreement may have developed. But I agree with what. A senator, I would have been surprised if a contract that included impaired service had been available to midwives at that point. Thus, according to the review of a Land Hospital of ◯ University Hospital, which came to us this morning after I had run after last night, the midwives'home service for the concerned group, i.e. C, so called a health class, is an important and urgent service. The quality of the home service of midwives for this group reduces the duration of mother and newborn babies in hospital on average by two to four days, resulting in considerable financial saving and rapid family association, which is important in the formation of connections, etc. It also says that early graduations of women and neonates who are involved in this health category without appropriate supervision and management are not acceptable, nor are there any direct safety concern, and increase the likelihood of re-imbursement and such events. It is quite clear that this memo contains a specific approach to the position where it is expected to reduce the amount of service. [[The president calls.]] We're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u16	President. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of other sources with such conflicting information. I've been talking to midwives and asking if it's the highest. A minister has talked to midwives or has had contact with midwives. There is no evidence that midwives are asking for an increase in this contract so that they can continue their home service to this vulnerable group called C, that it is not a desire to impair this service but only an increase in the contract in order to carry it out. Has that been shown in this memo from Iceland's Medical Insurance? If not, why? It sounds like midwives, and what comes from the Ministry isn't the same thing. I'd like a minister to respond to this, to explain if it was not the most successful - if this is true, that it would only be missing an increase in the contract - to give the midwives an increase so that they can continue in this service. [[The president calls.]] Will a minister give them this rise?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u17	A respectable president. The memo that comes from the National Medical Insurance Department of Iceland is not drawn up options. No options are drawn but stated: If it is said that - not all expectations of increase, but if the deadline is raised, but if it does not appear exactly where it should be, the service needs to be reduced. That is what the suggestion assumes, or the memo. So maybe here it is: In this memo from Iceland's Medical Insurance says: Since the debate between midwives and financial and economic ministers has mixed into this contract, it is assumed that they will not be caught until the preparation of the collective agreement. It's just some attitude of Iceland's Medical Insurance that's getting on our table at the Ministry. Everyone must see that there is good reason to find both health insurance and the Land Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital and be in contact with midwives. Yeah, I've been talking to midwives. I've spoken to the head of the club. [[The president calls.]] I've been in informal contact with quite a few midwives in the past few days. [[The president calls.]] But I didn't formally get information that these actions were planned, really not until I was looking for it last night. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u18	A respectable president. That's a dollar a year against a decrease in disability that I'm going to talk about here and now and direct my inquiry about the breakdown to the highest degree. Minister of well-being. The group of people called invalids is going under a dollar against a dollar's decrease. It is a impairment that means exactly that every dollar that a person named a invalid tries to earn himself - tries to make that effort if he possibly can find health in trying to get out of the poverty that is nothing more than a human act, a government, an evil act that is known to me - is taken away from him. There is absolutely nothing done about it right now to eliminate this loss. The only thing needed is the will of a ruler, the name of a pen, which is exactly the same line that can be drawn over this loss of microorganism that was done at its time in behalf of the elderly. Why are these social groups especially being discriminated against? Why is mixing and justifying a crown against a coin's decrease that is because something called a work estimate is now being done? It does not take a sharp brain to realize that a dollar's salary and a dollar worth of work against a decrease in disability simply do not have anything in common. Taking these two things, throwing them into one pot, and moving them together just to try to justify the inability to eliminate this crown from me is completely incomprehensible. That's why I'm asking the highest. J.A.: What in the world stands in the way of that, chief. welfare minister, that you take this pen in your hand, shows this will in action, and cross a dollar to a dollar's degree for micropence?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for taking up this case at the General Assembly. The work being done is about taking up a new payment system for microenergy pensioners and is the government's decision that the assessment will be performed at the same time. A special team of cooperation, or political group, has been appointed to go to that work. Hope is that the work that is about to start will be finished right away on autumn days. It is extremely important that the growth in biofuels is achieved as early as possible. The budget estimates that next year there will be an increase in biofuels, and it is therefore important that this work be completed as soon as possible. to investigate how to promote the implementation of microenergy donors. And underneath, at that job, there's even I want to discuss it when and how to take a dollar's money back. It's enormously urgent, like what's happened. A senator points out. Hv. A senator spoke about the elderly in this regard, and it is worth mention of working among the elderly who were going to reevaluate the social security systems that join them. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson led them to work in his day. The same is expected to do with microenergy pensioners. I say it here, and I never say it enough that it's extremely important that that that work can go fast and without fail. The plan is that it will be completed on autumn days so that we can initiate a new system of payment when it comes to microenergy pensioners, which will then be expected to disqualify a dollar from the loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u20	A respectable president. I've heard that. Thank you very much. well-being minister for nothing, because this is what I've been hearing here all winter. I'm still wondering what's actually marked with a dollar in return to a dollar's impairment and skill assessment. It's just nothing. There is no basis, then, for the removal of a cent and the recovery of it to the very day of the old city. There's a rule in the constitution 65th paragraph. The Constitution, the 90th rule. We are not permitted to discriminate against the people so gravely, as a dollar does against a dollar's impairment. Again, I ask, "What is in common by having a well - being evaluation and removing a cent in return for a dollar? ' That's totally different. There's no need to consult. You don't need a conversation. All it takes is action. It just needs to be. And it just needs to be taken care of. It's as simple as that. That's why I say, you can look at this job estimate in every direction, it's only good, but a dollar across a dollar's trinket has to go away. Now. So the poor get away on vacation. So poorer can run away from free heads and possibly look a brighter day.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u21	A respectable president. As I told you earlier, the next year's funding is expected to increase for microenergy pensioners. The work that lies ahead is to discuss how this will be taken care of. [[Up front.]] It is, in fact, there. assuming that a dollar a year and a quarter is needed will be discussed and taken away from us. The plan is to revise the social security system when it comes to micro-energy pensioners with the aim of reducing a dollar to the degree of loss. That's why I say and say again: I hope that this work can go fast and safely so that we can achieve the common goal that I think most people have in this room, if not all of us, hopefully, that they will be able to eliminate the centills and encourage increased participation in microenergy pensioners in a labour market. My political will stands for it. I think me and what. A senator would agree. But this work has to be done. This must be done concomitantly. That is why it is important to get started and be done quickly. [[The president calls.]] In that working group, a group member has just a group member. The senator's seat. [[The president calls.]] I hope the job can go well and fast. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u22	President. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Secretary of finance and perhaps more the chairman of the Independence Party than the Secretary of finance. But it does matter how public money is handled. This government has promised that high costs for health and welfare in general without a clear objective on what will be the result of their increased expenses. One thing seems to be quite clear, however, that it will not be beneficial to the health - care providers. In fact, in the first few months of this government, it will be only that it is being cut up against private work in the health sector and recent discussions about its replacement operations, as it is quite clear that, despite the urgent health problems, a long waiting list that we do not care for, should not be agreed with national bodies for such actions, private exercise, but rather send patients to a foreign country with a much more cost. Actually, I don't understand the economics behind this policy of government. But it's not just in these matters, it's in a lot of others. We have heard reports of Karitas, who have done tremendous good work in the health - care sector, which is not able to negotiate in an acceptable way. A mind - set has also been here for a discussion, and now the last debate is that the cancer club that has had an enormously important, vigorous, unselfish work in the medical sector for decades but seems to be, we can say, be felled out of the judiciary of this government. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance and chairman of the Independence Party: Is the objective of this government to stamp out private business in the health system?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u23	A respectable president. No, it is not the goal of self - destruction by the health system. I can tell you in my place, since this is the way it's put up here, that I have a lot of faith that we can enhance the flexibility of the system, increase the efficiency and achieve better results for patients, by composing the benefits of public management, public funding, and then private failures. Of course, there may be a renewal of certain contracts that are being drawn here and that will reveal how they proceed. Then we have another case; the government took e.g. New decision to add large sums of credit to patients for dental reasons, i.e. older citizens, their dental expenses. This gives us an example of a service where contributions are increased because of services being maintained in the country by privates. This is a huge question, the question of how we will make the most of the money we are going to set aside for this group of languages. I can say with what. When it comes to our being allowed to do better in identifying and calling out the merits of the private enterprise, where they are the most and have returned most, both in this country and elsewhere, and at the same time, to demand for public institutions, such as The big hospitals, that we always get the maximum use of the money we've got there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u24	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Of course, it is interesting to review a fine article by the director of health insurance today that describes the very same problem. There are other reasons why we do not want to take advantage of the services of the individual person. Now we have to keep in mind that a lot of these parties are not even pursuing their business for profit. It is often an organization that is volunteering, serving within the medical system that is usually much more practical than I think the State itself could offer. But I can't see anything else, from the first steps of the government, but that these advantages can slowly be slowly pushed out at greater cost to the health system, with more cost to the state's funds. It's a pleasure to hear that it's the highest. The secretary of finance protests that this is not a government policy at all. I really hope that those views will then be loud at the government table because they are headed for the highest degree. There seems to be another health minister in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u25	A respectable president. I think this is a group of lawsuits that we need to give longer time and that better diagnostic work needs to take place and possibly more care from the council, both from the financial committee and the professional committees, when it comes to how we follow the health and health benefits of financial management. I'm not sure that there is as much difference of opinion as there is here, with a health minister who recently said that the situation of arthrotherapy is totally unacceptable as the need to respond. Obviously, it would be against common sense for us to be choosing a far more expensive option or, on the basis of European rules, to stand on a far more expensive option when it comes to such action than the one already seems to be. In this regard, we realize that because of the total amount of money available to the health system, vast amounts of money depend on us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u26	A respectable president. There's a first round. The Council of the Government's budget has completed. The last Ministry will present their case from a financial programme for a financial committee and to the Senate Committee tomorrow. After the first round. and the presentations that have been presented remains a question of the budget. It is a question that has become louder with every financial plan and budget that the Senate has taken care of since the approval of public financial legislation. In Iceland's Constitution the budget is simple in two articles, on the one hand. G., of the fact that the Allied Council and the President go together with the legislature, and 41 of them. ... that no fee can be valid unless it is legalized. On the other hand, I'd like to discuss the financial agenda here. Official financial law even says that there is a difference between the two of us.Unable to connect to POP The budget should be in accordance with the financial objective of the budget. These objectives can be attributed to the development of individual ministers for their sector, which says, by permission of the President: The policy will explain how goals will be achieved, responsible division, timing, use of funds, and the emphasis on shopping. The proposed adjustment should be made. A policy for the topic field should be overall and in accordance with the budgets established in the current financial programme. I ask a minister: Is it clear in financial planning what policy is in line with the financial boundaries outlined in the budget? Here I highlight the policy in line with the specified budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u27	A respectable president. I have to answer yes to this question and refer to what is presented under the individual financial issues of the budget. Then, of course, there are conflicting views on how far you should go in order to find out exactly what you are going to do. In the end, the financial program, as well as the strategy published there, refers to a report coming to the council from the council. This will test whether the Ministers will achieve the time set out in the financial programme under individual issues and also whether the developments to be regularly outlined at the council are in line with what the policy says. That's what I'm talking about. A senator says about the money force is absolutely clear that it is at the council. I thought why. A senator may be suggesting that the hands of the council were somehow bound by the law that the budget should be in harmony with the financial program presented at the council. But here again, the time has come for us to do nothing more than try to build a certain level of credibility. If it happens repeatedly that the council will solve financial policy and, of course, follow up with budget and budgets that are completely in opposition to what has been presented there, it is not in itself to commit an act of own law because the budget will always stipulate the Congress of the budget, but men will undermine the credibility that is being tried to build up by causing these things to be called on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u28	A respectable president. It's a big deal about credibility, that's exactly right, that says Minister, and the statement that the Minister is supposed to give back to the council. Now it comes to the introduction of the hearings for the financial committees at the highest level. Secretary of the sea that it is the policy of the government to renew the ocean research ship known as Secretary of finance, Bjarni Sæmundsson. But there is no amount of money in a financial program. V.E.G. One ocean leader simply says that there is no money for it in a financial program. This is the discrepancy I see in the financial agenda. Sets a frame, sets a specific policy, but the policy does not match the given box. If that is the situation, the secretary's report precisely does not mean anything because it is an empty package, the charge is actually an empty package. [[The president calls.]] The filling process has not yet been explained. Then I'm not asking for disintegration in individual institutions, etc., but I ask: How much are the costs of policy and goals, how do they explain the framework? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u29	V.E.G. President. I refer to what I said earlier, of course, people can have a different view of how far they should go in showing that behind all their goals there are certain amounts of money and that they need to be more accurate as they want to go further. But if we just take an example of buying a ship or a helicopter or something, that is to renew some vessel, it is not simple, before the design of the ship comes, putting some particular dollar number behind such a case, which is likely to end up in an invitation. It is difficult to do such things, such as setting up a number of billions without even deciding whether they should even buy or rent ships. There are complications in the setting of a long-term plan. [[The president calls.]] Humans go as far as possible, but there will always be some weaknesses. Hv. A senator is absolutely right, there's a bit of a hole, some weakness that may not ruin the overall picture, but probably is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u30	Mr. President. It goes more and more often for so - called electric coins such as Bitcoin, Etheremum, and Zctash during the discussion. Almost everyone has seen an increase in the activity of various peoples in connection with these electrical coins in Iceland, perhaps least at the highest. Prime Minister on a recent flight. We have also seen data plants springing up like gorbets, including in containers running like raw wood all over the world, there's an electrical flashback in Reykjavík, and there's an Icelandic exchange market for electrical coins. In many ways, such governments as even major international banks have responded to this trend. Some countries have welcomed this trend, while others have attacked bans. China has imposed considerable bans on the use of electric coins recently, and still other countries have held back and have tried to visualize what will happen, but there has been no position in the government on what to do. People who have been involved in this business and have gone to the F.A., to the head of state tax, or to others after counseling have received very few answers. The situation is somewhat like the wild West, apparently, and is reason enough to build up regulations about these electrical coins in order to ensure economic stability, because in certain cases this could threaten our stability, and to ensure national security. In cases where there could be enough activity, some may decide to attack our communications on a network to try to influence the market. Of course, other national interests also need to be guaranteed, as well as providing for those who are trying to create new employment around these electronic devices some kind of clear guidelines, so that no one needs to be afraid of random regulations and sudden disposal in law and other laws. In fact, it's a matter of the fact that everyone knows what's going on and what rules are in place. So I ask the highest. First of all, what the minister's plan, and maybe the government, is to improve legislation and regulations regarding the publishing and use of electrical coins in Iceland. Second, I ask what rules are already in values that affect the publishing and use of electrical coins in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for taking up this matter, which is maligned in Icelandic politics, as he rightly points out. Hv. A senator specifically speaks of electrical coins in his query. Then you might ask yourself, " Is the correct concept a virtual gift? ' It has been discussed to use the term "future " because some form of electricity may remind us of a charge that has been used for conventional currency. What we called virtual money would be something about the Bitcoin, Auroracoin, etc. but electricity has connections to conventional currency. The pager has defined a virtual product as an electronic version that has value but is published by a source which is neither a currency nor a follow-up person in the sense of law and is, in its own sense, to calculate the unity of the partner in value; however, the absolute definition of virtual funds is not established, which we can call. Of course, that is where we need to remember that we are in international cooperation. Much of our financial system is created in the European Economic Area. Hv. A senator referred to what is taking place on a global scale. There is still a legal vacuum for the European Economic Areas. However, there has been a considerable debate over the possibility of covering the phenomenon with efficient and sound legislation, but there seems to be something in the country. I'll assume from a question what. A senator, as he puts it, says that he is primarily considering the economic aspect. Of course, there are other factors that we also need to consider in the political arena. In particular, I mention the use of resources that we can call mines, or they have been called mines, because of the wind. A senator named my companion on a flight the other day, mine dug, for example. of Bitcoin. There we need to consider both the resource use and the social responsibility of our companies. If we look at the economic side primarily, we are working on the implementation of the fifth EU budget for a virtual budget by the Ministry of Justice. Hv. A senator named here an ATM. It is taking a business cut off in a bank where it can be bought and sold by Bitcoin. I don't know if this ATM's already up, but at least... reports have been received that there is a chance of putting him up under announcements of money-scraping. According to Europol, the use of ATMs of the above mentioned sort is a growing problem in the continent of Europe. In other respects, the European Commission has followed the discussion in the European economy because we have considered this to be part of the European Protocol on the financial market. In view of what happened. However, I believe that there is good reason for us to place this extra effort on our local program. A question is, Should we not discuss these issues of the committee, which is making a white book about the financial system because we see a very fast development in these sectors, although I see the view that eventually we need to find international solutions in order to create good and efficient regulations, such as water. A senator mentioned. One of the probing factors to deal with in this discussion is that the ideologies on which this system is based are not personal and without a central government. This is in part what people have found exciting about this virtual money, yes, which is just a good word, and this mystery about the publishers of virtual funds is in total opposition to the legal structure that we have created in the financial market, where we put an extra emphasis on transparency, we expect a very sophisticated precautionary check, to increase the transparency of financial functions, and the surveillance is based on our building up needed trust in the financial system. This is what we've been talking about in this room, increasing the transparency of the financial system and strengthening all the resources to increase it, and then suddenly we get into this new reality based on complete transparency. As I said before, we do not have a special rule. Iceland's delay has been very closely monitored for the development of these matters. Up to now, virtual funds have been used very little in public service in Iceland. In the near future, the late bank feels that the use or trade of virtual funds would be unlikely to disrupt financial stability. As we have examples, however, this may change rapidly so that this is how the situation will continue to be followed in Europe. At the European Union scene, there is a solution that will likely involve a change in the joint European principle. It is important to look to international solutions, since this world does not respect geographic boundaries. Because of what? However, I would like to mention that on January 31 of this year, a member of the U.S. Marshal's Department issued a warning about virtual funds for the public. So did the Ministry of Economics on February 1, of this year, so the government has warned the public of the dangers that may be involved in the use of virtual funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u32	Mr. President. Thank you for your excellent tour by the highest level. Prime Minister. It is true, a resource use is a point that we must place considerable emphasis on taking into consideration in this discussion. It has become considerable, that I understand, but it has not been for any measurement of exactly how much it is, and it worries me. I know there are others, e.g. The operators of the electrical power centres that have to provide for this electricity, which is also concerned. That's interesting, considering the definition of the Penitentiary. Now it is limited in that it reaches e.g. not over smart contracts. It shows something that it's all on the edge. This technology is so new that new things are being invented almost every day, so it is very difficult to download an accurate definition. This is one of the things that will be confined to governments. Admittedly, it is also a significant risk of money laundering, just because of this transparency, that it will be used by organized crime. The rules are necessary, but in view of the small amount of international legislation, there is an opportunity for Iceland to discuss the matter. I'm aware that in Iceland there are stakeholders with this kind of activity that are interested in participating in creating a good and general playground for this, so that national interests and innovations can be found to be balanced. Maybe this white book should agree completely, but looking to the stakeholders would be good advice. I'm finally asking the highest. Whether there is reason to try to create a special team for this virtual money or battery or what to call what the technical factors are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording the case again. Up to now, pricing has revealed signs of venture capitalism rather than currency in the standard sense. To date, virtual funds do not meet the conditions we use to store valuables, i.e. Standard currency. This is based primarily on supply and demand, and no government is responsible for the stability or security of such a system. It is somehow the nature of the virtual wealth that we have already seen, we can say that a part of the attraction of virtual funds is not controlled, it does not lie to conventional currency rules, but as a result, it is a very high risk associated with its use, and a very unstable price that has been identified on virtual funds that can be found on web sites where the value of the key media can be looked up. Now I'm in the newest words. It shows that this is a very exhilarating medium. As I mentioned earlier, evolution has actually been in total opposition to the way we have wanted to develop the financial system. There will be a system of shadow, we can say. I agree with what. A senator mentioned in some way that we need to set up the matter, perhaps more than just observing the development of events in Europe. I mentioned a earlier white book about the financial system. I think I'll take it only with me to see how we can take this to further consideration at the council and the Commission. This is a project, and maybe it's a project that may be in cooperation with the Secret Bank, the Ministry of Presidency, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, for it is important that we be very aware of the risks involved in the use of virtual funds but also possible possibilities such as what. A senator points out. I don't think this is the last thing we're going to talk about these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u34	V.E.G. President. First and foremost, I want to thank the highest. Secretary of finance for having an answer to my inquiry. As everybody knows, it's about 38% of all partners, i.e. the registered partner, owned by Iceland's Pension Fund, has been identified by professionals that it is unattainable that possession is in the hands of a person so far away from his property as the pension fund is, i.e. that they do not have direct control in many cases and that they are such a sleeping shareholder, if we can put it that way. So I present this inquiry, which is in four teams, and I hope that a minister will give a reply. Common things, e.g. The State Department of Pension, then I'm talking about both the A and the B sections, may be 10◯14% in very large companies, HB Granda, Högs, and others. In many of the big companies, the pension fund is combined with a dominant share, so it's not that you ask whether the Pension Fund of the Government's Committees made itself a owners policy, whether it was published, and whether the Pension Fund required a management seat or made a partnership with other pensions to seek out a government seat. It can also be noted that large companies, such as the market, are large. Norwegian oil fund, make very rich demands to the companies they invest in. In other words, a trust fund has some sort of code that includes. the work of the investors in which they live, the ideals of their management, etc. Now it is true that although I am not a sponsor for envy or for any of such feelings, I think that, for example, I do. In companies where the pay of the highest executives is up to 100 million dollars, the pension fund of government workers is a major factor. every year, which is about 20 times the minimum wage in the respective enterprises. That's what you're going to do in the fancy business that goes in the fall when you hear the tone of union officers that thinks it's a total non-work. I am absolutely convinced and I want confirmation from a minister or his opinion that this will be a problem in a bargain in the fall. This super-priority of individual employees of large companies whose pension funds are going to be a problem. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to give me a very clear answer to these four questions addressed to him in this inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u35	A respectable president. This is a very big and important subject, and I want to start by saying that for the past year, I took the initiative as the prime minister to file a report on the role of pensions in the professional world. This report was published in January, and it contains such vast material on the expenses of life, the major changes that have occurred in recent years, e.g. in 2010, of which about 17% of the shares were taken by the pension fund, of which the registered stocks have already reached 50% in the 2015 report. This is not to be taken into account by an indirect possession that may be passed through a stock store. So it's clear that we're looking at quite a lot different landscapes from what used to be, where the pensions lay about 20% and then leaving today with about half. This requires all kinds of questions, including such as what to do. A senator stands up here, about how the pension fund intends to employ himself in view of the fact that they have become the dominant force in Icelandic employment and how they are careful to handle their positions, what they have done for themselves, what governments might do by changing the law. These and many other questions will be considered in the January report. I'm just gonna start with that, before I go into the suggestions given by the staff, to briefly address the questions raised. It is, in particular, watching the Pension Fund of the State. Now it's the problem with the secretary of finance to get information on the head of the state's Penitentiary that he is, of course, that a private righter's law, does not hear administrative matters under the Ministry, but I think it's probably something we can do to handle questions. First of all, if we have somehow been used by the Ministry for the owner policy of the stock market of the head of the state's Penitentiary, I refer to him as his private rights, but the fund has established its shareholder policy and was adopted in February of the last year, and in general, the pension funds have set themselves up such a shareholder or tenant policy as well. shows what the funds require of governance, environment and morals in the companies they are part of. It also provides an overview of what measures the owners' obligations are and how investments are followed and can be linked to administrative, votes and proposals for corporate partnerships. I can't exactly explain how the Penitentiary Fund has promoted itself in individual companies, but it is this opinion whether the senator would want us to be, despite the failure of the fund to represent us in the Ministry of finance, would call for answers to such questions. The Senate could, as well as a proper Senate committee and the fund would be happy to answer for its share and could do it directly to the council without the ministry itself, but in general, it seems to me that it is, in each case, an assessment of how men will behave and use themselves, but all within the substitution that the LS have already agreed. Thus, I have not, and in the Ministry, information about exactly how the Penitentiary Fund has worked at the main meetings or stockholder meetings. And as for the pay, I can only agree with that as a matter of course. A senator says that there is reason to be especially careful there, and the pension funds cannot yield responsibility when they have become that great force that I was pointing to earlier that men are not working to the point where it causes confusion in a labour market. It's just the proper tip. A senator makes that point. Then I'm going to review a little more carefully what suggestions are made for the group of people who could be affected here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for the answers he has made and will certainly study this report that I did not know had come out. However, the reason why I asked the highest question. The Minister's direct questions about the State Pension Fund are that the last time I knew there were two members of the Ministry of finance represented in the management of this fund. It tells me that with the head of the state's Penitentiary, the Ministry of finance acts like a professionalist and has two men against three people from the employee organisations. So I thought that it was right to ask the secretary of finance these questions because I took a look at the two employees of the Department of Economic Affairs who sit in charge of the Pension Fund as representatives of the state of the fund and minister, therefore, with direct access to those employees to follow up the direction of policy. I have to state that while the fund is an independent person, and not dependent on the Ministry of Economics as such, it is so that in the same way that professional drivers have said that it is normal for them to be directors of the Department of Pension because of the fact that they are exorbitant of much of the fees that run into this fund and want to have some effect there, I don't think that financial ministers at any given time, the Ministry of finance, will have the same effect I'm calling back there. I'm glad a minister agrees with me that a super wages will get in the way. I'm afraid that's a lot and recent news reports of individual actors who have even received millions of dollars of dollars for an increase in a month, that must make bargains more difficult to deal with in the autumn, and it must be much more difficult to form essential trust between parties in these talks because the agreements that are in hand must be of enormous importance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u37	A respectable president. What we've put the most emphasis on this is that people follow the law and that people follow the course that I follow earlier. Shareholdership LSR includes taking into account the aspects of the pension fund stressing the basis for the management of the enterprise in which it invests. It says that the LS requires that companies set up a work policy that meets the requirement of partner law and that they take into account established guidelines on the management of enterprises, perhaps in general terms, but it is quite clear that they want them to be organized and to follow a more preconceived policy of the worksheet. I'd like to encourage all who are interested in this case to examine the report published in January because it is so grandly educated about the tremendous change in the financial resources of Icelandic employment and the indications it presented, including: that the need for pension is generally clear investment policy in the long run and aims to increase the importance of foreign possessions in order to minimize risks. It was even there. The question of whether we should oblige them to increase the percentage of foreign possessions was being addressed, but the conclusion was that there was no need for them to do so. It also suggests that pension funds are required to shape the management policies of pension funds as owner of employment companies, that should be a clear legal obligation to do so, and that they should be obliged to publish at least A annual report on how to interact with companies they invest in and how to vote for shareholders meetings. That's what I think would be a great improvement. Then there are other suggestions regarding flexibility in the system, individual access to more liberally used savings. [[The president calls.]] The report, of course, will discuss some aspects of the competition, which, of course, have become a huge case that does not really exist in a society where pension funds do not have a significant or dominant share. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u38	President. I'd like to start by saying that the EEA deal is the basis for the most important international community involved in Iceland. We have an enormous interest in maintaining the agreement with all its advantages, but at the same time securing our active interests there. There is reason to rejoice, for the Council has approved a request to the secretary of state on the benefits and shortcomings of our involvement in this agreement. I trust we will have a professional and neutral evaluation of the situation there. I would like to agree on the reasons why I asked to have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister, it is the way certain groups have tried to talk the EU contract down, as if there were no two-way marketing work and there was no need for interest. Thus, two government groups at their national meeting agreed to conclusions that seem to be directly used against the so-called third energy package of the EEA team and the members of the Independence Party have given them their views in the media, both in the country and in Norway, that this is a very important law, a matter of control over our resources. Now, Mr. President, these are informed senators, and they listen when they express themselves. These agreements and statements can be used in connection with what may even be the case. says a new report by the secretary of state, recently discussed at the General Assembly, by permission of the president: The EEA Convention has many opportunities to influence the shape of new EEA regulations. ... For example, Icelandic experts offer participation in expert groups that the Commission has consulted on the shape of legislation. When all of this is involved, questions arise undeniably. Clearly, our opportunities to care for interests are there, and they are clear. Then there are the questions: Where are the concerns that have been concerned about EU interest management? I'd like to be cleared from the highest level. Minister: What are the main views and interests of Iceland regarding the EU's third energy package, which includes legislation in the field of the internal energy market? Of course, some of these answers can be found at least in a clear memo recently composed at the request. Minister on these matters. It showed that those who had read the directive knew that the third energy package in no government's control over our energy resources, the right of Iceland to determine the conditions for the use of energy resources, or energy sources, remain unchanged, and that Iceland's guardianship of transfecting cables is unfashionable. I'd like to have a minister confirm that the concern of her colleagues is out of the air. Secondly, I ask the highest. Minister: What approach have the Icelandic government had by the early stages of work, i.e. The shape of the legislature? How did they express the views of the Icelanders? Therefore, I wish to answer the question of the field of this work and the data that can be found on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u39	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for this request for the work of the Icelandic government due to the introduction of the third EU energy package. I will answer the three questions contained in the inquiry. The first question, therefore, is to answer that the main attitudes and interests of Iceland that touch the third EU energy package were aimed at obtaining specific adaptations and exceptions which take into account Icelandic conditions and which are consistent with the way the first and second EU energy package were taken into the EEA Convention and introduced into the Member States's law, first by the dom of electrical law in 2003, and then by subsequent changes in that law. As a result of the decision made by the European Commission in May 2017 on the uptake of the third energy package in the EEA Convention, Iceland is granted a form of access from the specific 3rd energy package, and they are based on commissions from the General Assembly. First of all, Iceland received an exception from the requirements of the third energy directive of the EU for the possession of transport companies from other operations of energy markets. In our case, this means that the implementation of the directive does not require changes in the current possession of the Landsnet and any changes such as these may be on our own, but not according to EU directives. Second, the decision taken by the joint EEA committee suggests that if Iceland can demonstrate difficulties with the management of its electrical system after its implementation, Iceland is allowed to apply for a prior application for the EFTA monitoring programme from certain directives, including about the separation of distribution companies. Is it even? Based on the view that Iceland is an isolated electrical system in the sense of the directive. Third, Iceland is given an exception from every form of the third energy package that affects natural gas, as such markets are not available here on land. Fourth, adaptations for the EFTA state of ACER authority were adopted, the energy market partner. Part of the third energy pack is a special regulation on ACER. According to it, ACER receives authority to solve issues between national power monitors, which is then the National Power Institute, which is responsible for the cross-border transfer of electricity. Within the EFTA program, ESAs receive these authority. This is in accordance with the two support systems of the EEA Convention and is based on past precedents. As for Iceland's general interest in freedom and competition in an electronic exchange based on the first energy pack in electricity law in 2003, it can be noted that in 2011, a report by the National Institute of Economics was requested by the University of Iceland for corporate separation in an electronic market. The report shows that with the above changes, including The demand for separation and competitiveness of energy companies has developed competition for the exchange of electricity in Iceland and has resulted in benefits for both the public and the country's companies. So for questions two and three about the access to the development of the third energy package, the EU legislation on the third energy package is from 2009 and was being developed in the previous years. The Icelandic government watched this work and noted that in a report by the Industrial Minister submitted to the 135th legislation in 2007, the proposal for a third energy directive was introduced in September 2007, and at the beginning of 2008, further recommendations for energy directives were presented. The Industrial Ministry and State Department were closely looking for the development of the third EU energy package at this time and was actively involved in the work of the EFTA and the European Commission. The aims of Iceland were presented at this site, based on Iceland's attitude to maintain the resources and adaptations that Iceland received on the production of the EU first and second energy package in the EEA Convention. Following a sentence of the third energy package in 2009, it has been worked at the field of EFTA recording into the EEA Convention. The International Parliament has been regularly informed of the labours involved in negotiations with the EU on the need for adaptation and access. May here, for example. mention a memo for the State Department, dated June 14, 2010, February 10, 2012, May 28, 2014, June 27, 2014, November 7, 2014, January 9, 2015, February 23, 2015, and June 27, 2016. There have also been information on the situation of the third energy package in recent years on the job board and the General Commission. At the end, I would also like to mention that this subject has shown that there have been some questions. I don't think they're the kind of people I'd like to ask, and I think they've developed in the right direction. I've asked some of those questions myself, that was even. That's why I was contacted by Dr. Ólafur Jóhannes Einarsson, who later wrote a memo. A senator came in. That's been very informative. In the name of informed discussion, maintenance, and questions, I feel that the matter has actually been won in the right direction. I rejoice if there are questions and experiences that concern you, especially when you can answer them with good evidence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u40	President. I want to thank you. A senator and a captain for taking this matter on the program, as well as the highest. Minister for clear and clear answers. In fact, it is very important in this discussion that we get the facts out of the way, since the debate on this particular matter has been based, I believe in significant ignorance of the case, and in the media, there has been some alleged power supply in the country's energy resources without any compromise. It is indeed tragic to see deep - seated, we can say, political and administrative classes that have been present for years and decades at governments, such as the forward Party and the Independence Party, who are systematically speaking down the European Economic Area Convention without having any idea where to go, without having any idea what the review of such agreements should include or what opportunity over the head is for a review of that contract. [[The president calls.]] This is the most important international contract ever made by Iceland, which is the basis for business in the country. [[The president calls.]] We should not make a trip here without a promise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u41	Mr. President. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir Thanks to Víglundsson. A minister for the broad answer and carefulness, as it is hoped and cited, is very illuminating. This process has been followed since the beginning. Therefore, you wonder if some political cones are being tried by certain members of the Independence Party. Have the members of the Independence Party competed with the Central Party in which to make a statement about perjurying the EEA contract? On the other hand, I would like to welcome the emphasis that comes on at the highest level. travel and industrial minister, but also the emphasis shown including in the Foreign Minister's report on the importance of the EEA Convention, the most important business contract made by Icelanders. How important it is that those members of Congress express themselves about the contract do so with responsibility, and they do so firmly, and they do so with logic! The reason is that the Icelandic government has obviously been on the watch when it comes to this; they have been guarding the interests of Icelanders, energy users at home. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd especially like to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u42	A respectable president. I can't help coming up here and making comments to the words that followed. paritaprevir A Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir agreed to the European Economic Area Convention. It's sad, and it's so dangerous in politics when politicians aren't ready to reconsider things, when politicians are running from the fact that since 1994 the nature of the EEA deal has changed. The whole arrangement has changed, too. The knowledge of the contract has changed in Iceland and Brussels. In many parts of the world, there have been intervening changes. The needle needles for solutions are different from those previously used. That's why you're probably reevaluating, reevaluating, this deal. This does not mean that Iceland is leaving Europe in any way. Not at all. We must have the courage to do so unless the Cradle Councils are such Europeans that from there it is so good that we can all be swallowed and nothing can be criticized and considered. Of course we don't, but all we're saying here is that it's a contract worth reevaluating on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u43	Mr. President. I can't let it pass for me to get involved in this discussion. I think that in all political discussions on important matters, it is right to look to the facts. I'm glad that in the discussion of the third energy package, the facts have been presented, but it also shows how easy it is to mislead important discussions with the bickers, statements that have no evidence to support, and then leads to one another, and men cannot be seen. Of course, you may always be aware of the EEA agreement and considering its importance and role, but I think you should approach that discussion with a very high degree of responsibility, because what's underneath is not just a third energy package or some reserved object such as import of meat and the like, where people want to take it down to reserved pieces, but a very large thing underneath. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You should look at the bigger picture, and you should not be afraid of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u44	A respectable president. I'm going to thank the highest. A minister for clear answers as well as for any members of the council who have spoken here hoping that they all realized that the purpose of the discussion was exactly this, to get facts on the table, and to talk about our interests. I realize from the discussion that there is a need for awareness about the importance of the European Economic Area Convention and the active participation of Ministers in ensuring that proper information on European directives and work at them is found in the discussion. We simply cannot afford to undermine the public belief in cooperation on the basis of misinformation. It is as dangerous as it is to have accurate information and to discuss it and to discuss evolution. It is also clear that the government's anxieties are out of the open. However, government ministers need to work hard to increase the spirituality of their own party members in the interests of which they have been cared for and cared for in this international community. It has been shown that we have many clear and wide opportunities to be actively involved in the shape of the rules adopted here on the basis of the EEA Group. It's important that we make the knots, including. By making available experts who can take advantage of the case and the awake politicians, we can take full advantage of these opportunities. If there is a desire to have even greater influence, it is natural for the nation to choose to update the EEA Convention, over a department, by entering the European Union, now in another discussion. I would like to complete my case with another question to the highest level. Minister, it's this: Will this matter be taken before the council this spring? - Thanks for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-23-53.u45	Mr. President. Thank you so much for this discussion. There are some things I wanted to come in on. First of all, I'd kind of like to combine the viewpoints of each other. On the other hand, members of the convention of exhilaration and the central class because of what may be the case. The senators came in was absolutely correct. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, the EEA Convention is very important to us and, on the other hand, it is not unusual and really normal, healthy and healthy to ask questions as far as it is concerned and the future that is truly available. Of course, we've been watching the European Union develop very much since we picked up the EEA deal. And so to be perfectly clear, not that I think someone is in doubt about it, it's just my opinion that it's the EEA deal that's good, but it's not in the European Union. That's why I don't think it's unusual that we look at how the European Union has evolved from the EEA Convention. Of course, he's 25 years old. I'm sure he'll appreciate the experience. We have two pillars, that's the foundation, that's what counts. We've seen expeditation, both in the matter of personal protection and in the financial market. If you should choose a stroke to take into consideration the exuberance, it is, as I have understood it, in fact, more expeditation than is contained in this third energy package. Whether the matter should come into the council, I have it on my Constitution. But the government needs to be put back in advance before my affairs enter the council. It's a minister of state who's offering it, so I'm afraid to answer on behalf of him whether the case will come in at this council or not. But as I say, it's at least at my Constitution and I'm sure it's with him, too.
