ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u1	Mr. President. I just want to make a mistake that Piratar and I are going to be sitting by this vote. The matter is late, brought by a majority of committees, then five out of nine, no discussion in the Committee about it except when it was delivered, little information presented, hurriedly, and so on in the fall of which it will be better covered. But until we do a little business overseeing what this all means, the Pirats are going to sit next to us. There's a lot of good in this, there's a plan to be put in place, making sure that in this case the highest employer's pay is followed by pay, of course public employees, which we need to examine precisely what this means. There are many good things in this regard, but many questions also go unsatisfied, so we will sit next to each other in that vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u2	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on bill to correct a change in the law on the operation of terrorism and the funding of terrorism, No. 64/2006, with subsequent changes. The committee again discussed the matter after the second. and received a memo from the Ministry of Justice that made it appear to be an adjustment to the budget. 1156, where changes to 2. The bill for explanation, as well as the value of the bill. In the Ministry memo, today. The June 8, 2018, referred to viewpoints in another memo sent by the Ministry during early and modern times. May 30th, 2018. In the June 8, issue of this journal, the Ministry considered it inappropriate to deviate from the definition of the bill, pointing out that in comments on 2 g. The bill's report contains a list of functions that fall outside the standard range of the bill. The committee discussed this. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Ministry's viewpoint and suggests that the bill will remain the same. Sæmundsson's font will be signed under notice that digital wallet is not specified in the law. Ólafur Ísleifsson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under this writing of Óli Björn Kárason, Chairman Brumur, Brynjar of Níelsson, Simonsson, Birgir, Ármannsson of Aarg, Harðardóttir G. Farur, daughter of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásgerður K. Gylfadóttir, and Þýstein Þorsteinn Sæmundsson of Sæmund, with the above notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u3	Mr. President. This case has its origin in a bill taken from the entire council of the Gangsters. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson is a 1st transporter, and other members of the Gangs with him. The Council of Parliamentary Directive is about hiding financial and economic ministers from providing law no later than November 1, this year as a release from tax pay-improvement on social assistance. These improvements are growing so that they depend on no other means of service or tools for the disability and pension workers. Such as to the fact that these improvements have been taxpaying as if they were income, which is, in fact, wrong. This is what you could compare to the cost you have made. The case has been given a lot of support here at the General Parliament, first in the Economic and Business Committee, which has described the matter as being supported and considered unnatural and unreasonable to be taxed, as if it were paid in the case of a remuneration without a reimbursement for exorbitant costs. This is the very essence of the matter. On the basis of a review of the bill given to them by the members of Stockholm's councils, it was thought that the matter would need a little more thought over the more tax and other such matters. It had to be planned to make this proposal to make a resolution to hide a financial and economic minister to provide a bill on this subject. This proposal for action is pronounced by members of the Stockholm people, as well as by one representative from every political party sitting here at the General Assembly. I want to use this opportunity to thank you for the great support this subject has received. This involves a great act of justice for people who are in a state of distress. Although the total financial value of the budget is not awesomely high, it is money that can be of great importance to individuals. I want to reiterate my gratitude for the great support the matter has received, and this council proposal is enjoying. It involves a very strong message to the Commission and instructions to the highest level. A minister to present the bill of this material no later than November 1, in the fall of a future. I thank all those guys. Congress officials who discussed the previous discussion of the synonym and declared very supportive of this matter. I would also like to thank a financial and business committee, and especially its chairman in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm only in this chair to renew the support the Middle Ages have shown this matter of justice. This is a fine example of how we can agree, since we can if we want to. It is hoped that we can in some matters that are truly important - and there are some, including. Tonight - put down our weapons and unite in bringing them forward. I congratulate the people, and a traveller in particular, though not here in the hall, by bringing the case all the way. I give clear support to this and hope that it will get a good solution and then continue because it will not be opened even if it is in the aus. Of course, we must keep the government in mind so that the matter will not go on falling asleep to the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u5	A respectable president. I would like to recommend more of the Agency's activities of changing Iceland law. First, I'd like to say that the aim of the bill on which we deal is primarily to promote the cooperation of industry and the government and to increase cooperation and integration and, therefore, the better use of funds when it comes to marketing Iceland and Icelandic products on foreign soil. It is also aim to explain the administrative position of an Icelandic agency, in view of the fact that both the Federal Accounting and the World Council's agent have come up with comments on the ambiguousness of whether or not there is a government agency. In view of this, a lot of the committee's time was being discussed on this very matter. At the meeting of the Committee, there were a number of members and are mentioned in the committee opinion. News came from four sources, a travel agency, the Contestants, the Department of Employment and State. We have become more and less aware of the comments made. The bill on the subject is based on a considerable amount of long hours and a lot of work within the State Department and the government of the entire government, as well as at the National Association of Employment. Foreign Ministers set up the fall 2013 task force to investigate the overall marketing and international products and services, with the objective of considering whether it would be possible to promote the marketing application in the past few years. That may be the case. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who then served that position and set out that fine team of cooperaters. Since then, the law is designed to introduce the ideas presented in Iceland's work. At the beginning of the bill, Iceland's Office is an automaton, and we met mainly with the view of an agent of the Generals and, in fact, the National Accounting Office, to clearly define what Iceland is. This can be seen from discussions that were here at the time when the Icelandic law went into effect. Congress officials did not expect public matters, at least not conventional, to be involved. Nevertheless, that led to the conclusion of the Al Hallen's agent when he made that assessment. So it was specifically noted that there are laws that would be acceptable to public management in this case. More of it. The Foreign Affairs Committee suggests paragraph 1 and 2. put it this way: A private institution is a center of self - interest that has been disfellowshipped on a private rights basis with independent financial responsibilities and operates according to a special organizational registry. Iceland's Office is the exception of income taxes under the regulations on income taxes, and it's not a government law for them. On the other hand, much discussion was made in the Committee on Information Act. The original bill was assumed that the information law was not valid in the Iceland Office, but more part believes that it is still important and therefore suggested a change of 1. The bill. We emphasize the need for transparency in the activities of the Iceland lab and for specific regulations. When a discussion on public shopping law came up, the bill expected that the laws would not apply. As a result of a further examination and treatment, it was considered whether it should be handled specifically, and it came to the view that Iceland's management plans made the law not valid for the operation, so there is no need for specifically to be excluded from the law. However, the committee feels that in the event of an incident in the activities of an Icelandic agency covered by public shopping laws, the law will take on them. So we agree that this law will be removed from the bill. It had also been suggested that the bill does not apply. The review of the Contestant Commission found that this factor is critical and concludes with the Commission that there is no need to specify that it does not end the law on all activities. On the other hand, we refer to a greater portion of it. Foreign Directors to the principle that any business should depend on competitive laws, but also on the regulations of the law. In view of this, the greater part contributes to a change of 1. The bill, of course, of the loss of the operation of the Iceland Institute of Contestation. By doing so, the greater part feels that the bill is completely devoid of any doubt that the bill is in full harmony with 53, 54. The EEA Convention. The greater part of the claim, though, is government and professional cooperation. The work of an Icelandic agency is based on the work of an Icelandic firm and an Icelandic company working together on projects that depend on and contribute to the export and marketing of companies abroad. In such an environment, there is always some sort of consultation, but we believe that cooperation is within the framework of the lawgiver's already marketed in Article 15. A competitive song. A crucial debate was created in the National Export and Market Council Commission, which has the role of establishing a longer-term export and market policy. It shows that, as most of the views are heard and that in the bill series, 29 members of the marketing board were expected to be appointed by both the employment organisation and the council, public authorities. We suggest that this fine counsel expands further and becomes 31 men. In addition, the European Union of Icelandic rural society and a team of market agencies for the purpose of the Council. We thus believe that it is certain that all of the country's views and market agencies will be added. Then we also recommend that the Environment and Resource Minister be one of the ten agents appointed to the council without any appointment. In addition, there are also more ministers and members of the council who do not have a government residence. Is it, then, merely thought that there will be wide agreement over long - term trends? The government of Iceland today is seven men, but it was expected in the bill shows that it would be five men. There was quite a discussion within the committee, and the agreement concluded that we would suggest that the number of people not be changed so that the government of Iceland continues to sit seven representatives. We believe that it is important to appoint a representative of the government by the traveling, industrial, and innovation ministers, and is primarily in the light of the lawsuits under which the Minister hears and turns to innovation, intelligence, and tourism. Thus, we do not make the transition that the employment organization has still a greater part in the administration, as expected at the beginning, and that they appoint four representatives, two foreign ministers, and local, industrial, and innovation ministers alone. Certain discussions were also created at the National Reunion Committee and its role in the Iceland Office, but it had been suggested by the Ministry that the State Accountor revise the accounts, which was a sentence that had fallen from the current law, would come back. However, after a discussion with the People's Accounting and the review of it, the Committee agrees that this is not appropriate because it is actually a State Accounting job to monitor institutions that have a confirmed organizational record. We agreed to the comments made by the Government Accounting that it was unchanged from other automatons. We will make changes in the terms of validation so that the law will take effect on September 1 instead of July 1. At the same time, we suggest that a new provisional principle should be made that the Minister should evaluate within three years of the activities of Iceland and the export and market council, on the other hand, to see if the law's purpose has been met, but it is a preliminary law-enforcement principle that a minister should order a working group to review the management plan in view that a great debate was created about it and was also set up in the paper with the bill that there was no suitable management plan for such as the local labour agency, which is a partnership between public and sector. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. No doubt I could talk more about this excellent bill, but I can see that time is running out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u6	A respectable president. I like others to thank for this matter we've been discussing on the State Department; it might have been all right to cover it a little longer and more closely and deal with more opinions than was done. However, the improvements and the changes made from the bill are all for improvement, so I'm taking it right now. In some ways, however, I do not feel that the changes that would have been needed and that in some respects did not really take on at least one very important factor for Iceland's export help and marketing application, and I'm doing a little of that below. That's been pointed out for a very long time, including by the 2009 Constitution, the budget set up for export or market application is too widely distributed throughout the system. One of the points mentioned in the 2013 appointment report in the 2015 work group is just about the budget. I would've liked to see that this bill was done and at the end of it here at the General Assembly would have had more action, i.e. that we had simply begun to map the funds placed in the export service, the market, and to place them all in one place. It's unnatural that I know, and not promising to go, to have my powers so scattered. The report reports more than one location in the report On Iceland, mentioned at the outset. In view of the loss of part, this matter is considered to be a matter of consideration, but it is to be started with the strange work started, i.e. first you are about to create a law on the Iceland Office, change the nature of the Agency, which uses proben, is very important to define. It is designed to coexist with the state and private people, without in effect, the law is smart. On the other hand, the bill shows, and in reality we agree in itself, the Foreign Affairs Committee, that a law code has to be written about this form of society. It makes you wonder if you are not starting on the wrong end. I begin my minor opinion by wondering. It would have been more wise to start from making the law and then go on trying the Agency into the legal structure. A National Institute of Self - Control, which is an arrangement that is, in many respects, and likely, the form that is only better today when we look at the possibilities available. However, in very important matters, the State is still under the jurisdiction and control of the Agency. The number of directors was changed from five to seven in order to get a larger width on the board and to ensure the presence of certain members. Although more part of the government had a job life, the government continues to take more part in the export and market. I think that's a mistake. I would have wanted to see that the market Council had more work to do, too, because it's a job that I think is the best place for the economy. That's why it hits me a little, I think it's a little strange, to see that the highest. The minister of the Independence Party should not provide a bill aimed at strengthening the role of the employment and, in fact, the private rights of the individual in this matter. Of course, the government should include a service contract with the job life or with those who use or maintain the ministry and make sure that they have everything, laws and rules that are normal, money comes, and customers of our office, which are around the world, wonderful people, are available, and there is a contract between how to use the knowledge there. It's a little surprising that an independent party is actually strengthening the support of the government in Iceland by the way it's over here. They do the same by not accepting this budget case that I mentioned earlier tonight. This is my subject, and I published tables in the committee's opinion to emphasize how indistinguishable it is, where the funds come from, and where they go. We were not given a complete picture of where the money comes from and where it goes. Of course, we can get it all together, but we would have had to get this information into the committee so that we could understand it better. But I realized that when I started this job as Minister of 2013, it is one of the key elements to reach, i.e. how we make the best use of the money. It becomes obvious to those who have considered the matter, became involved, that there is one of our fundamental problems, the many people who have the money, and the fact that we are sending out a misleading message into the world. We're not selling Iceland one voice, so to speak. They're selling fish, fish, lamb perhaps, ski and anything possible, and Iceland for tourists, but are we talking one voice? We did a certain experiment with the Inspired by Iceland project that succeeded in a very successful, successful effort. But we also know that there are not necessarily all who were participants in it. It was also not decided that the Inspired by Iceland, so that I took one example, would be used over selling water, selling hooks, fish, horses, and gods can know what. There's still a misdirected message. We're just such a small country with little money to market us that everything will be much better. Of course, we can be right on time, and we reevaluate this money in too many places and we don't watch how we can get the most out of this money; hopefully we'll find that later we can fix it. There's a little eager to finish this case today, only to be hurried; for unnecessary, I think. Of course, I have a certain understanding that the Agency needs to be changed. That's why we started our work in 2013, so we'd go on a process to change it. But I feel like we're taking a step. Some can say that it is better to take a little step and a good step than a big step, not knowing what you are going to do. But I think key elements will remain, more dignified president. I reiterate here at the end of what I said earlier that I miss a little bit of not taking over this huge important factor that is the money, the way we get to the project by putting them in one place. It is not being made up of this marketing plan. So reiterate that I would have wanted to see that my job life is more responsible for doing this work because there is knowledge, there are the people who are trying to sell fish or spit or anything around the world. They're not in the Ministry of State or the travel Department or elsewhere, they're out in the field. On the other hand, we are in charge, at the Ministry of State, at the management of tourism and all other resources, to be prepared to assist these people, to create a setting that fits them. Because there's the people who know what they're doing when this comes. A respectable president. I don't mind the bill. I will, of course, support it, but I would have hoped we could have done it a little better. We could have done that if we had had a little more time and the minister had a little more ambition for the interests of the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to briefly enter this discussion about committee opinion and change proposals for a bill in Iceland law. I'm not going to discuss the whole thing, but because I got in touch with the market rooms of the country's 1st. I would like to welcome especially the adjustment suggested regarding them. As noted in a committee study, the need for a broad range of groups to sit in the export and market. It is suggested that the group of members of this group be joined by two members appointed to be member of the Council by the European Union and by a team of national market rooms. This is what I consider extremely important, and in line with other government goals on the distribution of tourists in most parts of the country. For example, I can point out that in the past we were agreeing to a community plan, but one of the initiatives is a policy plan which is derived from the market, and we will inevitably have to connect with the work of an Iceland lab. It is therefore of great importance that this proposal should be developed to link the activities of the marketing agency with Iceland because it is always difficult to cooperate when the work site and cooperation routes are not defined.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u8	V.E.G. President. I agree with what has been observed in many other people who have discussed the affairs of Iceland, that it is good to find this common thread, the common sound of wanting to promote the European Union rather, sharpen and explain its role, which may have been done, and not least to resolve the uncertainty of the Agency's administrative position. I strongly agree that the step being taken with this bill is correct, i.e. that this will be a self-employment agency, a private rights institution, and no longer depend on what is listed by government institutions. It is a vital step to cover our export value, how we are going to promote image and increase our value in exporting, then this is important. But this has been a little complicated by saying that the bill that came from the State Department simply wasn't enough and that it didn't work well enough. Therefore, I would like to express my gratitude to all members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and especially to the Chairman and the manager who have done their best to resolve this matter. I stress that our aim is to promote the role of an Iceland lab, to make it more efficient, deeper, so that a local agency can be the real sponsor of our companies when it comes to exporting. You can draw out and can certainly ask, as I have asked myself, " Why are we taking that turn? ' The marketing fee is taken from the executives, we have just legalized important financial laws, including the market income institutions, and then we have the first case, which is an exception to an important principle of greater legal discipline. But the companies and the careers have put a lot of pressure on this, understandable. They want to be in this relationship, which must be more efficient, deeper, public, in order to promote more targeted marketing. But I also wondered, " Could this cup not have been taken by professional life and then cooperated with the State? ' But after much consultation, in fact, for years that began in 2013 or 2014, it is the landing. I'd like to back her up. I want it to be directed to the highest. The secretary of finance and economics has to bring a bill to a new council that encourages and sharpens the environment of the public when it goes into cooperation with private citizens. I hope there'll be more of that. I'm well able to picture the government's cooperation not only with private people but also with health care, we can talk about cooperation on airports, their operations and their constructions, and other means of transportation and other things. There must be a bill, a PPP framework as it is called, where there is a sharpness in this case. Only with regard to Iceland itself, I see that time runs very quickly from us, then I would like to agree that the changes in the case of the Committee treatment are very beneficial. They're sharpening the competitive watch or role, the information law is being drawn up in part, which is fine. And most important, linking the market offices as indicated by members of the Committee to assign the more detailed role. It's all good and good. I agree, in part, with what was said in the case of the day. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson, who has a minor opinion. I would've liked to see it clearly. That's why I criticize the fact that the bill wasn't working too well. The breadwork had not been won. This whole thing hadn't been won. We want our money that comes from the state to be in the best use. We are not convinced that this is the case, because projects are still throughout the Ministry, about various institutions, and we do not have the complete picture that encourages us to do what we can to promote our opportunities and attendance when it comes to the export of Icelandic products. In many ways, there is a special opportunity that we missed, and this is the responsibility of a foreign minister. But it has been done well in the Committee, this is a case I am on, I am at the majority of the committee's party because I think the matter has improved greatly in the case of the committee, but, in my opinion, it has not yet been completed. I encourage the government to get a complete picture of this so that the National Institute of Iceland can actually rot in accordance with the role it is intended for in this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u9	A respectable president. I'm gonna keep this for a minute here. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity, thank you very much. Ministers and all members of the committees why. Foreign Affairs Committee for cooperation in this case. Here we are taking an important and good step to achieve a complete supply and service arrangement, trying to achieve the overall vision and long - term policies that we need to shape together both the state and the economy. I think we'll see the big, important steps with this bill in order to clarify the role, how we see things working better together. I hope it gets caught with the bill, but of course we'll stay awake. There is a set requirement that I think is important in considering and molding new forms of society that could help shape such work around work further. A good work was being done on the committee even though times were often reversed. I thank the committees very much and look forward to observing this vital project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u10	A respectable president. I give an explanation for the Committee on Marine and Coastal Organizations from the Environment and Transport Committee. This is a major committee opinion and is accompanied by a change in eight figures. I'm thinking about asking for a little more time right away to state the opinion, but I've been asked to use it. The committee took in a number of visitors and received 30 talks and reviews. The committee has reviewed it and has considered different viewpoints. It has to be said that at the beginning there were quite a difference of opinion. The bill presents a comprehensive network legislation in marine and coastal areas. In fact, this is the first time that such legislation is given. The opinions given to the Commission were the range of values of the bill, or the limitation of the area of which the organization embraces, and hence the separation of marine and coastal areas, the order of the regional councils that deal with the organization and the life of the regional councils. The committee's visitors all agreed that working on coastal areas was essential. It was noted that there was a great desire for fishing, tourism, and chemical involvement in coastal areas, especially on the beach, as well as for new innovations. Work on coastal planning takes a considerable amount of time and therefore it is important to set the frame so that work can begin to establish a clear focal overall policy on the use, protection, activities, activities and traffic guided by sustainable areas. I'm going to try to take the points from the committee opinion that touch the adjustment proposals made by the committee. First to organise. The European Union has long called for legislation on marine and coastal planning and has kept the view that at work there will be an emphasis on the development of coastal areas, up to one seams, from the beginning of the weekend, on the custody of rural society. Under organizational legislation, communities have had organizational authority within the grid, but so far there has been no legislation on coastal planning. At work, the local community's view of coastal areas as well as the introduction and fleas of the strategy of rural society was also expressed and therefore would be cut off from their strategy. The Committee also gave the opposite view that organizational authority is important in the hands of the State rather than the administration of individual communities, as it would often be viewed as a narrower regional viewpoint on the field of rural society than in the state. In this regard, it is important to look to the interests of the entire country. The commission is that it is important to respect the Constitution of the local community's own rights but also to emphasize that there is an organization debate and to be a democratic process, to lead to governments and elected representatives where the public and stakeholders are expected to arrive. This is an area that needs to be settled both government and rural. The available bill is aimed at ensuring the wide distribution and clear planning. Next, I'm going to go back to the field of values and zones. The reviews and coverage of the visitors indicated that the set of values was not easily understood and well understood. So the committee suggests a change in word to explain it. In addition, there is a suggestion to make specific rules on a set of values in an explanation for simplicity and in order to ensure clarity and harmony. The suggestion for the set of values is: These laws apply to marine, coastal, and coastal policies. However, these laws do not apply to the use and protection of fish stocks or other living resources of the sea and seabed, except for the use of materials that depend on the ability to consume and to cook or to produce crops. At that time, there was considerable criticism of the separation between both the planning and the areas of marine and coastal policy. The Commission suggests that the internal limit or limitation of marine, coastal, and planning policies will be the same on the coast, i.e. from networks, because the policy reaches the outer limit of the economic law but where the coastal region is being developed, it reaches the reference line specified in Article 5. ... onfishingin Iceland's fishing weekend. However, a policy in marine and coastal areas is inevitable in reaching a land where sea and land interaction is maintained. Where the policy is part of land planning management, it will inevitably work together. Coastal development, on the other hand, meets the main rural network structure for network laws. The committee suggests the change in the regional councils that their representatives will make eight members, in order that the local community would have a total of three representatives in its place in the past. The European Union will continue to be with one representative, and thus further balance will be assured in the order of the regional councils, where representatives of the Council will continue four and therefore representatives of the rural community. It is suggested that decisions in the council need to be made in more ways so that there will be a minimum of six deputies to agree with a case. This is to raise concerns about government representatives having no authority in the Regional Council. At that time, the bill suggested that the environmental organisation be an observer at the regional level. The commission suggests a change, yet the importance of the preparation of the Worker Convention and the need to present itself as the most diverse perspective as soon as possible in the organizational process. Environmental groups have a special position in which they are not to care for financial interests but to protect the environment's interests in accordance with the Treaty Treaty. The committee therefore suggests the change in the absence of audience but that a minister appoints a group of consultations that will become a regional body of advice and counselling when building a coastal zone structure for that coastal area. This could make sure that the viewpoint and comments of the representatives of the interviewers are presented early in both the priming process and the development of a plan. It is expected that there will be at least five representatives designated by tourism, industrial organisations, environmental organizations, and outdoor organisations. It is suggested that the representatives of an environmental organization become two and that one of them comes from an environmental organization in the respective region. In addition, it is assumed that the local council can appoint or request an appointment up to three additional representatives in the consultation group if it is necessary to look for additional reasons, such as Only applicable to specific sites. At that time, the change in coastal areas was discussed. Although organized, adjustments are always to be expected. Therefore, the Commission suggests that at all times a regional conference will be established that can reevaluate coastal areas if needed. Some adjustments are made in how to take the initiative so that the initiative can be taken from rural, organizational, or ministerial servants. There were some references into the boundaries of port areas or the influence of organization in coastal zones. The committee's opinion carefully explains how to work in coastal and coastal areas together, which I intend not to cover, but it shows that there is an appointment in a Senate document. The committee discussed the importance of the early start of the work in the first coastal budget and stressed that funding is being carried out on coastal areas by temporary regulations for the East and the West will be assured, as stated in a financial programme. Of course, it needs to be followed after the financial resources of the Organization Fund will be in accordance with the bill and financial planning. Then, at a pace that is reasonable in planning, the committee applies the importance of working for those territories as soon as possible. The committee reported that it was not sufficiently clear in the case of the leavers allowed to postpone a permit application until a coastal system had taken place in the relevant area. So it was pointed out that the conditions of the Law were not clear enough. The committee suggests a change of 18th paragraph. to eliminate any doubt that the permit holder is only allowed to postpone the application for a license in the coastal region under the rules for marine and coastal areas when applying following the advertisement of a coastal structure. The proposal has to be processed and advertised so that a permit group member is permitted to postpone the application process. Thus, laws do not affect issues that are already in the process. Then I'm finally going to state that the committee is being revised. [[The president calls.]] The committee received quite a few comments and suggests a considerable change. [[The president calls.]] Then the committee proposes a provisional principle that, as the legislation is new, it will be tested. [[The president calls.]] -President. In the beginning, I asked for extra time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u11	Yeah. That's what the president did. There were three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u12	A preliminary review of a coastal area system at the end of the West and the Eastern world is under way, but no later than three years later. The Commission suggests that the bill will be adopted with the changes outlined and proposed in a special Senate document. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen Bergþór Ólason, Chairman of Línika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friðikksson, Elíasdóttir Furfjörður Elisdótir, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Einar Einar Einar Einar Einar Hjaltason, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjoffótsdótir, and Vilmimurm Árnason. Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u13	Madam President. I can't help but discuss this matter. Probably one of the few members of the council who have come close to being involved in the design of a coastal area. I participated in the development of a so - called coastal strategy for Arnarfjörg 2012-2024, but experience with this project proved the importance of working on coastal areas. It is therefore especially a joy for me to be allowed to participate in the discussion on this subject. As mentioned in the case of what? An executive, the Linequins of Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, is here offering a comprehensive plan for an organization in marine and coastal areas, something that the rural communities, especially in Western Europe and Eastern Europe, have been calling for a long time. In 1st. on the matter, I introduced several factors that I thought might be more comfortable with, such as the order of a local council representative and that there was something special that a representative of the environmental organization should listen to a local council while representatives of others, such as all local community members and other stakeholders, should not. I believe that with the many adjustments proposed to you from the beginning. The Environment and Transport Committee is able to bring the situation to a better outlook and balance than was done on the bill. Especially is the better change for the regional council system where there is a greater equilibrium between local members and the state. Although I know that many people feel that the suggestion of a so - called group of consultations is too extreme, I believe it is a legitimate compromise for the establishment of stakeholders. I'm glad you're here. It is very important in my opinion that they will begin as soon as possible with the construction of coastal areas for the West and the East, with many important solutions available to them. It is also important that there be some experience in the law before it is reviewed, as suggested in the opinion of the Commission and in the opinion of the changes to review in the light of experience, something I also think will be very useful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u14	Madam President. Here's a very important bill on marine and coastal planning. It is as is known to be based on a so - called national structure, at least Partially. The earth's set - up values are developing on non - net organization, or 115 m from land, as is being carried out in a different format. I want to make two choices that are important in these laws. First, the marine waters outside the grid are, in fact, defined as an ocean culture, a concept that few have heard. It's an area that's not the government of a community. It's the government in the name of the whole community. This is the case, in theory, due to the special status of the resources of the sea outside the grid, within which an organization is in the hands of rural society, as everyone knows. Second, and that is exactly the size of a ◯enHow, you see the law for a strong arrival in rural society on a beach. This results in an increase in the number of areas in which eight people live. It is ordered that there be an equal number of local government officials, we can tell; three from adjacent rural communities and one from the Union of Icelandic rural society and so many representatives of the State. This is a figure of eight, and more than 60% will be required to agree on each case. Madam President. There might be more to benefit from the legal process than the main material at the highest level. The Environment and Transport Committee is based on the criticism and comments of many clients to the Committee. It has not been so far as to hide all planning within the country's fars and from the south coast as shown earlier in my case. In the law, and it's important, there's a review law. That is the best and will no doubt be effective when it comes. I would like, as 2nd vice president of the Environment and Transport Committee, to thank all representatives of government opposition and to conduct a full participation in the establishment of one mutual opinion and implementing these organizational laws by implementing planning on the West and the East. Then we will see how this wind goes forward and look with an open mind to change the law, indeed the need to do so. This is an important bill, and it is very important that it has been taken care of from here on since the great General Assembly of this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u15	Madam President. I present a panel of members from a professional network on bill for the travel agency. The bill suggests that the entire travel agency, where there is also a travel council law, will have its license for tourism, and so on. Along with the bill, the Committee has been appointed to treat a bill to fix the package tours and the interconnected travel arrangements. If the originals are legal, travel regulations will fail. The main changes in the bill will depend on the management of the group and on the obligation of tourism to plan a safety programme for each type of trip being carried out. The purpose of the safety programme according to Article 10. is improving the safety of tourists. Travellers should evaluate the risks involved, update assessments as needed, and plan for future travel. The safety programme should include four different aspects, i.e. Risk assessment, protocols, case description and management plan. The committee considers this directive very important, especially for the safety of tourists, and it is important that effective monitoring of the procedure is carried out. In the case of the seminary administration, it's 2 st. The aim of the law, which is to promote the development of tourism as a vital and sustainable basis in Icelandic society, should be taken into account in terms of the tolerance of the Icelandic environment and society. Government policies also require harmonisation, analyses, and investigation. Foreign assignments are given to a travel agency and by Article 3. Her mission includes hers. in granting permission and monitoring, obtaining and providing information, taking care of safety and consumer protection, and oversight of insurance and insurance. Also proposed are the changes to the travel council directives, which will not be valid until January 1, 2020, when the transport network's tasks are mostly completed. According to the bill, the management board is taking on greater resources to travel, and it will be appointed representatives of finance and economic ministers, the Environment and Resource Ministers, transport and rural administration ministers as well as representatives of the local organisations and the travel organisations as well as the travel executives will be in the council. By 19. is authorized by a travel agency to place day - to - day blame on those who fall under the law if the laws or decisions of the Agency are not being carried out. By means of this warrant the Agency will be able to apply the laws without having to attack the process of turning to the police which may be time - consuming and the person who works unconcerned during that period. The Commission suggests several changes to the bill: The Commission suggests a change of Article 4. In view of the fact that the European Union of Iceland is nominated by two transport agencies instead of one, one of them shall represent the market room of the country. At the same time, a travel director is suggested to continue meeting the council with proposal and freedom of speech but not with the board as laid down in the bill. A closer examination of the bill and the bill for package travel and the interconnected travel forms suggest the following changes to the definitions in Article 6. The bill. First, it is suggested that the term traveller's means be defined in a way that involves a group member who puts together, offers, or sells in a professional way planning trips that do not fall under the laws of packed trips and intertwined travel. Second, it is suggested that the term be further used by a travel agency, which is far superior to what is in the current law. At the same time, definitions of the terms selling, planning, and retailing of the 6th par. which are defined in a package travel bill and a synthetic travel form. The same is true of the definitions of package travel and linked travel forms, i.e. that they should go away, because the terms are defined in a bill of package travel and interconnected travel arrangement. The above changes are suggested as simple and to take better care of the above - mentioned package travel bill and the synthetic travel model. Change of area 7 is being made. and 7 mg. Section 8. consistent with the change in area 6. At the same time, the Commission suggests that operating centres will be expected to become neutral information sources to the public. It's suggested at 6. will be improved by the new figures where their activities will be defined and that they will be added to a new article on their registration and activities, including that information centres that have public financial support keep these aspects of the work financially separate from other aspects of it. 2 mg is also suggested. Section 8. withdraw to explain further details of the safety programme required only for travel. It's 3rd. 14th par. leaving where a licence is ordered to be submitted to a travel agency on a permit substitution, where no physical permission will be issued. There is a provision for changing regulations for temporary I in that those who have the permission of the current law apply for a new license at a travel agency for a particular date. Changes in wording are also suggested in several places for correction and explanations. 20th degree. The bill is suggested to gain the value of the law on July 1, 2018. The Commission considers too short a period of time from the approved law to be validated under the bill and suggests that the law will be accepted on January 1, 2019. In accordance with this, a date-to-date change in provisional I and the proposed protocols for temporary II will be removed. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the above adjustments made in a special Senate document. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was meeting the committee as an officer of the hearing and is acceptable to this opinion. It's all the professional committees that sign this opinion: Director of Director Rafney Esterney Magnúsdóttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Sæland Haranand, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir Elíasdóttir Fjordurfjörður Elisdótir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbeinn Proppé, Sigurður Páll Jónsson and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u16	Madam President. As mentioned in the case of what? This is a significant change in the activities of the traveling agency and the overall administration of the seminary. Thus, the role of a tourism agency in the market is clearly taken out but more emphasis is being made on the main objective of the Agency to monitor and contribute to the development of tourism as a vital and sustainable foundation in the Icelandic community, to my testimony in the work-up of the bill. In fact, a travel agency is being transformed into a sort of surveillance agency. New projects are linked to picture projects, as well as to the opinions of the committee, security programmes and the management of the work of the new traveling council. The role of a travel council is also significantly altered, but the role of being a minister to advise on the planning and long-term policy development of tourism, as well as providing a perspective on the plans and policies for travel, future development, and the interaction of this article and the government. Hence, it is only natural that representatives of the key councils associated with travel services, as well as representatives from the tourist organisation and the Union of Icelandic rural society. Like what? In the opinion of the committee, a manager felt that the job committee was not entitled to sit in the council, but to sit only a meeting of the council, as it has been, with the right to offer and freedom of speech. Instead, another representative of the European Union member of the Icelandic rural community shall represent the market room in the country, but it would be reasonable to assume that their representative should be involved in the Council, with a total of 850 companies behind the markets and 66 rural organizations. In contrast, 482 companies are members of the tourism Association based on information on their website. Overall, I think with these changes, we're moving the bill for the better. I want to take advantage of this opportunity to thank you. Committees on the job board for good cooperation and especially grew old. Director of the Trausti Friðbertsson. As I've introduced before in this sermon, the fact that Iceland's tourism is probably the most important industry today and therefore especially important that we put forth the effort to create administration and support for it so that it can grow and thrive. The bill presented here is a step forward, but hopefully we will have many upbuilding conversations about travel in the fall and the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u17	Madam President. I present to you the employment committee's opinion on bill to legalize the package trips and the co-ordinated travel arrangements. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Brynhildur Marteinn, Homephédinsson and Sigrún Brynja Einarsdóttir frá the atvinnuvega of - nýsköpunarráðuneyti, the Guðný of New Hjaltadótir, and Áki Álka Ellertsson from the Society of the Professionals, Matthildur, Sóljörnsson of the Sveinsdóttir's Tryggvi, Skarphéðinn Bergur Steinarsson from the Travel Office, Skúli H. Skúlason from the Tourist Company and ÁsbergJónsson and Gólán Gunnar of Valur Sveinsson Kingdom. The committee received reviews from the National Social Association of Iceland, the Society of Professionals, and WOW air, a travel agency, Iceland's Travel Association, Navigator Services, and the Travel Service Association. The bill suggests that the overall legislation on the use of packages and cohesive travel forms will be passed instead of on the current list of travel laws. The bill is based on the European Parliament's Directive and the Council of the EU 2015/2302 for the package travel and co-ordinated travel arrangements and the change in specific types of the European Union referred to in Article 34. The bill. In the new directive, the intelligence of the sellers is increased and the rights of tourists are expressed in a more precise way. The definition of a package tour is extended, so it depends on more trips than on existing laws, and in the same way, the cost of seals increases. In particular, the aim of the directive is to bring the principle to the present time, for business practices and methods in this area have become more diverse. Definitions according to the bill take into account this, and under the term package tour, we now have a variety of trips combined and a so - called cohesive travel model. There are also regulations on the information of the seller, changes and productions of travel and rights of a tourist and the duties of a seller and the organisation during the journey. Then there is the bill on protection from incursiveness, and it is proposed in the bill that the provision of insurance due to the sale of packages will remain unchanged from the current law. This point was discussed with a discussion of the case on the committee, and it came to the view that it was reasonable to adjust the arrangement, e.g. in order to set up a guarantee fund to reimburse consumers in the event that a service employee becomes unrecountable or ends business. The committee was referred to as an example of the need for travel workers to obtain the responsibility of a bank for financial insurance. In view of consumer protection, the committee feels that a minister does well to consider this point. After going through and discussing the many comments received at the bill, the Committee adds some changes to the bill: First of all, two changes are proposed to Figure 1. the bill in the case of the expression, "to be in a natural relationship with the places of the words, " an impenetrable part ◯, which, in the opinion of the Committee, covers the appropriate concept of the directive. However, it may be noted that there will always be an interpretation every time whether certain services to tourists are normally associated with the transport of passengers, rooming, or renting of vehicles, so it is not always possible to list the types of service that may be involved. Second, the Committee suggests that automobiles and motorcycles, requiring driving privileges in Class A, Unit 1. Instead of referring to registered vehicles, which is a broader term. Third, the revised wording appears in paragraph 2 and 5. where referred, a type of travel service to the point where the committee feels more convenient for the word, "type ~ will fall away to keep an overlap with the term, "" travel-related service‡ to Article 4. The bill. Fourth, a 4 mg change is proposed. 18th par. so that the cost of a tourist's return may be explained by the manager or a small exchange is limited to the costs of the latter. Fifth, the committee suggests that reimbursement should be referred to a discount in Article 20. sixth, it is suggested that the word "little sellr " be added to the 3rd mgr. Twenty-six. since it has fallen by mistake. Finally, the commission suggests that the law will be accepted on January 1, 2018, if the bill is a law, so that those under law will have no lead-in period. The committee points out to the minister that prior to that period there has been a review of the terms of an arrangement of insurance mentioned earlier in view. The committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes I discussed above. Under committeed literature, as well as the above, Director Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Inga Sæland, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbin Otmarsson Proppé, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and Smári Mccarthy, who signed on this in advance of VII guarantees. section of the bill. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir was meeting the committee as an officer of the hearing and is acceptable to this opinion. On behalf of the Committee, I suggest that the bill be agreed with the changes outlined in a special Senate document.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u18	A respectable president. Thank you so much for letting me come here, it's a great privilege to get in. In itself, I'm not going to extend this discussion. Yeah, I'm gonna actually extend it to her, otherwise I wouldn't have come here, but I'm not going to extend it much. I just wanted to come on - because they're closely related to these two subjects, this and the above - that there are many things I think I've learned very well in this process, all of which we have made a point of making travel. A professional health committee. As far as this bill is concerned, like cot. A prominent speaker, Elíasdóttir, the daughter of Elijah, may have an enormous value in rendering words. Not only did I say that a member of the translators'Alliance and interprets but many reporters were concerned that using one translation above others could have an inhibitory effect on their activities. It's important that we take care of this. Otherwise, I came up here mostly to close my compliments. A work board that started earlier today in discussions about the construction of electricity transport systems. I want to thank you for the good cooperation that has been in the committee on this subject, and then give special commendation. A pilot. I don't think I'll lean on anyone just because I take it. In particular, although I may now have expected her to thank me especially for this, I could help her to draw the storyteller ahead of me in her last words. But I have found this to be a lot of fun. Today, there is much talk about convergence at a council meeting. It's a fairly popular subject that in this room, people are inconsistencies, and there are some people arguing about something, and others try to do something else, etc. But I've felt working together for a while. A professional health committee is absolutely exemplary, how we have been able to sit down and view matters materially and reach common conclusions. Of course, this does not apply to all matters. In some cases, there are simply differences of opinion, different from politics. But we have been able to discuss matters almost without exception with much thought. I wanted to come up here to thank you especially for this cooperation. Now I don't know how often it's the highest. The President's gonna let me back in the chair. So I'll take this opportunity to thank you for this wonderful cooperation and say, like... [[Up front.]] Not when we're dealing with the prosthesis of a professional committee, I'm not sure there's more from there, but I can play it by the ear. But I'm just saying, as the hiker said in my grandmother's kitchen, when he had emptied the cake that had been rough: I thank you for what has come, I hope to get more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u19	Madam President. I would like to recommend a committee party with a bill on bill to correct a change in growth and insurance law, No. 38/2001, with subsequent changes. The committee has discussed the matter and received reviews, including the following: from Iceland's Secret Bank, Iceland's Business Council, Iceland's Allied Union, Bankors Association and National Habiters Association. The Committee has already discussed and will implement a synopsis proposal for evaluation on the basis of the calculation of insurance policy, 135th case. The case was covered in a detailed discussion of the committee and a committee view with a new proposal was adopted at a meeting of the Committee on May 2 of the past. On May 8 of last May, the Synod agreed to accept the unanimous council resolution with the changes proposed by the Committee on Congress, as agreed on by Congress No. 17/148 at Council Report 951. With the approved Conventional Residence Directive, financial and economic ministers are assigned to a group of experts who appreciate the benefits and shortcomings of aiming into the insurance insurance of the index price without housing or that a borrower has the choice of the indicators to lay the basis for the security of such commitments. The staff are made particularly aware of the way inflation is measured in the main business countries of Iceland and assess how the change would affect remuneration, credit rates, prices-separated loans and interest status, as well as the impact of the proposals for money reassessment, might affect indicators, prices and interest policies of the Federal Bank, which were presented during the week. The secretary shall report to the General Assembly with key results for the end of 2018. In view of the agreement made by the General of the past Parliament, the greater part seems to be in the eye of the task force on which the body will be appointed, on the basis of which it covers the subject of the bill under consideration. Therefore, suggest that the bill be referred to the government for further implementation. Under the name of the above name, Óli Kárason, the son of Meriamur, Birgir the Ármannsson of Níelsson, and Ólafur the son of Þór Gunnarsson, and Gylfadóttir K..
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u20	V.E.G. President. I recommend the opinion of the Economic and Business Committee on bill to correct the change in growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001, with subsequent changes. The commission says, with permission of the president: In 1979, U.S.A., the Homological Insurance Bar was recorded in Iceland. At that time, economic conditions were difficult, professional life, and currency rates were monotonous, and inflation was high. Insurance was expected to last a short time. Then it stretched out, and it seems that no one had the courage to cut this knot or this serpent, for the insurance policy is like a serpent who has been surrounded here all this time. But the hope of all of this is that earlier today, we handle matters in the hall that are important, united, in the opposite direction. This case is very big. This is one of the bigger issues we deal with in this council, and I'm really sorry we're going to do it in a time-out at the council, but we're actually only in 2. ... but it's still a step further that the matter could be resolved by a committee, even though it would have to subtract into this hall so that we could take a serious talk. My colleague who spoke before me, my boy. paritaprevir Actually, Óli Kárason Kállson did not offer much discussion but simply read up the figure of the greater part and ran away. It's a little bit like the 1st. Of this case, where the people were coughing up their answers, forwarders and independents, but the Conspiracy wasn't involved, the WG wasn't in, the Piranians were not involved. For the 100,000 homes in this country, it is out of interest that the classes I mentioned here are the last ones to be judged out of the picture in this case. It's very informative. Of course, they'll come to explain it at some point, probably to someone, why it is. It seems that the head of the advance party jumped toward its height the other day and found extraordinary courage to celebrate the publication of a money policy report. It suggests that the mortgage needs to be removed from the index base. The head of the advance party said that this was a class policy forever. But words and wealth do not always fit in with the fine category, as we know, e.g. from the local language of the Land Hospital on Ring Road, where the party has been spinning a full circle since October last October, its achievement. Did I rely on that support? No, not quite, wouldn't deposit him in a bank. Of course, I expect the laymen to feel the courage to support this matter, as they have promised to do and to hold their word once. Of course, the suggestion is the same. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason quoted earlier and has gone to the government's bosom was the natural lowest common name the forwarding party could pass through in this government community. I understand that and I'm not rubbing men out of it. It's simply the position people got into, they stepped into the government for three ministers with no case. Of course, that is understandable. But I expect that now when people are given the opportunity to show what is inside them, they will seize and use it. Madam President. I say again, this case is so important to so many extremely many people. It is stated in the panel of my section that only March 2017 to March 2018 did it lenders in Iceland at $50 billion that the way suggested in the bill was not taken. In the last five years, this amount is 118 billion. It was shown the other day in response to the highest. Secretary of finance asking why. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant. Downstateers will say, "Yes, but this is not the time. " The economy is getting cold, and housing prices are getting low, and this is not the time. I can tell you, good necks: It will never be the right time for these people to take out or change insurance. Never. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason quoted earlier in news. They were as expected from the Iceland Business Council and the Bankors Association, which are Iceland's major watchdog insurance. Of course, they did not recommend that the bill be approved. The late bank, with belts and bracelets. Of course, he did not suggest that the bill be approved. On the other hand, the National Association of Iceland did. ASI suggested that this be done and encouraged. The domestic economists wanted to walk all the way and cancel insurance. That's what we're going to do. If we're going to be competitive with the neighbors, we must. Men from another house here often say: You can't do it unless you pick up Euro. There are many people who cannot do anything except pick up the euro and walk in the European Union, that is, the cure for everything, no matter what. Then I quote that in Norway men don't have euro, they have a Norwegian crown, which is a short while gone free and fell at the most of 20%. It did not change the interest rates of the public on the mortgages that are less than two percent uncertain. If they're going to search the country next door, to Denmark, there's inflation. However, this does not change the fact that housing loans there may be made by a total of 23/4.2.5% in interest of security. Thus, in recent years, the average life span of those who buy an apartment is increasing for the first time. Understandably. There is longer study and education, and there is more to it than that. I remember I saw last year that the average age of people at the first purchase of a house market was 32 years. What do we invite them? We're offering the loans that have a tremendous amount of payment and payment. We tell the people: Now you're 30 years old, or you're well educated, we're going to offer you a loan of 40 years with insurance. You pay very little a month. In credit time, you'll pay off the loan four times. The monthly amount of money will probably triple during this time, and you will not see a blow on water with the loan until the last five years, five years before retirement. We can't have one generation in Iceland once more. We cannot invite people to buy their real estate for the first time, pay it four times in 40 years, and then retire. It's something people simply don't accept. Now, Madam President, a number of people have come to believe that the subject of this bill is an essential step, respected economists. That's the way one person sits in the hall with us, boy. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson. I could mention Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson, a promising young economist, who has said both in speech and in writing, including. at a good meeting in the University of Georgia, leading the last election, we have to change this. The chance is now, huh? Councilmen, because we've once shown that we can come across the hall, and if there's ever been a reason to do it, to come together, the whole body of Congress, in a matter of utmost importance to a hundred thousand homes in this country, it's a good thing now. All you need is a will. As the poet of old said: "Videji is all it takes. " What we need to do is find the courage and courage to come up here and participate in the discussion. And I'd be able to get the members of the United States, the left green and the Pirata and the natural Independence Party, and I don't talk about the reverends, up here to tell us why it can't be done, to tell us why it can't be changed the inflation line that's eating the nation's home from within, which is destroying people all over the country. Why can't we get along? Councilmen, will this case be settled once and for all, taking this step, for the good of the people of the land? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u21	Madam President. I want to start my case because of you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson I'm a Shimundson of this bill, and his associates for their efforts in this matter. In this matter, Madam President, the facts are made clear. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson referred to a recent reply made by the secretary of finance to an inquiry from the one here on how the indexing staff's living would be affected by the price-settling mortgage loans over the past five years. These numbers, Madam President, are striking, they're crying. They will not be overlooked. They're like this: Prices due to a general increase in prices, except for those five years, 15 billion that go into the homes. Due to the housing team, 118 billion can be dropped. On top of the homes. This is more than a two - nation hospital, in view of the figures recently funded by a health minister on the cost of its construction. This is for homes to take on. Why, Madam President? Because this housing is rising. Why this housing thing? He's raising for a number of reasons. I'm gonna give you two. One is that in the largest rural society, there is a policy that increases the weight of assessment of shelter prices, which is a eccentric policy, as known by men, and not to those responsible and responsible, and shows itself in a land shortage year after year. How do people feel that housing prices are lacking? That's obvious. The other reason I'd like to mention is that because of the massive influx of tourists, the number of apartments that have been rented or that have been living normal people has been used as short - term rents for tourists. How do people feel about this building? Of course it's raising him. In view of the fact that this greater portion of the property supply is going to remain in the power of the city of Reykjavík, do people think that there will be some change in that direction? How will this affect the homes of the country? This will, of course, continue to increase the residence prices, the continuation of this loss of weight, with the consequences known and currently predictable. That's why I called for, in the kitchen calendars before the people, that the government would see to it that the mortgage team was removed immediately from the index. It would be a means of emergency to protect your homes, to protect your homes from this dissatisfaction, for this is nothing but unscrupulous. In view of these figures, the mortgage is like any other creature who eats home inside and above the people's prices. Families are evicted, and children are led out of their homes by rot and insecurity. Which country in our part of the world is offering people this way? Answer: Not one country. Nothing. We have 30,000 people in foreign lands. What should we say to them? Welcome home to the beautiful land, and you will be taken into the well-deserved insurance. People in neighboring countries who borrow for 30 years or what they are now, and they know from day one to a dollar what to pay every day for all their loans. Do you think it's tempting for the people to come home on this farm? This insurance policy, Madam President, is an experiment. And we, Icelanders, are the guinea pigs. It's an experiment in social engineering. The actions show the signs. The experience in this system sucks. We're supposed to stop this index furski, and we're supposed to offer people here at equal costs in the funding of an apartment building, which happens and walks three hours away from our country, to form in the capitals of the Northern countries. I strongly recommend that this bill be approved here on the value it has. [[The president calls.]] This helps to protect the homes and families. [[The president calls.]] I am declaring the support of the members of Stockholm's council to this bill. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u22	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the speakers who have spoken for their talks. I was disappointed in others by the use of a talk. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. One expected that this would be better handled, especially in view of the report just mentioned; it was observed after the candidates made a demeaning proposal to order a committee to handle the case. Now, however, a report entitled The Future of Icelandic Money Policy has been submitted. If you read between the lines, you might say that this is just one of the things that are present for cleaning today, i.e. that the housing team is so strong inside the index. Now's the chance to finish this thing. Now is the time to take a stand for cleaning the staff out of the index. We have senators here, of course. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Ísafasunsson, pointed out the tremendous numbers and interests involved. We heard you, both by yah. paritaprevir Oleaf, Ólafur of Ísleifsson and why. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, is that these are the members who maintain the index, which benefit from having the index in this way. It's so surprising that at the same time as we discuss this, there's one group at the General Assembly, exhilarating, struggling to extend the lives of the more part of the city that has most impacted the development of the index number in the past few years, i.e. The host's staff, with a lack of weights, and with a yoke on the available grounds. No, the city's representatives are going to make more of it with these people and lead them to power for the next four years and maintain it. It's a sad, respectable president. The important thing now is to make a decision, to resolve the matter. It does not take courage to accept this matter. It takes reason to do so. It takes reason, and it needs to be. You have wondered whether the words of the Prosecutors of this council are empty when it is spoken of in detail about the insurance, of the ills that come with it, but then all will be put to sleep on a committee. We know that it is absolutely meaningless to place the matter on the committee referred to here, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason wants to refer to and to more of the committee, for there will be my knowledge; nothing will happen. We've been over this. This case has been handled in the committee. Now it's time for confirmation that we have to do this. This report provides a fine example of the need for us to take this approach, so that the evidence presented here is not discussed. paritaprevir The Ólafur of the Ísleifsson of Izzus to mention something. We need to finish this case, Mr. Honorable President. There's good evidence in my committee party that it's important to do this now. Among other things, the commission says by permission of the president: It was found that in Iceland, the cost of inflation between March 2017 and March 2018 would have been estimated to be 2.3%, but the unsupervised measurement was at the same time 0.9% negative. During this period, there may be an increase in the cost of borrowing due to an indexing factor of about 50 billion dollars (U.S.) We're talking about 50 billion bucks. Just during this period. Here we are talking about not taking action at the end of this council and saving the homes so much as hundreds of millions or billions of people until we meet together in the fall. I wonder and throw it out here, considering it seems like it's my turn. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson is about to come in for a talk, whether the committee to discuss this matter will be finished in the fall when we get back together so that we can finish the matter by Christmas. Remember, in the fall of this fall, we can bring the good news to those who have a home in Iceland and say: "We will handle this case in the fall, because there was no agreement, and they did not want to do it last spring, i.e. Now? There must be some answers to this question. It cannot be considered normal to refer to a committee of such importance unless there is a final point in it that we can discern when the committee should complete its work if it is the will of more than that. Is it so that the greater part does not trust to make a decision here, despite all the evidence that has been listed, despite the good report that points to this, although thousands of homes are waiting for a greater proportion of them at the Council to take their place and agree to take the mortgage team out of the index?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u23	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001, with subsequent changes, the index value of consumer prices. The matter is about changing pars. legal on growth and price insurance to guarantee savings and loan money so that the basis of insurance will be the index price of consumer consumption without the indexes we make today, the index price of consumption. If we continue with this matter, we will aim for the index as calculated by the Haggis, without housing teams. Now it's the 2nd issue. As noted in the opinion of the greater part of the Committee, the committee handled this case last year and agreed on by the General Assembly on May 8 of that year. Council resolution by the change proposed by the committee, is presented in part by committee list. The Economic and Business Committee. It appoints a financial and economic minister to appoint a team of specialists to assess the benefits and defects of aiming into terms of insurance insurance for the index price without the provision of housing teams to determine the basis for the index. This is important. The General agreed to review the matter professionally because such a decision involves many aspects of our economy and affects other variables, as agreed in the agreed proposal, e.g. Compared with the business countries, remuneration rates, credit rates, prices of loans and interest, and especially the results and suggestions of the Management Board on reevaluation of money policy and decisions are subject to the UN interest policy. This is two different choices, the decision on the control of interest rates, and the decision we make on the bill that this is about the priced loan agreements we're going to make. Everything I mentioned concerns the interests of households and businesses, not just the one-sided decision offered on the bill to make without any professional judgement, such as on money policy and the effects on interest rates. It is quite difficult to talk about financial and economic stability and to try to win another part of a business and then make this practice without a professional assessment of its effect. [[Up front.]] In my mind, the case will be unnecessary after the approval of the Generals, like a nice wind. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson put it out of a speech chair. But it's in here, and it's in itself welcome to the professional work that the General has already hidden financial and economic ministers and actually pop into the future of Icelandic money policy. This is precisely indicated by the proposal, in accordance with the synopsis accepted by the General Assembly, to evaluate first and then to act. The task force takes the fundamental stand for not attempting to use the control of real estate prices and to assess some ways to do so, such as the index of consumers without housing or the uniform index of consumer prices, similar to the proposal adopted by the General Assembly. In view of the work group, these routes should be carefully considered. I repeat, a respectable president, take a close look. It's totally in harmony with the synonym that was approved. The matter must be set up in a professional process. The objective of the bill we're discussing and the Parliament's resolution is the same unless there is no professional assessment of what is to be done here. So I must support more of the committee's opinion. The Economic and Business Committee. Then this bill will go into the work announced by the Parliament's resolution proposal and the General Assembly approves, and it is welcome to the professional process.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u24	Mr. President. I'm celebrating this bill and I'm one of its carriers. I thank you for the fine talks that have been given here. We see that this case is very important to the public in the country. I must also say that speaking at times disappointed me. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, who stressed that the matter would be set up in a professional process, etc. What have we heard in the past that this is so difficult to carry out, and it needs to be examined? No decision can be made. Part of this problem, that we are still stuck with insurance insurance over our heads, is that of my decision-staining politicians who are not ready to deal with the problem with boldness. It must be done. It's a man's job. It's a man's job. We know, it has been observed here in 1979, that it was placed with so - called Ólafs law and had actually been at a people from 1955, with only one fourth of each loans guaranteed. Then, the evidence, as we have heard here, was extreme inflation, loan failure, savings, and global inflation. In other words, the insurance policy was set to cope with extreme economic problems. Bank accounts and loans were destroyed, and banks were understandably reluctant to lend. This added to the global situation, such as high oil prices. Today, we live in very different circumstances, both worldwide and at home. Nevertheless, the insurance policy is against the people. In historical and economic comparisons, there is no need for insurance in Iceland today. That's why I'm celebrating the bill. This is the first step in making home conditions in Iceland decent in comparison with other countries. Like what? paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleususussson used to trace so well today, a number of Icelanders are abroad, and he probably has a limited interest in coming home, including the U.S. because the mortgage here is in a very different and negative way than that of the neighboring nations. Before the election, we regularly hear political parties promising to reduce or eliminate insurance. We know the others, they're none. Therefore, I say, it is time to act. We could take the route that had gone 1955, cut down the insurance policy, its value, in such a way that three fourths of loans would be insured. Then you could move it down to half and then one fourth of each loan. Thus, a situation that would be of great importance to the public could be created; however, economic matters could be handled with caution as well. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson correctly mentioned that we need to be careful and put it in history, etc. Why can't you go this way? The matter must always be joined by a committee, and it is overwhelmed, as is the case here in this council hall. This matter is now being brought in, this important matter of interest to the public, in the final years of the council, as it were. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's name earlier. It shows that the government groups are not interested in this. But before the election, of course, they are interested in doing everything they can to make things right and promise all beautiful, but then nothing happens. Mr. President. It is clear to me that part of this matter is simply political determination sensitivity. I challenge the government to let the bill through. This is an enormous interest issue for the public in Iceland. It is long time for the injustice of Iceland's insurance policy to be removed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u25	A respectable president. I had not intended to address this discussion simply because I had heard a very good and detailed speech speech speech discourse and more members of the council, members of the Central Party, and especially so. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson the son of Izz, who made this matter very well. Then I heard a talk. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, and I must be honest, respectable President: I was shocked. Hv. A senator is a member of the Framework Party, a party founded to be a radical financial group and group that was a radical reformal group not long ago and put it first, had it as one of its main priorities, to eliminate an arrangement of insurance in the Icelandic financial market; cases that the group fought for years ago, had the opportunity to fulfill the promises he had made on this matter, and must say, a respectable president, failed to complete it because the term was not met and because of the team's cooperation at that time, not least at the highest level. The current financial minister, who was then a financial minister, was not interested in this. When I heard why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson would come up here and claim to the United States that people should slow down and not be hoping that this case would be run through because it was already under way at the highest level. Secretary of finance, I was shocked, to the point. A senator thought that it really was or kept it at least to the highest. A secretary of finance would likely be responsible for finishing this case after he got into a professional career. Hv. A senator who considered himself a radical reform party to come here, trying to establish for the council that the matter should take place and that we should not be so impatient, that it should be examined from all sides, a case for which the Agency has already fought, and in a much more radical version than we are doing here, for years. Now is the chance to get this big step in this big case. Then comes a senator of the parish and tells members of the Parliament to slow down, the matter has gone into operation at the highest level. The Independence Party secretary for financial matters. A respectable president. I suppose the highest. The president understands that I am deeply distressed by the hearing of such a statement made by a candidate of the Agency when this adds up to the fact that this class has spoken for many major improvements in recent years, all of whom have now been dropped in this administrative capacity. The media called for press conferences with an organization on a better hospital in a better place. A free organization agreed to have a press conference before elections with the candidate because the candidates intended to make it a key part of their campaign to build a new U.S. survey. The media gave this issue in advance of the formation of government. Current level. A travel minister gave endless talks on the importance of getting away with what was going to happen to Arion's banks. The highest. Only a 180 degree turn was taken in this case, a complete surrender in the affairs of Arion banks. So now we see the same thing happening with this big case, this large, incomplete case of the Future Party, that the senator of that party is coming here on the platform and he says that we have nothing to do with finishing this right now, the case is in committee, the case is in progress, The secretary of finance is going to look into it. A respectable president. This isn't a credible statement. I have to say, as it is, I regret that this presentation comes from a group that was once a radical political reformist who now wants to put things into a committee. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u26	A respectable president. I don't really know exactly what the hell I'm doing here, but maybe I'll come to that right now. þm. Gunnar Bragi Sólnsson, if I can use this piece of music to express myself without forwardness. A senator has lost quite a bit, yet to this respectable, newly arrived age, and I congratulate you again on my birthday. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I have to admit that I don't really understand what's going on except, I like to say, that there are some in the presence of your former party members, a lot of hurt in the past, and it's good and good, it's good to talk about it when you feel hurt. I'm honored to be able to access this Middle Party's long rosary, I think it's just all his members who have made it once, if not twice, on the rosary. It's good to get to and talk about these things. Because of a number of above-mentioned comments on what happened. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, I'm not quite sure that people who are not really in the middle of a situation will come to realize what this is all about. Therefore, with the permission of the President, I would like to reread a synonym. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson was that I had decided to, and was approved on May 8 of the past. Now I'm a historian, and I remember time again, but I also remember what happened one month ago. I read, with president's permission: ▪ Dating on the basis of calculating insurance. The General concluded to hide a financial and economic minister from appointing a team of experts who assess the benefits and weaknesses of billing insurance insurance insurance for the index price without housing or that a borrower has the choice of which index points to lay the basis for the security of such commitments. In particular, during the analysis work it will be seen how in Iceland's major business countries, in terms of the impact of the change in salary, credit rates, insurmountable loans and interest status, as well as the impact of the proposals for money reassessment, perhaps on indicators, prices and interest policies of the Federal Bank. Ministers report to the General Assembly with key results for the end of 2018 Does this sound like a familiar, respectable president? Yeah, at least to my ears. There are quite a few things here that you can find in the Congress arrangement and the language you're discussing. Come here and let's act like a dog. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson has some predestination, after-dose, and I don't know what and what has been dropped here because he wants to live with what was approved a month ago, it seems very peculiar to me. I can see why. paritaprevir and the Shimmmersson, a carrier, agreed on a motion. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór, Sæmundsson of Þórsson. What play are we in here, more dignified president? Then there are people here in some of the internalities that may be at home other than in this hall, with a phrase on their former companions. I say just as it is, many of the people who have spoken before made me wonder if this might be a good thing. But when the big male declarations of predestination and the lack of courage and courage and I don't know what and what began to rush my ear from each of the supporters of the proposal after another, I became convinced that the right way to see if the insurance would be at home in the mortgage team. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson made a good effort if not all those who have spoken this evening agreed one month ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u27	V.E.G. President. I wasn't going to extend this discussion very much, but I was moved to come here following the talk by the chairman of the Middle Party, why. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. He discussed the forwarding party in this talk, and it has to do with the speech we address here and the Senate resolution approved by the General Assembly. I just want the facts to come out, i.e. That this is the third time I think of it, of the senators of the forward Party, as it were. ... of 1st. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. He was an evangelizer in this case, for it was the members of the Anarchist Party who originally made the case, and in those days there was no trouble. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, chairman of the advance party. The fact is, this is a thing - right as it is. A senator explained - the policy of the advance party and was submitted. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gestein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, was then a merchant in the matter. The only difference is that we senators have been able to get this case through and through and accept it at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u28	Mr. President. There is reason to correct that for 40 years, since 1979, social experiment has been conducted in which the American citizens of society are the experimental animals. Icelandic citizens have paid the price of this experiment. Thousands and thousands of families, Icelandic families, parents with children, have been driven from their homes by this social experiment. This social experiment is an attempt to rule the country as if it were an engineering solution. So let's just make it look like it's mechanical and submit to the laws of the sphere and of the car wheel. But the economy is surprising, Mr. President, not mechanical. It is not engineering laws. The economy is such a week's web based on communication. In this respect, the economy is not mechanical but organic. The rationalization for this engineering experiment is this: The borrower is to be added to borrowing money in value. That is what is the nature of inflation. Inflation is the loss of money, and because money costs more money for goods, the price of goods goes up. This is what we call inflation. Vasculitis is not an index of consumer prices or any other index. The balance of consumer prices is an attempt, an attempt to measure the phenomenon that in itself is difficult to pass on. Now, the standard used here, i.e. The index price of consumers, which included this housing, is as imperfect and inferior as it is possible to be. He has nothing to do with money shrinking when the housing team has reached this point. The population has gone on increasing paces at the same time as the country's common prices have declined. The growth in the housing team is rooted in something other than the loss of money. These increases are rooted in the factors I could handle earlier and other related factors. It is the policy of a local community, especially a large community in which we are now, which includes a map of weights and other eccentrics. It's that visitors have come in here to pick up a large amount of housing that would otherwise have been a provision for the inhabitants. This has nothing to do with money shrinking. But this effect is reflected in the index as it is put together by the housing team inside. I'd like to say that there's no way we can save ourselves the work referred to here because these facts are on the table. It is a fact that will not be opposed, which the secretary of finance has been introduced in response to a request asked by the person mentioned here, that, at the same time, as the general price increase, has given reasons for raising the loans of 15 billion, the mortgage has another 118. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Do you need more witnesses, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u29	V.E.G. President. After this discussion, there are a number of things that we can do. I appreciate it. We know, for example. now that the Conspiracy gives away space in the discussion. We know that Piratars do the same. We know that VG's senator doesn't understand or down. I believe him well. [[Up top: right.]] We also know why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson has written talks twice, and I thank him very much for that. As usual, he handled his case well and was placed in a position once again on the side of the advance party to defend the wicked cause that he did very well. He said earlier that I had agreed to this proposal in 2016. That's right, but I did because I thought that's the end of it. Yes, I agreed to the motion made on May 8, but what was the situation then? Then there was the bill that now exists. In fact, on the last day of the council, there has been a committee for some time, since it was proposed in March, if I recall correctly, to be clear, Mr. President. If you don't think you can get everything out of you, maybe you'll do the next thing you can. The other is so different that I firmly promise, as I stand here, that in September 12,◯13, this bill will come back, because it is fully investigated, however. Senator. By the end of 2014, two counts from the Committee on Insurance as the then state of the world have come to an end. The prime minister, Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, had appointed less than two years earlier. She stressed the value of insurance. She did. And now in the days, we will receive this report on money policy, which gives us indications in exactly that direction. When is enough research being done? Probably never expected. June 5th. The great crowd's head rejoices over the fact that this case has been brought up, saying: "We graduates have always supported this matter and have brought it to a close. Then the candidates get the opportunity to support the situation, and what happens then? Nothing. But there is one thing that is set out now, and this is an addition to what I said earlier, because of what the Independence Party did during the discussion. He recited the committee's opinion and ran to the door. Very impressive. Mr. President. What happens tomorrow is that those who didn't want, dared, or could participate in the conversation tonight, and who didn't want, dared, or were able to take a clear stand and tell her about their hearts have the opportunity to do so tomorrow because tomorrow the bill is a vote. At that time, people will be called to inform the nation of their stand on whether or not they should continue to carry death - dealing insurance insurance. I know one group wants to wait for Euro, which takes 12 years. How much does this cost the home? Only the last five has cost it 108 billion, so we can somehow calculate it. The committee will come back in the fall, if she will, for a completely uninterested financial minister on this matter. What will he do with the report? Does he run to and transport a bill like this? I'd like to see it, as Laddi and Ladda used to say. I would be very interested in hearing that, and that would surprise me very much. Tomorrow, there is an opportunity for humans to express their thoughts, to express their thoughts in words. In the meantime, people can sleep on this matter and muster up courage if they want to come tomorrow to vote on this bill, on this matter of justice that matters for the 100 of you. a home in the country, expressing its special interest, or lack of interest in the 100 you have. Apprehension. Mr. President. I look forward to tomorrow and can hardly wait to find out who it is that will stand by themselves and who will turn off and turn around. Of course, I hope people will feel the courage and courage to stand by themselves and to stand up once in the homes of this country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-11-76.u30	Mr. President. It is my pleasure to measure for a bill to legalize the civil rights of citizens on behalf of the General and Education Committee. All-American and educational committees have received 147 citizenship applications at the 148th Court, but on 1 mg. Section 6. The Act on Icelandic Civil Rights is legally granted to the General Assembly of Citizens. The committee suggests that 69 applications and individuals will be granted citizenship this time. That's why the Board of Generals and Education is going to be here. Finally, I suggest that this matter go directly to the 2nd.
