ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u1	In a letter dated March 1, 2018, the president has requested this, according to the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following reports: Landsnet hf. The role, property and planning of the European Union; National Public Relations: National Ecosystems: National Ecosystems at the University of Iceland; Landing at 06/24 at Reykjavík International Airport: Management, implementation, effectiveness and decision-making; Drug Agency; topic of foreigners and importers in Iceland and finally the Releasing Committee and Releasing Aggressional Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u2	There have been two letters from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 246, on the safety of patients in the mental field of the Land Hospital, from Sævar Sævarsson, and on the icicle. 263, about the cost of health care for foreign tourists, from Birgir Thornarson's Þórarinsson. A letter has also been received from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 237, for import of raw and unbound foods from Bjarni Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u3	Consider: Prime Minister, health minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister, marine economist and agricultural minister, environmental and resource minister, foreign minister and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u4	A respectable president. As we all know, the budget for 2018 went through the council at a speed of light in December. There was in no way expected to improve the interests of the poor or those whose feet are nested in this community. Then I'm talking about improving their interests directly, not indirectly, not in the form of giving them a discount here or where or where or access to one or another. I'm talking about alimony. I'm talking about a chance of making ends meet. I'm talking about food, clothing, housing for everyone. I'm talking food on the plate. V.E.G. First - headed prime minister was in a position of government. We now know how the stability has been in this house in terms of politics, and we naturally hope that it will begin to grow stronger below. The fact is, they spoke at the highest. The prime minister, who could no longer wait for assistance to be helped, to gain a better advantage. That's why I'm afraid I'm asking the highest one. Prime Minister, for under its control nothing is being done to improve the interests of the poor: When did it change to the top? Prime Minister on Opportunities? Has she changed her mind? Or what's going on? There's nothing to mark what's set on the table here, from this corral. The General Speaker? What is the government doing for disability?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising an issue that is very important. It is not true that there has been nothing for sheep to be done for the poor before 2018. There, for the time being, 29% of the poor went up to 300,000 dollars. Pays for the New Year's Eve and was added to the management of the budget bill according to the Supreme Court proposal. Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Affairs, just to keep the facts in order. Then there is the highest. The social and equality minister has also had a conversation with the representatives of the Quantum Community and the Development Fund for a discussion plan because when the work was completed as all political parties in their time, representatives of these organizations, representatives of the labor movement and professional drivers, failed to meet up with the system changes that were involved in the welfare of microenergy clients. However, certain social security changes in the elderly were met together. On the other hand, that is in the process of doing so. A senator here refers to those who have failed, that older citizens have visited me, and wished that the changes would be judged, and how they have appeared to those whose feet are in the hands of older citizens. I think it's very important that, in view of these changes, they were to be made in increasing human blocs to older citizens, we're going over whether they've paid off. But at the same time, I have given much thought to the talks that will begin with micro-organizationists and dressbacks for micro-energy pensioners, that this work will be done as fast as possible. I believe that it is important that we watch for decent purposes and also for increased community involvement as well as for what we can do as a community to intervene earlier when it comes to increasing the growth of disability pensioners. These are big projects that I think are important, though, that we work fast. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u6	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The prime minister for this input, which made me feel rather sad, in view of the fact that here still remains nearly 80% of the disability that has not been obtained except some index correction of its pay on January 1. The micro-sponsor who have been betrayed that their compensation is in accordance with a 1 mg remuneration scale. Sixty-niner. Social security laws, microlooms that don't make ends meet, micro-organists who don't have food on the table except half of the month, eat noodles on the other half of the month, micromasks that can't buy themselves drugs, sufferers who don't feel well. And thousands of them. So I just say, "You can say that a good will is in all directions, but I want to see projects, I want to see practices, I want to see things. It's actually kind of cheap, with all due respect, at the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u7	Mr. President. I still think more things are bad. The members of Congress agree that there is a great need for a change of system when it comes to social security and payment for microenergy workers. Do we not agree that it is important that we identify the cause of the growth of microorganisms and that we intervene in some way? Or are we just going to watch that development without doing it? Do we not agree that it is important to consider why the new cost of the recording system that we all agreed on when we accepted it at the time will not yield to older citizens and disability? We all agreed on, and we agreed on the budget, to set from and with the middle of the current year half a billion people to pay down the bulging dentists and the elderly, who have been totally ashamed of how long it has taken to pay off. I think, yeah. A senator, that we are here to put together on how we can achieve good changes in this system, thus ensuring a decent advantage, a more efficient and efficient system, but also making the changes we need to make in order to intervene sooner before people go into disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u8	Well, let's start off with a...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u9	A respectable president. I'm here to discuss the state of the United States. It is now that before court there are two cases in the province because of the order of the Minister of Justice on the National Court. There is a case in the national rights of two of the four appointed by the Committee of Education, as well as in the Supreme Court for the National Rights, in which the third judge, appointed by the Court's Committee, was appointed. We have now received a letter from the U.S. Marshal, who will discuss it. But I wondered in the light of this that all the courts, i.e. District Court, Court of Justice, and Court of Court of Justice are covered by the situation that has developed in the European Court of Justice following decision and execution of Justice on the order of the Court of Justice as well as by the judgments that have come to us and brought us out of Europe, both from EFTA Court and from the European Court of Human Rights, whether the office of the Court of Justice in Iceland has no concern whether or not it is concerned that the judicial system is being read about these activities and that it will be read, unless any harmed by the captain's office on the part of the Prime Ministers. Finally, I'd like to ask, "New Minister of Justice for Trust as Director of Justice in Iceland? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u10	Mr. President. With regard to judicial matters, what would happen? A senator refers to them as still under consideration. True, one judge has already come to a decision, but another matter is still under consideration. I'm not about to begin to comment on that matter while it's being discussed in the judiciary, either at the National Court or at the Supreme Court. However, I read about this morning's mail from the press to the emissary of the General Assembly. It stated that the agent is not going to take this case for further consideration, but he does present initiative observations on stairways and defences in judicial matters that I believe are fine enough for the U.S. Marshal of Congress to do. As for my concern and my intention to intervene in the judicial system of the country, I would like to say that I have general confidence in the legal system of the country. I will. I don't think there's any reason to intervene in terms of the justice system in this country. A senator put it that way. I can't figure it out either way. A senator is suggesting that I intervene in the order given by the National Court and the Supreme Court following the incident. At least that wouldn't be appropriate. About my trust in the highest. The Minister of Justice, I have full confidence in every minister in this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u11	Mr. President. It is interesting to learn that a prime minister of judicial matters is fully trusted when a minister of justice has twice been sentenced to the Supreme Court for his services. An agent's letter makes it clear that the rational support of the Supreme Court is very clear to him. There are five cases that are already being treated in the judgment phase. We have a clear example from outside the world of what will happen when judges are not properly appointed. If these issues go all the way to the European Court of Human Rights, we are looking at the possibility of the next two years investigating whether judges at the National Court qualify to judge. I have to say, as a former lawyer, that I am deeply concerned about this position because the damage done to the Icelandic state may become such that I think Prime Minister should also be concerned about this position.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u12	Mr. President. I made it clear in my case that I think it is very important that the court system completes its discussion. I don't think it's right for the tribunal to comment on the issues in court. One of them matters as a matter of course. A senator referred to has already been ruled in the National Court and appealed to the Supreme Court, and we will expect to be judged from there. Then we can evaluate that judgment, for the Supreme Court is the highest court in the country. I don't think it's right for ministers or the Commission to comment on court reviews before they fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u13	There's two of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u14	You're referring to other judgments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u15	A respectable president. As noted earlier, the U.S. Marshal of the Council has sent a letter to the Commission and the Commission on his investigation of a case that the Committee has taken care of the decision of the Minister of Justice and procedure in the implementation of a proposal to the Council on the order of the Court of Justice. In his letter to an agent in charge, he sees the Supreme Court's decision and procedure as a result of the charges made by two candidates who were not given orders in the Country Court have been adequately informed in all the major matters of decision and order of the minister under the order of the Court of Justice. Therefore, there is no reason for him to take the initiative to investigate the matter further - a complete report. The final outcome is the way a minister acted under the order of a judge in the court of the land. There is no longer the treatment of the courts of this land, that it may be administered. Judgment has fallen at the highest court of this land. We also know that judges of the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that the Supreme Court was under investigation. The minister of justice would not have been sufficient to clarify the matter and to the supreme. The Minister of Justice would have violated the 10th paragraph. A administrative system as a result. Doubts about the rights of the judges appointed on the contrary to the hearing of the judicial committee will make the Court's right for the next few years, as it is evident that the Supreme Court of that court is not incompetent to the European Court of Human Rights will most likely do so. An agent also makes a very interesting point to the Committee, seeing that 20th is the case. Act on the Council of Government, that a Minister should seek counsel from his Ministry on Decision and that the Ministry is obliged to provide such counseling, that it has been fulfilled by the Ministry's National Experts, can be concluded by the Supreme Court that the Minister has not followed this procedure, as the counsel is intended to ensure that a minister of the rights to all decisions and that they are based on objective views and legal matters that take into account each subject. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: How will she react to certain court cases in the coming years? I repeat this in view of the fact that there is an adequate conclusion. Take care of the highest. Ministers respond to the obvious conclusion of the Supreme Court. The Minister of Justice has failed to comply with the order of justice and thus violate Article 20. law on the Council of Governments in the National Court, and how? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. That's what it's all about. A senator mentioned here is, in effect, twofold: one on the other hand, the judicial case being carried out by a judge in which the National Court has ruled, which is being discussed at the Supreme Court. Hv. According to one U.S. senator, the matter will then go to the Court of Human Rights. That may be, I can't say for that conclusion, no more than I can claim to the Supreme Court's decision. I think it's very important for the Court to complete its discussion. Just so I say it and repeat it, because of it. A senator mentions these matters. Then there is the second, which points to what we have already discussed in this court in terms of the Supreme Court's judgment that failed this case and is about the lack of compliance with the investigational administrative rights. Now, how about that? A senator in the letter of the U.S. Councilman, who I saw on the front of the News magazine today. It discusses counseling duties defined by law. However, I will learn more about the words of this letter, how it is precisely defined that ministers should follow the advice given to them. It requires that they seek advice primarily, as I was able to read from what I saw in the evidence. There may be reason to explain how we define it, however, why we should seek advice and the initiative check that an agent announces how the candidates are being conducted in public work and in the score that the agent says he will take up the initiative. I think there's every reason we're looking into it in the administration, i.e. On the one hand, regarding the advice that a minister seeks, and on the other, the process at which an agent announces that a initiative check will be initiated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Perhaps I'd like to make a mistake that justice is before, from the court's judgment. That's what I'm asking the highest. Minister to act. It is hoped that doubts will arise about the appropriate judge to address important issues in the important legal process of the land. I ask the minister how she intends to respond, from the Supreme Court's conclusions. I'd like less than that. A minister of a word that she fell not long ago in discussions about policy: To the people of the land. Injustice, wherever it is found in society, there is a threat of justice. Therefore, we must never slack off in our struggle for a righteous society. Waiting with righteousness is tantamount to denying people justice - as Martin Luther King put it in a famous letter. I'm asking a minister, is there any reason to wait? Is it not true that justice is being done today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u18	Mr. President. I think it is very important that the court is allowed to complete its mission and that the Commission will not intervene in the work of the court. In previous cases, we have had an example that the Supreme Court dismissed a requirement for an invalidation of a national court court order that is being passed in the previous court of the court of the court of the court. But I can't predict what the Supreme Court will conclude. I just want to reiterate what I've said before; the court must complete the task we've planned. That's just the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u19	V.E.G. President. On February 21, a written answer was received from the highest. A health minister for requests from those listed here. The request was this, with the permission of a president: ▪ How will a minister react to long waiting lists at the hospital Vig to reduce the problems of those needing treatment, especially those in the outdoor? In answer to a minister, we're reviewing the situation, including... reports that during the past few years, there has been an enormous increase in the waiting lists. In January 2018, there were 570 waiting lists, August 2017 445, and in 2013 the number for the first time exceeded 300 people on the waiting list, and in the last four months there has been a 28% increase. As a result, the increase in waiting lists to the hospital at V and has increased by 90% since 2013. These figures clearly show that there is an enormous increase in the Vog waiting lists today and that there are about 600 people on the waiting list at the hospital. There's a question that in one place, a minister is said, by permission of a president: In the years that followed, Kingdom funds have increased, [...] to the point of increasing the need for the service that the U.S.A. has increased. FEW was paid 658 billion in 2012. K. [...] In 2015 it was 776.1 million. K. 914 billion will be paid in 2018. K. to the work. This compares figures on conflicting prices resulting in a apparent rise in government budget when they have actually dropped considerably since 2012 and considerably since collapse. I don't want to believe that there is deliberate dusting in the eyes of a leader or a U.S. person, but to the minister may we expect actual action from the state to the hospital at Vogi with the emergency problem facing, with about 600 people on the waiting list? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This is an enormously important ministry that has shown its value for decades. I'd like to say first in my answer that I really appreciate the work being done by the U.S.A. On the other hand, we have a number of problems in regard to the list of waitings for the service given there because they are not made up of professional values. Waiting lists after treatment are, in effect, part of a person's registering by wish. It is different from other medical models that occur during a professional assessment by doctors who wish to be accepted in a certain type of service. As a result, waiting lists are incomparable with other medical waiting lists. I'd like to say it here because I think it's very important, because I sense the underlying tone that's in question at any time. A senator, that fairness is being taken care of in this discussion. I've been willing to answer for the S.A. service. I think it is very important that it is clear that this service is professionally based, that it meets professional requirements, and that success is appreciated, as in other health care services. In general, we need to make a living in the Icelandic medical system which service we would like to buy for public funds. That is what a new report of Kingdom Review urges us to do. [[The president calls.]] That is also true of this ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u21	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister for this answer, although it will answer only in the big picture. No one's applying to go into the Vog for fun, and I don't quite understand what it should be like to be professional. The fact is, the cost of consumption without receiving help is huge. There are figures on how much it costs to the public that people are sick, people that could be helped in this way. The staff's expert on Vogi is on a global scale. True, YUB is a special group in other countries. I feel that this answer is rather demeaning, and I am so worried about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u22	A respectable president. I trust each other. To keep the health minister in charge of these matters, there is a senator. The metal party is very broad, but I have to say that we really lack alcohol and alcohol prevention policies in Iceland. One of the points to consider and to consider today at the Ministry of Health is the policy of this journal. That's where they're going. There's a senator here. I'd also like to mention the tremendously important initiative taken by Robert in the affairs of those who have a problem with alcohol and drug abuse. I think it's simple that we need to allow as many views as possible when we discuss future policies in this delicate group of subjects. Surely, then, this group needs the overall support of the health system as well as the rest of the groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u23	Mr. President. I'd like to direct my inquiry to the highest level. A travel minister on reimbursement in this article, the government's policy for bankruptcy there, and perhaps, in particular, the conduct of a state-separated firm, Istavia, on such matters recently. The failure of the government of the left green and independent party has been quite a topic of discussion here. However, the issue of tourism has been at the table of the Independence Party for the past five years without any conclusions being reached. In fact, any idea that has been developed, whether called a natural pass, a comet, an update to the top level of worth tax, has been shot down just as hard by the independents, perhaps primarily. Have many become long after seeing a policy, well, some government in these matters. It is interesting, however, that in 2011, when it comes to loading passengers from Keflavour Airport to Reykjavík and back, after a fierce struggle, to remove a special Marketing Authorisation System that had greatly inhibited competition in this way. In fact, the number of passengers who took advantage of this service was discouraged, and thus they took advantage of public transportation. At last, competition was opened, but now it seems that a government monopoly has decided, in its own way, to restore some kind of special marketing system with significant reimbursement. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether this is in harmony with the Ministry's policy on travel services, as well as in reimbursement of passengers to and from Keflavour Airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u24	Mr. President. I think it's really two queries, at least two things. First, just in terms of payment, I'm not gonna stand here and say that it's been moving to set an end to that matter. We haven't done it yet, and of course, there have been ways and suggestions that have come in here. The Congress has also not been able to complete the task once they have found their way in here. They came in here some years ago. The natural pass went as it went. There were plans for the last government ever set aside. I can honestly say that I really want to finish this job, and I think the public calls for us to finish it. The whole politics need it, and I think the article itself needs to be put behind the payoff speech as well. We can look to most of the countries around us where tourism is focused, the currency is focused, the payment to be paid. It is even put on and retracted. We can see that this industry is changing rapidly, and there are some colors in the air. We have a higher salary, we have a stronger crown, we have very different companies, but it is also difficult to reimburse a company's position in the capital area and across the country, especially with respect to the use and scope of companies on the country. Today, we have the responsibility of the government covenant to look at ways to pay for it. In particular, there is a coming and leaving fee. I'm looking at it at the Ministry. I've been telling the article that there is a certain conversation. It's a big deal. About Istavia - I'm out of time, but I'll answer that question later. But my personal opinion about Istavia is that it is long ago time to look at it all together, whether it is their plans in investments, how they think about domestic flights, or when it comes to currency. I'll get to that in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u25	Mr. President. It is true, of course, when the rate of remuneration is considered in a general way, that introductions pay the first in both foreign tourists and also in Iceland itself and, according to most observations on the international flight as well. It is interesting to hear a minister's point of view of this, but suggestions for a change in prestige would have used the general public in a country where the general step would have dropped. But I find it interesting, and would be interested to hear further the minister's viewpoint on it, to see the payment taking place in Chefavík now. It's as if the monopoly company of Istavia decided to interrupt the government, or perhaps gave up the company to wait, to get paid for travel services, I don't know. But this is at least the payload that is there on the move for the two companies who are allowed to enjoy it - and are paying for it - I think I'm about 30 to 4.40% of their earnings in cash - and then those companies who're supposed to pay 19.900 bucks. for parking at Leifs Station, far beyond all the pay we see in our neighboring countries. [[The president calls.]] I think in other parts of the North, this is more or less tax-free service. [[The president calls.]] This must raise questions about who is in charge, the government, or the units of Istavia.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u26	Mr. President. First very brief about Istavia. Even a traveling minister does not have a representative in the Istavia regime. Speaking of policy, yes, we've been discussing long-term policy development in tourism. Of course, there is a great deal of policy development, but taking it all together in terms of transport plans, considering what Istavia plan to do, there is a great deal more to talk about. I've been very clear about that. Ask questions that arise. The senator asks about these parking fees, so I also asked them, and in fact I sent a message to Istavia, waiting for answers to them, will proceed with what Istavia answers. If I remember correctly, it's also a case for the district, or it's on my way to where one company is looking for justice for this. So let's see, too, what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to direct our case, our council and the highest. Secretary, to the custody. Now, the land's portents have a wide variety of important jobs all over the country. They welcome tourists and instruct them about their situation. They do nature protection and monitoring and are always there, as the EEA's website says. They're accepting people who don't know how to drive the country. Now, I hear the groundkeeping status is so that fewer groundkeepers will be available this year than the last one that has been decided to place less money in Iceland than before. I hear it's headed for an environmental disaster in many places, with a number of natural bulbs, where no groundkeeper is, but a very large number of tourists still pass through the area, stay out of paths, goes outside the fences installed, to take pictures or other things, simply because they don't know better. There is no groundman in the area to control traffic, it's a great need. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister: How many land guards were on the job last year and how many landkeepers are expected this year? And I ask in general about the position in which our natural bodies are in; the cost of an environmental disaster, which is being warned, will be several times as much as using land prices in these places.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u28	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator's inquiry. First only in general on this matter. I believe and agree that a senator's work is extremely important. It is proved natural in our national parks and in peaceful regions and, in fact, beyond, how vast and extensive their work they actually do, as the senator did. The plans currently being carried out in the Environmental Ministry institutions: I'm not aware that the Marine Department is being reduced, but it is being increased by the increased funds that are still yet to come into the institutions and connect to the government's infrastructure program. The exact amount is not exactly clear. It is now assumed that in the next three years there will be an additional national security program of some 320 million. But how exactly they will be replaced by these years will make the final decision, as the subject is in the introduction process. The situation of summer should at least be able to keep up with what it was last year in my opinion, I hope it anyway, simply from the fact that we won't put less than was put in place last year compared to having this deposit. They will also arrive earlier than last year. Last year it wasn't until May, but now we'll be able to notify the institutions sooner, they can make plans to hire people. That should make it look better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u29	A respectable president. It's a good thing that there's obviously some misunderstanding around here, because the information I got was that it was actually putting less money in the Marine Department this year than last year, so I came and asked. I guess the institutions get the most positive message. A minister is here to move and to look forward to further implementation of that infrastructure program, since it is now being introduced. Would it not be good to send such a draught, e.g. to the Environment and Transport Committee, which could look only over them and compare them with the previous years with the plans currently being made? But historically, there was a inquiry here in 2012, where 20 portents were for 190 weeks from the EEA, and another 37.5 in the Lake Earth for 448 weeks then. [[The president calls.]] I'm wondering if it's the highest. Minister would have numbers now for the coming year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u30	V.E.G. President. I hope I'm not saying anything, but I think the Ministry has a meeting with an environmental and transport committee even this week on this subject. According to the legislation on the initiation plan, the Committee should introduce the recommendations made in a three-year plan, and I assume this is happening now. I don't have the number of weeks clear by this year. It may be that the institutions have moved something into their management plans, and they are doing something about it, or they may be moving, that I don't know a hundred percent. But it's quite clear that we're going to be able to find a lot of good use there, and then we're going to be able to strengthen the defences that we're going to get. The institutions will be told about these amounts or will be drawn very soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u31	A respectable president. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to thank the highest. Minister of Justice for participating in a discussion of the state police report on organized crime that was published in October. I feel that there is a great need to discuss the subject of this report, which is extremely detailed and over 50 pages of the world, as there are many warnings to the government. In my speech, I endeavor to analyze the issues faced by the police and direct the lights to the report. I would like to begin my case on the first sentence of a diagnostic report: a level of danger due to organized crime in Iceland is a high risk. This is a very serious risk assessment and should be taken as an appeal from the police to respond. Police authorities are pointing out the problem, but it is in the hands of the authorities and our politicians who are responsible for the reaction. At first, I believe that it is proper to quote the report on page directly. 7, on permission from the President. There, authors say: It is large in the north. The impact this has on society is many and all negative. It's a good focus for today's discussion. Police are the foundation members of the democratic organization and must have the strength needed to fulfill their role. The report discusses the police'position to deal with the problem, and almost every page shows that there is a shortage of people in the police department. On page 18. 47 says, with permission from the President: ▪ [It's] the assessment of the local police that the police lack both the resources and the labor of the police in order to perform the initiative law properly, which is one of the most important factors in the battle against organized violations. Here at a council, I and others have discussed the need to increase the number of police officers, and it is unnecessary to repeat it all. But so that no one is involved, police have virtually reduced the number of roads since the beginning of this century. This occurs at the same time as police levels increase, and pressures are increased because of new issues. In this regard, there are things that are obvious, such as increasing population, increasing the number of tourists, the increase in international workforce, the increase in immigrants, internationalisation, progress in network technology, increase in network markets, increased use of communication media, etc. Therefore, the contents of this report need to be stopped, which describes a threat to the environment and the future. The police estimate that already organized gangs have been living here and have considerable strength. And the more powerful they get, the more difficult it will be for the police to cope with their operations. Part of that reality is the fact that groups are seeking financial strength to hide their worth in legal functions. In fact, in the days of the police, she had the simple task of arresting and stopping the violent man, picking up the thief, and retrieving the German. In a small community, the police knew their customers and sometimes approached them almost directly if something happened. The reality is gradually changing with increasing urbanity, rapid population growth, and technological progress, as is the fact that our society is by no means as uniform as it was a few years ago. Here the number of languages is spoken, and the background of the population is becoming quite different. All of this makes society more complex, even for the police, when dealing with crime. The worst is when criminals join organizations and become more organized into illegal activities, even often between countries. The situation is especially difficult if such an organization has considerable expertise, adaptability, and capitality. The power of gravity is hopelessness and complacency. It is fuel that motivates those who commit crime. What am I talking about? I'm talking about the report on this subject: The police point out the strong evidence that a organized criminal organization has come to this country and if nothing has to be done to them, it will only grow on the edge of the river. Let's review clues as to the scope of organized crime. I see that time is running out, but I'm going to mention it fast: people are smuggling, women, prostitutes, drugs, and capital offenses. Recent reports of capital violations, of organized burglary in broad daylight, into a home in the capital area provide support. First, the main and principal message of the report is a description of the growing extent of organized crime in this country, most often with foreign connections. Second, a strong signal that despite good intentions, the police are not prepared to carry out this assignment. [[The president calls.]] There's not a sound here. It's not a picture together. I don't have time to read the questions. They are available in printed form.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u32	A respectable president. I appreciate the voter's interest in this case and the coverage here. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A member of the U.S. Marshal's report is very serious, but it has been going on since autumn days last year. It shows that because of organized crime in Iceland, there is a high level of risk. A senator mentioned. There's a lot of risk here, a red alert. That's a worry. I'd also like to guess in the beginning, because the discussions in Iceland have often been a little bit innocent on chapters, if I may say so, I'm not going to use the word childish, and I'm sure that the senators and others who know this stuff are much better, they realized that Iceland is not in any way excluded from the risks that other countries around us face in these matters. There is no reason to expect anything other than the problems and dangers facing our neighboring countries to come here in the same way. That is why it is very important that we be prepared for it with all the available provisions. Following the release of the report, the Ministry was meeting with the State Marshal and talking, including how to deal with her material. I myself have a good relationship with the Marshals and the Police Department, and I have a very regular discussion, including the U.S. Marshals' Office. ... aboutthesethings. The report of the diagnostic department shows that initiative work is the task the police believe is the best way to prevent organized violations. There are other factors, such as passenger list analysis, and emphasis on the recording of illegal gains of offenses. The report also shows that the police lack the resources needed to carry out the above tasks, but we are not surprised at what we are doing here. The call from the police to strengthen the need for law enforcement in the country is like just a continuation of the conversation we had here last week in which we specifically discussed the police. So I went over a plan to promote it with other police officers in various police activities. Of course, there have been some operations, and last week I introduced a United States of Congress how we have planned to increase the number of researchers in a particular crime field. I think it's very important, and I don't think it's much later dear. Hv. A senator also asks what steps can be taken to prevent foreign crime groups from being caught here. However, it is proper to assume that the report shows that organized crime is not only on the part of foreign crime groups but also on the part of the Icelanders. The fact that certain factors are designed to attract foreign crime groups is very much discussed. In particular, the report says that the implementation of local government policies leading to previous losses has been in order to increase Iceland's attraction as its destination for European circuits in search of a better standard of living. It is said that these people, also those who seek here because of a situation or distress, are often more prominent and often than others for becoming victims of organized crime. To that end, we look beyond all our resources, and we've taken various steps in this regard. And they're asking about the police plan. It's and it's been ready and finished for quite some time. But I believe she needs some reexamination, in cooperation with the police authorities in the country. Work is being planned and I will contribute to the fall election.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for starting this needed discussion. In the past, there has been a masquerade of law enforcement situation at the General Assembly, and we, members of the United States, have often brought up the need for improvement in this field. We have offered specific suggestions on making more money for the police and increasing the number of jobs. Iceland has become one of the world's biggest tourist countries, with its adventurous growth. This changes society's perspective, and the police's duties grow in the same way. The warnings given in this report are serious, and most of all, I want to minimize the dangers of land and nation because of organized crime taking place here as in other parts of the world. Police need more men to investigate such activity and to curb crime, such as human halls. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that Iceland has the most priceless international reputation that there is here one of the most peaceful and safe society on earth. It involves something valuable, except that it is good for us to live in most of our daily lives with relative peace and security. One of the things that created the image of Iceland is that there are men with virtually unknown vision in public. [[The president calls.]] And that's how I think we want it to go on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u34	A respectable president. Although I haven't been in Congress for a long time, I've had quite a few discussions about the need for more people and money for law enforcement. Thus, the last time we discussed a financial program, it was repeatedly noted that the goal of identifying the police's human needs and identifying their need for financial support discussed in a Senate resolution of law enforcement plans has not been established in financial order. This was very unfortunate, and it led to the appearance of armed police officers in a country outlet, we were not adding money to visible law enforcement services. We were not strengthening small police forces in scattered areas. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister if we can expect that the budget to appear in the next few weeks is providing additional resources to the level of human resources at the level of what is clearly needed. This year's discussion showed that many authorities in many places around the country would allow a small office to operate even within the next five years, to reduce the number of policemen on duty. I thought of this when I was north at a conference on law enforcement and society at the University of Akureyri, where we were told stories of the crime scene. When we get reviews in here, they're often out of touch with reality. It was a bit shocking to imagine a policeman alone on duty, as is becoming more and more frequent throughout the country, driving about the crowded, small territory. He may be driving for a traffic accident and then he is the only responder in 20 to 30 minutes away, he must take care of everything at the same time, fostering injury, securing research purposes, controlling traffic, and ensuring the safety of those present. That's what we need to make up for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u35	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a state police report on organized crime. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for this need for this discussion, to take this report for discussion, and to introduce to the highest level. Minister. When it comes to civil safety, both of us were made aware of how different we live in. I'd like to say that I'm responding to the highest possible response. Minister, meeting with the State Marshal on the report and the challenges we face in this changed world are vital messages on our own. This calls for everyone's sense of urgency. Police activity and scope change, as well as planning and ability to react. There is increased demand, another approach to the process. It's confirmed in the report. We've had reports of a criminal crash in the capital area and elsewhere where there is evidence of an organized operation and behind it being organized as crime rings. The evidence is widely available, the drug world is harder, organized by groups that have enormous financial resources. So it is truly a threat to our community to a greater extent than ever before. This requires more, more, and other forms of work. The extent to which crime activity has become so widespread is a concern. I will continue my case in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u36	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, for taking up this important matter. I also want to thank the highest. Minister for his answers, although I feel that I need to do better than a minister did well here. This is a very important case, and it proves that organized crime has developed all its claws all over the country, including this country. When I read the report, I gave a special consideration to the fact that there is a small law enforcement in the country, such as crime groups, and the police have repeatedly stopped such production in the country. It is also shocking that the interference of police in the form of initiative law is limited by human resources. It is also necessary to draw attention to the need to increase the cooperation between police and customs, as well as both the air and the sea route, as well as the port into the country. Despite the absence of organized groups in many parts of the country, there is evidence that such groups can take root and operate there, just as there is less law - enforcement. That's another aspect of the report I'd like to discuss, but it's the business of mensal and prostitution that seems to have grown here. It's a terrible thing to think that women who have come here for protection are victims of human halls. Once again, human activity is seen to be the main reason for the growth of these activities. It's a serious situation, it's clear. Thank you for bringing it to the attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u37	President. Thank you for taking up this very important subject. There are two things I especially like about getting out of the report. I agree with what. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter, who spoke just before me, is very important that we can respond in a proper way to a man trade, especially to a worker, but also to the sexual slavery and increase in prostitution, as we have seen. There, in particular, I would like to point out that we are still lacking that the man-selling strategy is updated. It's not in effect at this time. I can't see anything on her. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: When is it possible for us to implement an action plan against the man trader so that we can respond adequately? We also know that because of the cases of human crime, some victims are excommunicated without any assistance or support. I'll ask the Minister when she intends to improve this and again submit an anti-employer plan. There's something else that interests me in this report, but it's always the police's call for premeditated research and premeditated evidence. In this context, I have to say that it is a good price to make this recommendation, but then it must also be accompanied by an active and independent police surveillance to prevent this action from being carried out in an unobtrusive way. The committee on police surveillance has not yet submitted her annual report on how she has been able to monitor police activities. So I ask the minister: When is this report due? A year has passed since she began to serve and after that. When is this possible? Doesn't Minister consider it a reason to strengthen police surveillance, independence in police surveillance, if it is necessary to give her additional authority on premeditated research?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u38	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A leader for raising this report, which is for many reasons of great importance, sheds light on the challenges we are facing in increasing numbers. I would like to go first, to focus my attention on the factors involved in international crime in Iceland. In this context, I look at the cooperation of the Icelandic police with the European and international authorities in the Schengen Community. Thus, the basis for being able to deal with international crime must be great and close cooperation with authorities in other countries who deal with such crimes. I think it's important that we make such a mess that Iceland and the Icelandic police will not be a weak link in that cooperation, i.e. that it is not only equipped to do international cooperation but can respond to and apply the information and cooperation it provides on how such crimes are handled, crime information, information about individual criminals, etc. I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. Minister of Justice whether it is completely clear that it is a priority to strengthen the police to participate in such cooperation and that there is a highest estimate. Minister of Justice that this cooperation is very important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u39	Mr. President. This important report, which includes strong warnings but as a result of a call for sufficient force and equipment for caring for its duties, shows that criminal organizations are known in the north and elsewhere in Europe to use legal, public systems for their activities. This applies, for example, to improved systems, labour services, and the welcome of refugees and candidates for international protection. This statement is supported by examples that are beyond the scope of the question. But it is also stated that the prelude of the Icelandic government has fallen to expand Iceland's attraction as its destination for traveling people in search of a better standard of living. It is stated that the score was a step toward adjusting the legal environment of this country to the rest of the Northern countries and to appoint two regulations here. For this reason, I would like to ask a minister if a minister is well qualified in these matters. The report says, with the permission of the president: For those who have applied for international protection from certain states to return to Iceland after being denied protection and accompanied by a police escort from the country to the United States, there is no question. The conclusion is that there is an organized misuse of international protection systems in Iceland. For this reason, I ask the minister: Do Ministers think enough have been done to put under this leak?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u40	A respectable president. State Marshal's analysis reports are important and must be addressed. The findings published in this report help us to understand the added challenges faced by governments and the national police in increasing numbers in organized crime practices, such as man trade, drug trade, money theft, capital violations, Internet crime, and sexual crime. There's always a decrease in borders in this operation. Therefore, we need to ensure good cooperation with our neighboring nations in the North countries, who face similar challenges and who continue to strengthen our work with European countries and international bison. So we need enough specialized personnel who are educated and trained in organized violations, thus reaching enough specialized research teams that can deal with these crime groups and ensure that the police's organization can quickly adapt to a change of reality. Although we still have much work to do, we have been on the right track for the past few years. When the police were terminated in 2014 and the first additional efforts to the police, up to 500 million, were seen in the current investigation of the state police department, in the priority of the budget, and, among other things, set up a training program for police officers. The legislators were separated from the county and expanded to make them more powerful and better equipped to set up a more specialized team to handle larger projects. The office of law school was changed by improving the college entrance to the university and the police's educational center was set up. I think this is going to make a very good impression on the law. Then there is the fact that local district attorney's office was set up and painted, such as money laundering, economic violations, and the study of sexual crimes, much higher. The cooperation between strains was also increased. So much has been done to cope with the changed world, but much work remains to be done, and it is vital that law - enforcement programs take effect as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u41	Mr. President. Many facts are presented in the following report. Although Iceland is one of the most peaceful countries in the world and has relatively low crime rates, such things can change. Of course, civil rights are always to be taken care of when it comes to any kind of police diagnostic work. Nevertheless, such work is important, and we here at the council are to be taken seriously by professionals. Risks due to organized crime in Iceland are said to be high and are specifically warned of an increase in the activities of organized crime groups, such as in human sales and prostitution. It is clear that Iceland is not an island when it comes to international crime, and of course it can often be easier and even cheaper to prevent something from happening instead of responding to a situation. This, of course, applies to crimes. Mr. President. Law enforcement is the foundation of the government. So it's up to us to finance the police. The United States organization has shown that she wants to strengthen the law enforcement department in the country, now the last time a budget was taken care of. Therefore, it is determined that the members of the board will repeatedly come to this hall and talk about wanting to do everything they want to do for the police. Mr. President. The work is talking, and all the executives have agreed on our suggestions for further support to the police just over two months ago. Mr. President. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u42	Mr. President. The increased pressure on law enforcement calls for more money and money, and it solves the collective, not quickly, but quickly. The causes of stress include a series of population growths, in part to work and live in the country, a vast increase in tourism, an increase in the import of drugs, mansales, etc., in the cooperation of domestic and foreign parties, I stress it, it has been discovered. In law enforcement, I would like to put emphasis on the general growth of law enforcement work in this country. Far more than 200 police officers are needed to stand equal to the population ratio for collapse, and under the cover of the increased traffic of two to three million tourists and the rapid increase in social activity has certainly resulted in the growth of organized crime. We're still far from the North on the scope of this, but there's still evidence and we have to let them down. I would like to give good warning not to make foreigners of the main facts in this regard, even in more ways than criminal matters. It is the complex interaction of people, both domestic and foreign, in the crime - related world, and it does not focus primarily on foreign citizens. There's a plan for a law enforcement program, and that's where I refer to the board. I'm here suggesting that when it comes to making this requested medical service card, it is not a national recommendation to include the general law enforcement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you for this important discussion here. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. I concluded my first speech on the subject, saying that this discussion and report confirmed the concern that is faced with the change and threat of society, which is caused by such a planned operation. The threat has increased, apparently, in recent times, when it comes to drugs, trades, prostitution, money laundering, and all of these. In the latter century, there has been widespread appeal that there is a great need for human intervention. It's gonna need a change of practice. I welcome a proclamation of the highest police program. A minister in whom we can handle these assignments even more. It has been observed that there is a need for a change in approach, a change in employment practices, initiative law, passenger list analysis, and increased cooperation with foreign authorities, Europol, the European Union, this operation is of that kind. It also takes extra training from the police. It has been shown that all this costs money, and a number of other projects are waiting. But I want to thank you for this discussion, and I think there's going to be quite a big deal going on in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u44	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion, it's important. The concept of organized crime has been relatively foreign to us Icelanders. We have had a tendency to believe that there were problems that would not exist in Iceland, and unfortunately others. As we have seen, organized crime has taken root in Iceland, and worse, the U.S. Marshal's Intelligence Department has assessed the risk level by organized crime. This is a lot of concern. I want to direct my case to the country or rural area in this context. Sadly, in the country, the law is far too small. Recently, in a special discussion about law enforcement, police officers were found to decrease all over the country, on the West, in the Northern West, and in the South. A report of the analysis shows that low - security rural areas create these groups, these crime groups, opportunities for production and production of drugs, and even traders. The study of organized crime is very slow and complex. Here we are dealing with complex systems, and it is important that we here provide the assistance we can provide and is necessary, such as to ensure sufficient funding and sufficient access to research. For several years, the independent party has been responsible for the legal affairs of the country. I have to say here that I feel that there is a lack of independence in the understanding of this sect. It is not enough to talk about the importance of supporting the police and then do nothing about it. It is not as if this problem is new. The Central Party proposed to raise the budget for the police on funding the budget for the last Christmas. An additional 250 million were suggested to investigate the case of organized crime. Step in the right direction. The suggestion was made. It was made up of the government party, the Independence Party, the highest. Minister of Justice, advance party and left green. Then comes the top. As a representative of the government, Minister of Justice here speaks of the importance of opposing organized crime; was given the opportunity to do so, and he said no. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u45	Mr. President. In this report, so clear, the U.S. Marshal's diagnostic department is telling us that the police can't do their duty, can't keep us safe, can't protect our country's civil rights because they don't have the resources to do that. That's what's being said. She cannot fulfill her basic obligation to protect civil rights, to protect people from man traders, to protect the citizens of the land, because of human resources. Do the police argue about their case in the report? Yes, very clearly. It uses the UN model to assess this risk, pointing out how man's ability and knowledge of breaking down and what they see to it that he will get away with it and achieves it. What do the police say? If we had more manpower, we could reduce their interest in coming here because we're trying to stop this. That's what they're saying. There's a manpower missing. And in order to hire these extra marshals, they need money. That's what this is about. It's about the fact that there's more money to the police. Piranians go about protecting civil rights, that's the foundation of our policy, and it's also a democracies. We've always talked about making more money to law enforcement because otherwise you don't protect civil rights. And that's what they're saying, it's not possible to do now because of a person. That's what this report is telling us. Either more money is put in place - and then it is revealed in a financial program that will show up in the near future, in the government budget - to the police, or that the government cannot claim to be responding to an assessment made by the United Nations model on the risk of organized crime. [[The president calls.]] It is not intended to protect the rights of the citizens in this regard. This is government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u46	Mr. President. I would like to attend the latter part of this discussion just to focus on other factors. The police have to be in a position to carry out their assignments and to protect the city safety. We should not forget, too, that this matter is not merely about having as strong a policeman as possible in the country. It's also about the fact that soiling for crime will not be more productive than necessary - but I can hardly say so, for it is most inappropriate, but we should prevent soil from being created. We have vulnerable groups in our community. We have mentioned the status of immigrants and those who are reaching out for a arrival in the country. I think we need to make a very careful examination that there will be no soil for crime. We can do so by taking care of those coming here, by being educated, and by being careful not to cultivate social isolation; that we do not create a pall so that there will be a neighborhood that is primarily inhabited by certain social groups that have been left out in the community. I think it's really important that we think about this together and hence, for example. Our goal in combating drugs; for us to consider the aspects of our society that we can improve in preventing crime.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u47	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice for its answers as well as for other members of the Parliament who participated in this discussion on the report of the diagnostics. Most people seem to take the report very seriously, and it's completely by its content and content. Of course, I missed the ultimate part. Minister wouldn't come up here and give the police a clear message, e.g. ... abouttheenlargement of police officers. I missed it, but in other respects, I thank her for the answers that were fine. I may also have intended to add something to my previous talk, especially the border. I cannot divorce this discussion without referring to the importance of the border, since organized crime is one of the greatest threats to the border. Here I'm talking about the Cheflavour Airport, which is our most important border and calls for a lot of police activity. There has been a dramatic increase in terms of terms. Police also report that the police'active surveillance of foreigners, in accordance with the content of the Schengen Convention, is limited by human resources. In this regard, there is a passenger list analysis committee, one of the most powerful cops on border control. Because of lack of resources and adequate equipment, this project, a passenger list analysis, is hardly cared for, which is considered to be a major weakness. To prevent serious crimes extending across borders, e.g. who are involved in business and drug trade, it is urgent that an efficient system be adopted in a passenger list analysis on the border.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u48	A respectable president. I thank you for your pleasant discussion and enlightenment on what is happening. Senators, most of them are very perturbing. But I have to say that, and repeat, did not tire of saying that, in terms of human resources and financial contributions to the police, there have been an increase in budgets since 20133/4,2014 up to today of 4.7 billion. There are about 2 billion indexes taken into account. For 2014, there are already 500 million approved. K. The funding to promote law enforcement, 2016 400 million. Well, 2017 up to a billion, and 2018's budget was 400 million. K. a temporary donation made in 2017. Apart from contributions to the police at 2018, there were an increase of 218 billion. K. to promote sexual abuse therapy. It's got a what. Senators getting to know each other very well. Thus, the budget has increased significantly, and police officials have been increasing, as presented recently. I hope we can do even better in the next few years. I think it's necessary, and I agree specifically with what. A senator, a advocate, of the border custody. I must stress that police officers will be increasing at border security very soon. I'd also like to mention, because we've had cooperation with other countries, that we're in a very important partnership that we have a great deal to promote. For years we've had good cooperation with Europol, i.e. The European Police Department, they have a representative inside the door. I am now particularly considering increased cooperation with the European Commission, the European Union, on criminal charges extending cross-borderly, and are fundamental premises for cooperation between countries involving organized crime between countries. Thank you. Councilmen for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u49	A respectable president. According to the Commission's decision on sexual relations, a businessman allows himself to set rules in routines and procedures without a further explanation of how to proceed once a relationship has dropped. Has the businessman repeatedly referred to it in his decisions and directed the order to the lawhouse of the parent, that falling down for reasons that concern the child, e.g. if your child is sick, should be moving on to the next weekend or to another period. My first question is: What legal basis does a businessman set up such procedures, and what does a minister think he will accept a rule as this? Here is an example from one county decision, by permission of the president: (b) Why is it important to be careful about socializing? ▪ One lays the right opinion to point out that, in addition to existing social laws, there have been a range of clear rules of action and established habits about many of the issues that are at issue by members of society. Among them, it is customary for one parent to suffer because of a lack of contact with a parent who lives with a child until one week later, without affecting the regular association on earth. Second question: 20 pars. Child welfare laws are recommended to include all those who are in position or who work for the sake of children's affairs in cooperation with child - welfare authorities. On the other hand, a carer often talks with children when socializing is available in order to study the child's wishes regarding association and on what he or she is building. However, a court case suggests that a representative refers the case to a specialist in the county office who then interviews the child at the county's office. These interviews are taken in private, without witness, and without any recording in a sound or photo. How does that fit into rule 20? Child welfare? Is it not necessary for a businessman to have a representative of the child's protection in the presence of a child? I ask if it is necessary for such interviews to be recorded, at least by the sound, so that individuals can access them? In this way a transparency in the administration of these matters would be guaranteed. Only an informed expert knows what questions were asked or at least what the child's answers are. Third question: Why have there been no guidelines or procedures in line with Article 3. The United Nations Children's Covenant, as stated by the law, is made clear by permission of a president: -Thirty-three. The contract is required by the local government to set the rules of conduct for all institutions, services and facilities designed for children and to ensure that the State's rights are met. A fourth question: In what way does the government ensure that the requirements of the child's covenant are fulfilled by the government and by those who exercise official authority in relation to children, according to the above questions? Is 20. child - protection laws, in fact, just meaningless in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u50	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has pointed to me four questions, seems to me. I would like to mention at first that, according to child law, the right to associate regularly with one of their parents that they do not live with, is not the opposite of the child's interests. On the basis of the child - law decision made by a businessman on the content of his touch rights, conditions, and how he will be treated. A wrongdoer may also refuse to determine the quality of society if such a release is in the best interests of a child. In some county decisions there are laws on how to deal with uncontrollable causes, e.g. caused by a child's illness or by parents. However, it is not surprising that such a law is found in the Court's decision, and it may vary at the same time as whether a relationship should take place for the next weekend, on the first occasion, or only when contact should be replaced. In some decisions there is no such thing as the above. It may vary whether this is part of the issue of conflict and whether it is required to state this in the decision of the businessman. So it is not that the politicians set out a procedure to do such a thing. Standard agreement forms that are found on the county website show that if a relationship falls down because of uncontrollable circumstances falls down the second time and it is unrelated to making up later. However, it may not be that this is the way parents are bound to negotiate. Of course, the principle in these matters is that humans negotiate with as much as possible in these matters. It is most successful if parents can agree on this, but in many cases a businessman has felt the need to discuss this in a decision to prevent uncertainty in this regard. The Ministry's decision has not made comments on whether or not to compensate for uncontrollable relationships. According to the Ministry's assessment, such decisions fall under the authority of the county to determine the content of the social rights, conditions, and how it will be applied in accordance with Article 47. baby law. I would like to see, however, that it might be appropriate to consider whether or not the branch office could guide more harmonization of such regulations, but it should also be kept in mind that each particular matter should always be assessed out of the interest of a child. In view of the Ministry, at least it is difficult to understand the differences between issues and demands and different approachs in each case to establish a universal rule in this matter. However, it is essential that content depends on the quality and quality of a child's life in each case. There is a question about the county interview with children where a child's will is determined to be involved and whether he does not have to represent child protection, but under child law, a businessman at all levels can seek the help of child - care professionals. A client can e.g. asked an expert to study the child's or parent's attitude and report it. Then, when necessary, a businessman may assign a specialist to give a review of certain matters of opinion and may recommend that an expert have this authority to obtain data. Comments following the bill for a change in children's law that took place on January 1, 2013, showed that it was important to realize that most of these matters were not child protection issues at all but were to be solved solely on the basis of child law, even though they were twisted and difficult to deal with. It would be necessary for the entire child's law to take into account this and to have a comprehensive set of rules for all the treatments, solutions, and resources necessary to ensure the well - being of those involved. In general remarks that followed the bill for changes in child law, it is also noted that child - welfare committees would be inappropriate for them to perform the solution to a conflict of relationships or socialization. Other means to meet the needs of a child was expected to be met. Only the role of the Child Welfare Committee can be expected in situations where a decision must be made regarding custody, law care, or contact with an entrance must be considered very specific. There is also a question about recording interviews with children, but there is an interview with a child with the goal that the child's parents can get access to such a recording, according to the Ministry's opinion, it is not easier for a child to go to that interview and then communicate with a parent, so I'll answer in brief terms. It is then asked whether there were instructions or procedures for the management of a businessman on social matters, as expected. It should then be noted that Member States should ensure that organisations to provide care and protection in accordance with national regulations, especially security, health protection, the number and qualifications of employees, but it does not require national legislation or rules to ensure that all institutions in which children are served and cared for. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u51	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry and to initiate this discussion, but you do not discuss all of this in just one minute because it is a very busy and complicated case but important. What I would like to emphasize is that the price of all means should be sought to ensure that society is acting in the most natural way, whether by agreement, by decision, or by court. It is very important that this can be done in a natural way, and if anything comes up - because if this has been accepted or judged, it must be in the child's best interests, we've gone through it - it has to be possible without taking time - consuming and costly actions to make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u52	Mr. President. It is a great project and a great responsibility to have a child. When adults accept this responsibility, it is a little bit of a matter, and often it is now that they understand after they are finished. Parents, usually fathers, have reported a great march and long - standing issue of public relations when they are striving to care for their child's responsibilities and to protect his child's rights and needs. Does a minister think that an equality is really possible for mutual custody in the case of a child's parents who have never been together? Does Minister think there's a violation in the system, and what do you think?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u53	A respectable president. It'll be fun to go through the minister's answers, but there were some things I cut by, e.g. that a businessman has not established protocols. In the quote I read earlier, the businessman refers to this clear principle and a fixed practice of many of the issues that are at issue with members of society. There seems to be a government official who accepts a rule warrant, but a minister still says that the county official did not set out such procedures. Then I wondered, " Is it true, what a minister says or what the businessman himself says in his decisions? ' This is what I think is something that needs careful research and how things are growing there. I asked four questions, and I realize that it's hard to get answers to all of them that in five minutes, but that's the timing, and that's the time limit, and I expected a minister to organize that answer in a way that would be available in five minutes. But the key question may be the last question where the child's covenant is linked to the previous questions, since it should be taken into account the child's will for their maturity and age. In the decisions I have been given to consider, in precise decisions, it is indeed the fact that the will of my children is not held in high esteem. It seems that they are working from older laws, since only the right parents who struggle with the baby are being treated, but the child will not have his will clearly carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u54	A respectable president. It is quite unrealistic to answer such profound questions in this way. That might have been a good point for why. A senator aims to direct this inquiry to a written answer. At least I've tried to go over it a little bit. I'm righting what I said, that it wasn't the proper procedure of the county. On the other hand, an individual office may be working in a practical way; it is not unusual or excluded from doing so in some way. But this is not the case with the agreement. I also mentioned that I feel that the Ministry would guide the people of the county so that the harmony would be more consistent in this regard. In terms of procedures or guidelines for the management of these matters, in accordance with the United Nations Children's Convention, I may have offended myself, but I do not remember entirely, in my first response - I would like to mention that the law of the State should ensure that legislation or rules regarding the activities of all the institutions where children are served. When it comes to custody and relations, children's laws include rules on handling such matters. In addition, the principle of the paediatric covenant has been particularly legal in Article 1. baby law. The guidelines apply to ensure that, at the Commission decision on sexual relations, there is sufficient information, including the child's will, if there is age and maturity, so that the businessman can make the decision that a child is in the best interests of his life. Of course, governmental laws also apply to the release of child law. All of this is important when an elder seeks to determine the best way to treat a child. The circumstances in each case may vary, but the decision on the matter should always be based on the child's quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u55	Mr. President. The background of this inquiry is that for some time it has been customary to charge a maximum price for the stay of individuals in a nursing home, i.e. the object that they stay there or live must pay for the stay. It's like the highest. A minister may have no doubt about it, and members of all members of the council are now at least 400 you. K. per month. However, the signed question has been that it may be a sort of collection for health care that is considerably higher than what we have in the general system. The height of the health - care cost for individuals is considerably lower than that of those numbers supported by the Ministry. This is really the reason for the inquiry, i.e. how much is involved in nursing care because of health care and how it is divided up. We all know the cost of housing in Iceland. We've heard numbers and discussions about rent prices being pretty high, but at least you haven't heard much talk about renting up to 400 yous. K. or more for housing, but there may be no doubt. As a result, I believe that it is important that the minister and the Ministry try to factor this cost, this expense factor, a little down to determine whether we are unintentionally and probably unintentionally collecting for health care to a greater extent than we had planned. Then I ask if a minister will consider that the same standards will be used both in public and in nursing homes. Finally, whether the medical expenses of the nursing home will be considered to be reviewed in view of the fact that the health - care cost will be no greater than that of other citizens. Even if we were very willing to appreciate something that would not be a medical service, even if it was only 5 of you. K. During a month that would be a health factor inside this, we would still be over the total expenses that other older citizens have to pay for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u56	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson here refers to me by word of advice about the cost of nursing and health care. I try to answer questions in the order he brings them. First, he asks, " How much of the cost of nursing is due to health care for members of the household and how much is involved in other services, such as social services? ' The answer is that the payment for public nursing and nursing sufferers is divided into temporary expenses, costs for basic health care, and housing costs. Nursery is also paid for nursing care, and together these joints form a day's expenses. The cost of living as a day - to - day service in nursing and in the nursing room is to attend all the expense of hibernation except basic health care and nursing care. The cost of death is about 41.7% of the average of the nursing room budget, but basic health care services are daily and will depend on the health care programme No. 427/2013, on the health - care payment of institutions for aging. Basic health care is about 3.6% of the average price for nursing. Housekeeping costs are intended to cover all the general maintenance of housing, management, property bills and insurance, but not stock costs, birthdays, or major housing improvements. The cost of nursing is about 6.8%. Nursing is a day - to - day service, and the amount is linked to the nursing weight of each nursing home. Nurse services are about 47.90% of the average day required for nursing. Here we were tempted to break up the overall number, as was later called. Secondly, why? A senator as to whether the current person will consider that the same criteria will apply to the total cost of the state's health care care services for the inhabitants of nursing homes and apply to other citizens. The answer is that the maximum pay factor of a man's household per day is at most equal to the amount of living expenses, as shown by a question without basic health care and without payment for housing and nursing. The calculated sum of this year is 409,104 k. in a month, which is only less than the cost of living, which is 417,745 k. per month. Therefore, nursing homes do not participate in health - care payments, and they also offer medical treatment without cost. It has not been suggested that nurses in nursing homes benefit part of health care. Third question. The candidate is on the way to see if the person listed here believes that the cost of nursing citizens will be reviewed to see that their health - care costs do not exceed those of other citizens. The premium of the question means that nurses pay for health care that other people of the country do not have to pay, but because their current arrangements do not allow nurses to pay a part of medical care, according to the answers given, they are not to be less committed than other citizens in terms of medical care. Then, for example, on May 3, 2016, the current housing and social security minister appointed a group of workers to visit a change of arrangement in nursing homes, but the staff is still working and is hoping to get his proposals soon. A respectable president. I hope these answers answer those questions as questions arise. A senator stands out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. What calls attention to the responses and calculations of the Ministry is, in fact, giving it to itself, as I am, that the payment share of a nursing home is not the same proportion as the overall cost of the stay of a nursing home. In some way, they calculate that whatever the individual might have to pay, i.e. The maximum as high as possible. Minister entered, 409 Thoust. If everything is for something other than health care. I think in the eyes of the nurses this isn't the way it is, i.e. They view it as a means to participate in the total cost of the stay. In their eyes, too, this change may be thought to mean that by paying up to 40% of the total cost, they are actually paying larger percentages, larger percentages, for health care. I think that might be the highest question. The minister and the Ministry should roll up. I imagine at least, as I only came into my first speech, that very many people think it's worth 410 yous. K. a month before food and shelter, even in an institution, is well planned. If we look at how much less money we're going to go to older citizens every month, which is considerably lower than that amount, we'll see that there's some kind of error in my mind that I think it would be interesting for the Ministry to take a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u58	A respectable president. I thank you for the inquiry and the trial in the second speech. Senator. What a sobering thought that will be! A senator bases his inquiry on, whether there is a need for more transparency about what is behind the price and what is actually being paid for, so that no one is tempted to run through it. It is very important that we make clear, especially for those who enjoy the ministry. The Government Convention of the New Government states that trust in the nursing home needs to be further established. Of course, it is also in this discussion that it is quite clear that what is responsible for the treasure of the Kingdom also needs to be clearly laid down so that it does not happen in this regard rather than in others, that the payment of patients is too high.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u59	Mr. President. Medical transportation is an important link in the health care of the people of the country. It's the one that used to be. The demands of a medical vehicle were that it was primarily used by drivers, especially at the second century C.E. Modern automobiles are actually well - equipped with emergency - diseased wheels, which calls for their ability to operate machinery. Hospital transporters are well - trained and well - trained individuals who have clearly defined procedures on board. This group of subjects has been well discussed in the recent organization of the ministry, who will care for the ministry, how and where sick vehicles should be located and more. The Red Cross of Iceland has been a prominent member of a medical transfer since this service was established and has been a valuable project to them. They have cultivated it with great affection. The situation is now that all medical vehicles in the country are owned by the Red Cross of Iceland, otherwise controlled by health care centers, or clinics in most parts of the country. That's why I've asked for it at the highest. Minister to answer a few questions about this important service. The first question is: Will the Chief Minister agree with Iceland's Red Cross, which has been uncontracted on this business for two and a half years, or are there any other way to which? I understand it's still being said and it's not over. Second, if a minister intends to negotiate with the RKI, for how long? Third, will new contracts include changes, such as an increase or reduction in the number of sick cars, and their location in the country? That subject had considerable attention to the health authorities for several years. At that time, there was to be a significant reduction in the number of automobiles around the country. Fourth, how is the long - term emergency transport system in front of a minister? May be the last discussion of the arrival of rescue teams and their first national response, which is practical in several cases. And finally: Have all aspects of this service been evaluated, those with regard to the quality of the ministry and the cost of business, maintenance, and development?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions involved in medical transportation. I think this seminar is an occasion in a special discussion. Although the book may not have left me wanting a special discussion with why. A senator might wish we had such a conversation. Hv. A senator first asks if there is any way to negotiate with Iceland's Red Cross, which has been uncontracted, as the inquiry says. Senator. To answer that recently, a contract with the Red Cross in Iceland has been established on the provision of automobiles and equipment for medical transportation. It's important that this work runs out as fast as possible. It is my hope that this work will be done in good collaboration with the Red Cross. Secondly, why? A senator to see if the person standing here planned to negotiate with Iceland's Red Cross and the length of time. To answer, there is a three - year contract with the Red Cross, and I hope that it will soon settle for such a deal. After that time, the Ministry will take over the mission. I think it is necessary to move the project to the Ministry, so we have free hands to shape the future treatment procedure in accordance with the proposed measures, as well as to my firm stand, and I think that we all agree that strong medical transportation is part of the health system. Third, ask why. A senator whether new contracts will involve a focus adjustment, such as an increase or a reduction in the number of medical vehicles and a change in their location in the country. My answer is that we've been reassigned to support the ambulance fleet whenever possible. The decision to buy ambulances and equipment in a new contract is based, among other things, on advice from a health care provider in a medical transport and the views of an ambulance. The requirement for currently existing negotiations is to increase the number of ambulances and to increase the percentage of large cars, while the health care providers put much emphasis on increasing the share of large cars. The target is to obtain an ambulance with a so - called covered box, a larger ambulance equipped to handle more complex medical cases than a general ambulance, while ambulances in the capital area focused on adding such a car to the fleet. Car equipment are also being developed to improve patient safety and to facilitate emergency transport activities. For the location of a vehicle, it should be noted that a number of vehicles per area should be specified and not the location of a second vehicle. As a result, it is possible to move vehicles within the territory, as is considered best to serve the needs of each area at any given time. Hv. A senator also asks how an intensive care organization will long - termly look at the person being present. To answer, the aim is to initiate work as early as possible to develop a complete and relevant policy in future medical transport, but there are special policies on the hospital flight. Hospital transport is one of the primary health care systems and often the first contact point at that time. The aim is to establish a therapeutic transport that ensures that all citizens of the country have a temporal field reaction, provided by well-trained professionals, and access to the best health care facilities within the designated time range. Already there is a medical flight in an internal examination, as we have seen. When there is a decision regarding the medical flight, employment will be attacked with policies due to medical transport in general. A body of members can be pleased by bringing results in mid - March, so it is only within the next few days. At last, it's a question. A senator whether all aspects of this service have been evaluated, both in the quality of the ministry and in the cost of business maintenance, maintenance, and development. The answer to this question is that there has not been a formal assessment of factors asked of by the Red Cross agreement, of the care and management of ambulances, but to the contracting of ambulances and equipment, it is seeking to secure quality and good prices as far as possible. The cars are designed to form always on the basis of tenders and in accordance with international standards. A respectable president. I hope I've been lucky to answer any questions. A senator for this party. He's probably following some of the questions here in the second question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u61	A respectable president. I also want to thank you for this important discussion. I just want to say, in the beginning, that answers to the highest. A minister gives you a little hope that this group of subjects is gaining increased attention within the medical system. However, the importance of this group of cases, which increases from day to day, as outside hospital service or hospital transportation. The trend is that doctors and health care professionals will always be more specialized and more specialized and get together in fewer places, making it more difficult for people to live in the same time as those outside the hospital service will always be better equipped and better equipped and able to do their work much better. I agree that it is important to watch this collective service and do this plan and to have the Medieval Flights, the Medieval Hospitals, and the ambulances underneath and see how it plays the best part together. Education in this category also needs to be assured and how to associate with distant health care services and how to do this in the most practical way possible for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u62	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you very much for bringing up this important matter. I'll agree with the highest. Minister here is the subject of a special discussion, and it may even double or triple. I agree with what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur, Árnason's chief review. A minister gives me hope that this class is being given increased attention and even increased or strengthened there. We know in many parts of the country that there has been a reduction in the services of the population and in my district, the North-east standard, I would like to mention, in particular, Ólafsfjörður. The ambulance has been removed, people experience less security and impaired service, and it is certainly not good when that situation arises. This is true in other places where this service is being reduced, so I call out to learn what the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u63	A respectable president. Here we will discuss emergency transportation, which is an important component of health care. I take to heart what has been discussed in the discussion about the importance of looking at health care as a whole and making a comprehensive plan for hospital transportation in the light of health care organization. I'd also like to stress that when it comes to making a decision about an increase or decrease in the number of ambulances and hospital transporters, the effect on other factors, such as the public defense, the impact on fire departments, the removal of educated ambulances, and the effect on other response programmes that may be carried out at first reactions to accidents or natural hazards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u64	Mr. President. There are many things to do when we discuss ambulances and ambulances. Of course, the above inquiry is quite extensive and has to do with these important issues. Of course, we've talked to a minister about the situation in Ólaafsund, the mountainous region, and have described our dissatisfaction with the findings of the North American Institute for Health. It has been very difficult for the medical facility to do so. Now that we've finally got a lot of leftovers, and the after-up is going to have a meeting that I understand, an open population meeting, because of the case that must now be said as it is, rather late in the ass. Of course, people experience that they do not affect decision - making when it is done. I felt that the answers were unclear to me about some aspects of this matter, especially when it applied to the schedule of action, and I felt that this was not entirely clear. I certainly hope there will be a representative from the Ministry at this meeting that will be able to answer the local questions that the National Institute of Health has not answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u65	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for answers that were guessed clearly. The Ministry intends to take this service to heart after three years without having considered whether it is more practical, whether the service will be better, clearer, or more effective. It will be understood only to make the Red Cross a dissatisfaction of dissatisfaction over a 60 - year period. Or what? Sadly, this continued gauze can become even more difficult for a car and other missions to take over to the rescue forces. Is it the Minister's policy that the rescue crew will care for all the ambulances in the country? Will contracts then be made to rescue forces in order to care for that role? It's not a big deal, because the Red Cross owns all this fleet of cars. These fleets are valuable; they cost at a high price of another billion dollars, as they do today. It is disappointing that the decision to transfer it to the Ministry is not to be handled with practicality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. Parliamentaries who have participated in this discussion. First thing I want to do is answer it. The chief of the people, the Guðjón of Brjánsson, concerning his speculations here at the end. The decision to bring the ministry to the Ministry without any problems, any policies, economics, or anything like it is somewhat cynical to him. I want to pray. The senator to show reasonableness in the matter of not having such a assessment in the weeks that have passed since the office of the company of Jehovah's Witnesses. I'd like to remind him that the suggestion of his question is to point out the obvious, that the situation was that there were no treaties in this case, i.e. The Red Cross had no contracts. I felt that there was the right to make the first deal with the Red Cross and then use the three years to make a clear analysis of the project. That there is room for both health care and the Red Cross, what was the objective of the government in this case. I would've kept the exact same with, me and what. A senator, would agree that the treatment should be part of the public health system. I'm surprised if I don't. Here's the point. Councilmen own the factors involved in making special decisions throughout the country, especially in the northeast. I want to agree with the concern that it is important that safety is not in the table and that the local people experience that there are both financial and professional reasons behind any decision. Also, I would like to agree with the views observed in the course of the night. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's importance in working together outside the hospital services and telecommunications services with the aim of ensuring public access to health care independent of the local community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u67	Mr. President. I'm at the same hay-horn. Of course, there is no doubt that health - care programs, its organization, and its access are close to the common people in the country. There are positive reports from the health care unit in Reykjavík that are going better now than in recent years, with health care professionals running a race in the cheek, and that's good. The system has been modified, it has been put in catalysts that may include. ... tothis. We have excellent happy people in various fields of health care that are useful to our basic service. This has proved true in our case. They are to make more practical use of the variety of knowledge and training. The range of services around the country has not carried its bars for years; after 2008's economic collapse, our weapons have been severely damaged and our weapons have not yet been taken out of the country. Thanks to the enthusiasm of the staff, it didn't get worse. But the country's settlement has not yet reached the challenge of fulfilling its earlier ministry. Of course, this is an important matter, and we are talking about settlement, equal to the inhabitants of this country. I'm going to lay down for the highest. Minister six questions that sound like this: How does a minister plan to work on the construction of health care nationwide? That's a big question. And second, how will a minister secure the medical facilities in the country? Third, is there any organized work that is aimed at the compromise in this regard? That's what I'm talking about in the country. Fourth: Does Ministers believe that it is an acceptable arrangement for contractors to maintain medical services in many communities? Fifth: How does limited health care influence the well - being and safety of the population in the country and their attitude toward continued living there? We are concerned that this core element will not help to maintain a successful population throughout the country. sixth: What is the economic and professional impact of chronic health care within the medical system?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u68	A respectable president. I thank you for the questions and I'm going to wind up answering them. I don't think I could do with time. The first question is how a minister intends to work on health - care projects throughout the country. So it is to answer that the directors of the six medical institutions in the region, the directors of the two hospitals, and the director of the health care of the capital area now work, along with the Ministry's specialists, to identify the need and use of special health care in all health care districts of the country. The objective is to ensure that all citizens have access to the health - care providers as well as those of others. This service can be performed by the specialist being employed at a national health facility, by a specialist coming from the National Hospital or Hospital in Akureyri, or by using technology through a long - term health service. The Ministry also has a field - service operation, with the aim of ensuring that all the people, regardless of their residence, enjoy special services, whether by illness or by accident. The above work is part of a general meeting of health care services we've called Who does what? Hv. Second, a senator asks how a minister intends to secure the health care professionals's positions on the country. The answer is as follows: As a leader it is known, funding for medical care in the country's area is being provided, compared to the population in individual areas. In general, according to one medical facility, every thousand inhabitants are living in a rural area. Thus, funds are available, but in recent years health care professionals have chosen to employ themselves as workers at clinics rather than to be payers. Whether any organized work consists of reforms in this category is asked. The answer is as follows: In recent years, health care professionals have been increasing and tried to secure their health care facilities. Experience has shown that expert doctors often sit in the districts where they have studied. One of the main problems facing surgeons living in rural areas is the heavy load of duty. Doctors are less inclined to assume positions if the job comes with a rear shift every day for weeks and months. One way to lighten the watch load is to unite a watch area. The possibility of technology also needs to be looked to, and there are fine results of the ministry in Klausri, where a nurse is on duty every other week to a doctor. Fourth, ask why. A senator whether I consider acceptable arrangements for contractors to support medical services in many communities. The answer is as follows: Medical care varies greatly according to medical practice, since all medical professionals, such as the Southnesian Institute, are paid by health care professionals, to the fact that more of the doctors are contractors. The highest rate of contractors is now at the Eastern Institute of Health, which is devoted to free and pasturage but also because of the lack of agreements for the ideals of physicians. At the Western Institute of Health, the proportion of contractors is also high, with 9 of the 15 qualified doctors involved in the operation. It was hoped that in the contracts of Iceland's Medical Association and the secretary of finance in January 2015, there would reduce the impact of rural health care projects, but unfortunately it did not. The Ministry of Justice has regular consultations with the head of the health institutions, and there is a common way of ensuring acceptable medical care as well as other healthcare professionals in all the country's HCPs. The fifth question, please. A senator wrote: "How does a poor health service affect the well - being and security of the population in the country and their attitude toward continuing living there? I think that's what. A senator can even answer this better than I do. The answer to my components is as follows: Logistic research has shown that safe health care is one of the main factors in the country's opinion of national sensitivity. A key concern for the health care programme is the same as that of a health care professional, i.e. that there is stability in the care of doctors and other healthcare professionals. I'm fully aware of the defects of the medical contractors' contractors, i.e. that it is harder to ensure those who are so important in the ministry. On the other hand, rather than having the local community without medical care, the managers of the institutions should be viewed as choosing, normally, to employ a physician. In recent years, experience has shown that each contractor often cares for the same community for a while, and so there are several interconnections in the ministry in some places. Finally, the question arises. One member of the body is a professional and financial influence of broken health care within the medical system. The answer is: I have already brought about the professional effects that may result from a lack of association in the ministry. The economic impact on inhabitants of rural areas can obviously be great if they have to go far from home for health care. I hope that by the work I referred to in my reply to the lead figure's first question, this may be reduced by bringing the ministry to the people rather than by the people who have to go for long - distance service. Health - care providers'assessment of the financial impact of doctors choosing to operate in a more efficient way than their own. For example, by means of the procedure, there is no special payment on such factors as health problems and school licenses, but it is clear that this aspect of health care is one of those who may be most challenging to seek solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u69	A respectable president. Here's another important subject we'll discuss today, which is very important. But I think it is important for us now to define what health care we are going to provide in the country and in the medical institutions there so that we can understand the needs and the needs of such things. It must also ensure that in areas such as South and Southnes, where there is unprecedented population growth, this can be handled and that the health system is ready to do so. But at the same time in some places, there is also the unprecedented increase in tourists. Because of language difficulties often and often, and because they have no backyard in the province, they take much more time to care for them. We need to act. And I also think we need to find out what privileges we can take better care of in our home so that the pressures of our university hospital won't be too much, e.g. by increasing the number of birth sites, by promoting accidents and other activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u70	Mr. President. Actually, we're discussing something very important here. Health services in the country are certainly one of the key areas in control of farms that can affect the site. The education of family doctors, who are at least one of them, if not the main river for Kingdom service in many lands, is absolutely essential. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest power. A minister to look especially at the program and to try immediately this year or in the coming budget to improve it so that we may look ahead to solve the matter in the next five to ten years. It takes between five and ten years to produce a medical doctor after he finishes basic studies. It is of utmost importance that the Ministry take good care of these resources to ensure that we receive these services worldwide.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u71	V.E.G. President. Here we are still discussing something very important. Here's a lot of questions. I must express my admiration for what a minister managed to get over much material and answer here in a short period of time. Clearly, we need to prepare for changes, things that have just changed. The national service has been merged. It's true what people have been talking about here, it's one of the factors people watch when they decide where they're going to settle down. That's a huge factor. I can't bear to think that it will cause further deportation of the world's facilities across the country. So, like the above - mentioned speaker, I urge a minister to consider how we can promote home healing. Then there's a question about the areas, what we focus on, and in which areas. I'd like to point out the Hospital in Akureyri, whether we can expand and strengthen its place for the service of Eastland, Northernland, and even more territories, and even take over patients from the south to relieve other institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u72	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the Minister for having covered all the questions in such a short time. It is an achievement to frame these six questions in and five in the inquiry ahead of the five minutes. Better. The question I've come up with is what I've experienced in my life, I've lived in the country, that there was a family doctor in each room, anyway, the space I lived in, but not today. I wondered, " Why could we do this, but not now? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u73	President. Thank you very much. Minister for answers that were quite clear. Our settlement is not calling for much. They call for stability and security in this fundamental service. The basic service is, in my opinion, the most important service we render, i.e. Health care. It must be in a very fixed position to be acceptable. Of course, it has been a real challenge to get the expertise out of the country on a regular basis. It would be a special petition if it was given to the country. But every story as it is must be told, it collapsed pretty much during the collapse of the economy. We lost a lot of professionals from the country. The response was to get contractors to work. At that time, the pay system closed, and it became contractors, brought an account, the remuneration system did not know that these men were employed, and when these rose, these institutions were down to the end. Today, these institutions could not afford to have fixed doctors, as mentioned in Western and Eastern lands, unless they receive correction for financial management. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister: Are there any motivations to obtain doctors? We've changed the credit system in Reykjavík. Is there a similar situation in the country? Is the telecommunication system, often called telepathy, on the weight of the weight? Do we see any evidence of that in the near future? And this new business arrangement, is there any possibility that it could pass through the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u74	A respectable president. I want to thank senators who have participated in the discussion. I'd like to start with a question. As for this position, I don't think people are aware, and at least I was aware of it until I heard of those who have had to contend with the situation of not having enough money to get fixed hired men to work because in some case, it's cheaper to have engineers. When this is not added to the institutions, there is no direct motivation to get permanent employees to work. This made me think seriously, and I feel that there is something that needs further consideration. Hv. A senator asked about the payment system that has been well spent in the health care of the capital area. Yeah, it's something we want to see a chance to move out of the country. That's an opinion. I met with the Féla medical surgeons at their work meeting on Thursday, where there was a unique opportunity to learn what concern health care would be all over the country. Of course, these are the ones that have also been the result of caring for family doctors, simply. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson referred to the education of family doctors. It is my desire to improve the management and finance the increased education of family doctors. It has been noted that developing a special feature or strengthening the role of domestic medicine that leads to regional medicine or cures throughout the country. In fact, it is up to us in the government to emphasize this aspect, for it is a special situation in which these doctors live. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason spoke of unprecedented growth. I agree that this is an amazing variety of health - care facilities that need to be looked into. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson asks why we could do this before not now. That is a question we need to consider. I haven't answered now that my time is over; though I'm good at speaking fast, I can't talk on the absorption so that time ends while I'm talking. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna have to do this, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u75	Mr. President. I would like to raise questions to the health minister regarding midwives and their right to prescribe birth control. It has not been so long since the bill was put in place, and it was a long time before at General meetings, where it was suggested. I think it's a great deal of national language. Back in the time of the change of pharmaceutical law - it's not too long ago, 2016 I think - theocracy itself emphasized the importance of bringing it in so as not to have to wait any longer for this. There have been very frequent and extensive discussions with these legislation. Somehow, we haven't been able to finish it, but in the North countries it's a lot of that way. It was also noted that in our neighboring countries, such as Sweden, an official surgeon had this right, and there were no neglects in it. It was also in the Netherlands where midwives were allowed 2014 to prescribe hormonal contraceptives and copper and hormonal intrauterine devices. There they had to attend a special course of Web studies, and there have been other things that have been done abroad that have enabled midwives to prescribe these drugs. It is worth noting that our education here in Iceland is fully comparable to education in our neighboring countries, so we should be able to follow that example. I think there would be a lot of practicality, about advice on contraception, that it's in the hands of a midwives. This was about family doctors and such, the need for stress. I think our health system needs now more than often in the past that we use the knowledge of all the people we can, and nonmedicals, to achieve more teamwork for the patients and the inhabitants of the country. Light mothers have said that they would like to prescribe hormonal contraceptives, birth control medications, breast infections, and other measures associated with diabetes during pregnancy. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: What is the minister's attitude that midwives should receive this warrant, i.e. to prescribe specific medications, and to consider Ministers to prepare to provide the midwives of the above sources, e.g. A course, mentioned at the next time? And if a change is considered desirable, when could it happen?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u76	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir has addressed to me a verbal request that a midwives prescribe medications and tools. First of all, ask me why. A member of my opinion that midwives are allowed to prescribe certain hormonal contraceptives, medicines used for home birth, antibiotics for breast infections associated with breast-feeding, and medicinal products for the benefit of various diseases and complications of pregnancy. The answer is as follows: I am concerned with better use of health - care nurses and midwives with the goal of promoting more efficient health care without the threat of patient safety. This suggests that it is important to consider the implementation of specific projects within the medical service to professions with sufficient knowledge to provide available services. For some time, it has been considered that nurses and midwives are allowed to prescribe hormonal contraception, but the law has no. 25/1975, advice on sexual counselling and instruction on pregnancy and abortion and sterilisation include: It should be noted that people should be provided with an educational and advice on how to use and how to manage contraception. According to the law, this counselling and instruction should be provided at medical and hospital centres and should include: active nurses and midwives To date, these trade groups have not been permitted to prescribe hormonal contraceptive methods, but it is thought that this option has resulted in the failure of the counseling services for which contraceptive use has not been established as planned. The Ministry of Health provides an overall review of the product laws and aims to submit a bill for full re-evaluation of the products at the next assembly. In that work, there are others. the literature of nurses and midwives to prescribe specific medicinal products for consideration, with the primary objective of improving health care effectiveness. However, it must be kept in mind that the specific medicinal product does not have any adverse reactions or risks and therefore it is important to prescribe a prescription for nurses and midwives to follow clearly the procedure and observation. For the aid devices, it is in force from 2013 Regulation on helper strength but under the scope of Regulation it is required that the healthcare professional's advice be followed by the first patient's request for help. In the older Regulation on the same topic, all applications for help were required and therefore were modified by the physician. However, for the first application, the doctor's review is still needed for a mechanical, mechanical, lymphatic, insulin pumps, glycaemic students and such. Blood knives and blood thinners are also part of a treatment aid system, but these tools need to be used in case a woman is diagnosed with pregnancy diabetes and therefore requires her first application to be told by a doctor. The rationale for continued prescribing medical management is that these tools are used to treat certain diseases and therefore medical evaluations are a basis for treatment. Healthcare professionals, however, can give a review when applying for the renewal of tools. A respectable president. Hv. Second, whether the one listed above would consider preparation to provide the midwives of the above, such as the course, with the possibility of beginning the next. The Senator also asks when the change may be considered desirable. The answer is as indicated by the previous question, the complete review of the medicinal product laws, and the work itself. to check whether other trade groups should be authorized to prescribe medicinal products to some extent. In terms of the aid tools, changes have not been particularly considered in order to clear light - room sources to prescribe tools. However, my opinion is that there is good reason for considering whether such changes are desirable, especially those of a midwives, to prescribe treatment tools for pregnant women, such as blood bars and blood knives. I will use this observation to work together with the work being done and to review the medication laws, hoping that by doing so I might have answered questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u77	A respectable president. I wanted to expand the question just so that it does not apply just to midwives. The minister also mentioned nurses, so I wanted to update the question and ask for more drugs than just hormonal drugs. For example, in the United Kingdom it is customary for nurses to prescribe a large number of drug products to patients, making it more time for doctors to perform diagnostics than constantly to be making new prescriptions, etc. I ask if there are even more effective efficiency involved in taking into account more drugs than those discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u78	Mr. President. I'd like to add a little bit to this discussion. I agree there's a why. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir to bring up a matter of great importance and agrees completely with the fact that these sources are supposed to be there. However, these factors should be clearly included in the education of nurses, i.e. that this is particularly considered in their basic studies. Medical science is taught in primary nursing school, not in primary midwives, because it is a sublant of nursing as it is today. It's very important that we take it there, and we need to agree with the University of Akureyri and the University of Iceland. Perhaps it would be flat in such a way as the first one, Mr. President - I'm sorry, Mr. President - to consider whether midwives and nurses were authorized to renew medication.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for bringing up this important subject. I can imagine, without me saying that I'm an expert in this field, that we could probably use people's energy and hours better if they could be brought in at any given moment. A senator brings it to note, but at the same time, I agree that we must not give a discount on professional knowledge, education, or anything like that. All things must be clear, so that one class is not going into the realm of another, it's all set. I trust those who care about it completely to take care of it. At the same time, we may be able to focus on more teamwork, strengthen the districts across the country, the health care facilities there, so that professional people of different classes have strength and support. I think it might help us to strengthen our health care system around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u80	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by celebrating the question from what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, as well as her answer to the highest degree. Secretary of health. I think it is very important for women and their health care that midwives get this right to prescribe medication. Of course, they are all the well - prepared students. I'd like to draw special attention and celebrate the emphasis on the aid system because I think it's very important to have the help tools in this room because the right use and good access to help tools can prevent the need for medication, as well as the right use of long - term tools can improve the health of people. That's why I'm glad the helpers are here on the question and to the top. Minister's plans are to include them in their work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u81	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and for those who have participated in this discussion. You see, I think it's important to bring the aid tools. I'm also happy to be the highest. A minister will take it for granted and have it examined. It is also a pleasure to know that a complete review of the pharmaceutical law will be submitted until the next autumn and that this subject will be considered. And because the current surgeon is about to work as an assistant at the highest level. I trust the minister, according to the last saying, that he shall be a scribe and a counseller in this matter. Of course, there may be differences in viewpoints as shown here, whether to revise medicine rather than original. It may well be some medication, but I believe, based on six years of study with midwives who are nurses at the foundation, i.e. well, those who've graduated many in the past few years should follow the examples of the northern countries and the Netherlands too, as I mentioned earlier, and allow this. I can accept that in any of these situations, whether in the case of an aid machine or some particular medication, other than e.g. birth control medicines or any of the situations mentioned above may be at the beginning of your doctor's appointment followed by follow-up by a nurse or midwives. It may be taken into account that they can prescribe it. We need to make use of all our health - care providers. We have very well - educated people, and there is really no reason to increase the pressures of doctors or others, since they do not need to be. Although nurses and midwives are under intense pressure, this may be something that we can distribute, at least The responsibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u82	A respectable president. Thank you for your time. It's very important for me to get this statement at the council, because here we have spoken to several members of the General Assembly. There is a general convergence that what is behind a question. Senator. It seems that she agrees on these priorities. A surgeon has called attention to the Ministry on the importance of nursing and/or midwives receiving permission to prescribe hormonal contraception. His primary reason is that sex - health services could be increased, primarily as evidence. This warrant was determined on the bill for changes in pharmaceutical laws proposed for the 140th and 141th legislation. So it's been in and out of the discussion. In the North countries, nurses and midwives have the authority to prescribe certain medications, although they differ. However, the study of this class is much longer in this country than is in the general North countries, so I'll underline it. paritaprevir Of course, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son is about the need to examine the content of the study and that those groups receive adequate training or preparation to face this potential change. Both indications on the subject - I have even received a tip about sexually transmitted diseases, in which one of its proposals is non-profit hormonal contraceptives until I am 20 years old in Iceland, that is, a direct suggestion. She's on my mind. I think it's something we should look at, so I'm now trying to have some news in this refreshing conversation. But finally, I want to thank you. Congress members for having a share in this discussion and also agree with what this happened. paritaprevir It's Steinunn's Year's Þóra's Árnadóttir about the aid tools. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, the work will be carried out on a full re-examination of the pharmaceutical layer currently in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u83	A respectable president. The Red Cross Family Center was closed at the end of 2016 and sent a message to the Ministry of Health and to the city of Reykjavík on December 19, 2016. It says, by permission of the president: When it comes to family counseling, one of the outstanding measures is the Family Center, which has been able to provide free counsel and help to children and their families during the past few years. Although families in the capital area make it easier to apply its services, they have been open to all families, regardless of their circumstances. Children's manager directs children, parents, and others to this arrangement each week, and this has proved to be invaluable to many families. Children's manager has been informed that the Family Center is going to be laid down. Is this a major concern in the opinion of the office, and it would have a very negative effect on children if this important measures were not available. Hence, an agent challenges all those involved in the management of the decision to reconsider and seek all ways to keep the alternative going. In this regard it may be noted that all decisions that concern children should be guided by a child's choice. Among other things, 3. the children's covenant. Officials are to make sure that families provide the assistance they need in order to ensure the well - being of children. Children's agent, therefore, is particularly challenging the welfare department, the welfare field of Reykjavíkurburg, and other government agencies to support the Family Center. On the Red Cross website, the work of Family Centers was described as follows, with the permission of a president: ▪ Family Centers aim to help and support child families in problems, to form due to communication problems, parenting counselors to parents, divorce and custody, to feel at school, drug and alcohol abuse young people, children who display antisocial behavior and mental difficulties. Service is open to all families and free of charge. The objective of the Family Center is to offer available counselling for families, to strengthen the right handbook within them, and to provide specific guidance for improvement. While they have the strength and the hope to do so on their own, it is possible to prevent a situation from developing in a worse way. So I have to ask a minister why money was not granted to continue working at the Red Cross Family Center in Reykjavík. It has now been closed after a 20 - year job that failed to ensure government support or more of the Ministry. What provisions are available for the 484 families who previously received support, as shown in the 2016 Red Cross Year Report?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u84	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I've been trying to dive into this. The story as it is. A senator pointed to, if I didn't hear you wrong, since the 2016/2017 New Year's Eve. In fact, it's not anything that's happening right now. It was already the word when the person here took his place in the government and in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. I'd just like to start off with the history of the New York Family Center for the Red Cross of Iceland. It was set up in 1997 and worked continuously for about 20 years, or until the beginning of 2017. The central station, which was a family counselling center, especially a family of children, was originally a work assignment at the Red Cross of Iceland, Reykjavíkurburg, the Department of Social Services and the Ministry of Health. The project was designed to coordinate public agencies that the law should deal with if children are in trouble with drug use and difficult communication at parents'homes. These goals were started in close cooperation with elementary school, health care, child care, the NYU service center, and late classes also sought high school and other institutions for service at a Family Center. For several years, the state was interrupted for building a Family Center, but the Ministry of Social Affairs came back to business in 2009. The second year was full responsibility for business in the hands of the Red Cross of Iceland, but the city of Reykjavík and the Ministry of Health gave financial support to Family Center in recent years. At five million dollars, the Department of Ministry built up the business. telefavirenz (U.S.A.) Reykjavíkurburg also came to business during the period, and Iceland's Red Cross paid what was missing. What I've got next about this case is that there was no strength in 2017 and it wasn't a national initiative to close Family Center. The government was prepared to continue the same support for this activity, but the Council of the Red Cross of Iceland decided that there was no basis for the operation to continue and that the service had to be completed. Finally, financial programmes to the next five years must be reminded of the importance of supporting basic services as well as the importance of promoting prevention and early intervention. I must say, this early intervention in behalf of children is extremely important. I'm just telling you, this is one of my main priorities in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, i.e. to develop early intervention in behalf of children. This project is clearly one of them. There we are about to start a job that aims to map in a way that can be taken earlier to more levels and which system change is needed to achieve different organisations and to intervene by different measures. Many of our neighbors have found many practical ways to do so. But what is missing around it, how we build this early intervention, how we get the different categories of subjects; health, education, rural affairs, and so basic schools to work together to form a network for these children so that our welfare systems would take them back. I am convinced that it is extremely important for us to do so. A great many groups of associates provide resources and services to children, tens of them. They provide numerous services and resources for children and children's families. I think that gives me reason to assume that this organization will exist because there is a gap in our welfare system. I think that's even. Because these cases are linked to many department services, including the state level, and for some reason we haven't reached the bridge between them. That's what we're doing. I've got a lot of ambition for her to walk. However, this project has to come to a large number of people because blessed children do not sense it when they need help whether it is about the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the community school, or the Ministry of Social Affairs, for example. [[The president calls.]] I think the inquiry is extremely good, and I tried to answer it as best I could.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u85	A respectable president. I'm naturally asking a minister regardless of who owns the office, so it's clear. [[Up front.]] From the information given to me, the Family Center was put down because no support was given, especially from the government. Others were willing to come back if a greater contribution was made from the government, which later did not occur. Part of the reason may be a change of arrangements to be made. There, civil finance laws went into effect, as this matter was supposed to be more of a minister's custody, i.e. to control the way the funds were handled, instead of being used for special financial support. Maybe that's where the closet was, too. I make the word that work is about to begin and that you are looking for a frame. There was a frame. In these countless comrades, the highest. A minister points to the matter. I agree with the minister's thought that there's the jury in a bit of a crime. In a previous inquiry, I described the exact situation that has been entered on the county board. This is through the Ministry of Health and Justice. I think we need to put our hands together and do this as soon as possible. Clearly, we are not caring for our duties in this category, as are our children's covenants and children's law and child protection, that there is a sharing in the ministry for these clients, who may be remembered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u86	A respectable president. As I said before, I spoke out of my best awareness, according to the information I have on the matter. From the data observed at the time of the year. I'll tell you, I'll just take a closer look at this case on this basis and have things check out as far as possible. A senator came in. When these blessed museum members moved from the General to the council, I was concerned - this organization is giving me an enormously important job, I see it to form in the Ministry of Social Affairs - that this would lead to some loss in the work of these organizations. Now I'm just in the Ministry. I see that this museum was applied to some 470 million in the Department of Social Affairs, which we were assigned to over 180 million. I said to the distribution of these museums that there is a reason to wonder if this third sector doesn't have to be better involved. He is truly part of the welfare system. And I'm gonna say it here, too. Hv. A senator says there was a setting up, about a written project, but I think there was a way out of it. We don't have the frame, I feel that, linking up with all the resources that are being offered in the affairs of children, and then connecting them to the health system, education system, and the local community. That's the setting that needs to be made, and that's what I want to put into practice making. Then there are the many options both in the hands of the government and at the hands of free partners. In this way we can develop a network to catch our children much sooner than we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u87	A respectable president. It was originally this request and the first one in the same inquiry. They were divided for some reason. That is fine, for there are two different matters in a sense. This issue has to do with the Association of Relationsparents and the decision not to give them funding in 2018, so it is the current minister to make that decision. On the Web site of the Rapporteurs, their work is described, with the permission of a president: ▪ The organization's focus is that the presence of society parents to the welfare system needs to be corrected and that the quality of the community needs to meet without cause. The basis for our struggle is that the social group will be visible by improving the public registration, allowing it to be introduced into the Habitat's economic report and to become a researched community group with regard to statistical research and other assessments. If members of society are enrolled as national association parents, the financial and social benefits of these can be investigated and presented as a basis for research on well-being policies and legislation on the interests of society. The service the organization provides is, for example, For the sake of requests, applications and contracts for communications with the government, it is often a relatively complex matter to speak law, it is not at all possible - assist with administrative assistance for government decisions in the social, financial, and social issues and then general counseling in the seminary. From my experience of dealing with lawyers and trying to speak with them in Icelandic, but they listen to law, I certainly feel that there is a need for some kind of service that can help interpret there. As far as this group of subjects is concerned, I wondered why the Association of Associationparents was not funded in 2018 and what options - perhaps interpreted as such - the Minister intends to offer free service and advice to those who once attended the organization's free service.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator also for this inquiry. This cause is important, as it is. A senator was a good background here. In 2018, the Association of Homemates applied for the strength of a body of financial organizations. These funding have been granted for several years, they are given to partners on social projects, just as we discussed in our previous inquiry. Each year dozens of members attend for strength. Recently, 35 companions, a total of 19 million, were strengthened, but, as I said earlier, a scholarship was applied to a figure of 470 million. There are over 300 million different places, and in reality, it shows how productive and important the work is being done in this series of languages, and unfortunately, there were many organizations that could not be strengthened. The amount of money for distribution is limited. Clearly, then, privileges need to be strengthened. A procedure has been made that the Minister's Committee of Staff in the Ministry will assess funding based on premeditation criteria and make proposals for Ministers to strengthen, as per local financial and eco-efficiency guidelines provided by the body of financial bodies at the same time. The application procedure is assessed based on the value and importance of the project, the clearness of aims and the determination of the desired results, the implementation of the level of success based on the financial value of the project. The association of members of society has previously been strengthened by a body of social bodies, but it cannot be concluded that the union organizations that have once gained strength are restored in a year. Not giving sources of financial contributions to social projects in 2018 does not mean that the organization's activities are not important for the NGO group. Again, the difference between applications is 470 million, but what was for distribution was 180 million. You may wonder, " Is this organization to be heard by a body of justice officials? ' Part of the community - care programme, such as in the field of society, is being heard by the Ministry of Justice, but the work of cohesion is actually being heard by the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. They certainly hear specific tasks under the Department of Social Services, such as advice and assistance to debt, social security, financial assistance to the community, and housing, all of which can weigh heavily on this issue. Then they ask why. A member of the council plans to offer free service and counsel with the organization to those who once applied. It can be noted in the case of certain government institutions and rural organizations that offer free service and advice provided by the Association of Relationsparents. For example, it offers a number of specialized advice in the family field. These include custody issues, legal homes, and association, as well as social treatment offered for parents and their children. The localisation agency provides some advice, including cohesor and recipient of cohesion. A credit agent offers free counseling to those who have problems. Public security counselling is available by the government, including the U.S. to those who need to improve as a result of child development. Social services provide community advice on a variety of social issues, such as financial, housing, parenting, divorce issues, including custody and contact issues, adoption issues, etc. Orator, a law student at the University of Iceland, provides a general non-profit legal aid. A respectable president. The core to what I'm saying is that 470 million were applied, that's 179 million. The core of this is that I think it would be good to take up a discussion on the importance of the third sector as part of the service to the citizens of this country, whether in social affairs or under other sectors. I am the opinion, and have always been made since I was in the budget of my time, that the work being done by members of society such as these is extremely important, and it is really a question whether we should not do more in this reality, or whether it is reasonable to place special legislation around the Third sector with special support to members of the community in general, as some of our neighbors do. I'm telling you, this whole organization is extremely important. This is not the exception of any of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u89	A respectable president. This is a bit of an interesting situation with the highest potential. A minister listed various members of this service in some way. But these are most public members, such as. He's a businessman. This is where society parents need assistance with requests and charges to the county. There's no way a businessman can help. I wondered, " What help do I have in dealing with the public?'That would be on both sides of the table. Is there any agent who can do that job, or how does it look? A case I only followed up on the budget board was a scholarship provided by ISI. It's a bit similar, I think. We concluded that the ISI should explain how they did not divide or distribute to the other relationships. The question here is really the same, except now it is the natural minister to answer. Intel, he should explain and reason why they didn't give money to this organization, but I just missed it in the reply of a minister earlier, I didn't hear it clearly. Why wasn't the organization funded? Who replaces it with the list of sponsored organizations? I don't know. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u90	A respectable president. I think it's a good thing that we're going to take a talk about this curator's grant. I want to tell you how I approached this case when I got into the Ministry. First, ads had been sent out and the applications had been sent in. There was already an underage in the Ministry, a group of employees who were reviewing their applications based on the points presented in the advertisements of their time. Projects were emphasized as being temporary, specific projects, etc. It was also emphasized that the projects did not have some form of agreement with the State, whether with the State or with the institutions. At the time of these efforts, a minister suggested that certain projects be strengthened and others not at the same time. This assignment was one of those who wasn't in there, but I think there's good reason to have it there. I have proclaimed that there is good reason to wonder about the criteria for applying to the museum team every year, what we should contribute to, and in what way I don't have the list of the 35 members who were strengthened by me, but I don't know any better than on the social services website, when funded, which organization received grants and which amount. There was a lot of organizations. It was the ADHD organization, it was the Children's Orchestra, an older citizen's organization and other organizations. I think it's all in front of the Department of Health, where it's torn apart. The big thing to my mind is what I came into here earlier, that it seems that there's a lot of harassment on this side of the Third Sector. I think there is a good reason to discuss whether it is the Commission or the legislature, whether or not there is a need for a change in this setting, whether more money is needed. [[The president calls.]] I think it is, and I'll celebrate this discussion any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u91	Mr. President. On July 1, 2015, there was an agreement on reducing the use of plastic bags. It's like this: The Council concludes to hide environmental and resource ministers in order to find ways to reduce plastic sachet use in this country. We choose a way to reach other European countries, where plastic bags have been effectively reduced. A treatment plan will be published by November 1, 2015. Then there was a group, but it wasn't until the beginning of 2016. Then the plan shows up. It begins in July 2016, a year after the proposal was agreed, in which figures were to be taken together from the Fractal Fund for the use of disposable plastic bags in Iceland. Then, if we look at it, we'll do it before 2016-2018. There's a lot to look at and gather information. It's fine and it's important to keep them okay. However, in November 2016, a bill was to be set up for the change in processing fees in a single-use plastic bag, which was to be submitted at the General Assembly. Then the plan will end with another bill to come 2018, a bill to a law that says it will be forbidden to deliver a load bag without charge and that the fee will be visible on a boxing note. The date is 1 January 2019. I think it's a little weak. Perhaps we, standing up to the council arrangement at the time, should have been more determined that plastic bags should be banned in our country. Because that's what needs to be done. The plan should have ended that we brought in a law against plastic bags use in Iceland. This has been done in many lands, with good results. We know that plastic wrappings, such as plastic bags, have harmful effects on the environment. Of course we can't ban plastic because it's all over. But we can take certain steps. An easy, good step would be to ban the use of plastic bags, and shopping would keep them out of the way that plastic bags would be passed to their customers, not on payment. That's where I hope we're headed. But I'm asking the highest. Environment and Resource Minister: What is the situation of the projects of the programme for 2016-2018? [[The president calls.]] And when is it planned to ban the use of plastic bags in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u92	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for the inquiry. I think it's very important to discuss plastic pollution and measures against it here at the council and celebrate this discussion. I'm going to go through the position of the projects defined in the Ministry's Action Programme to reduce the use of plastic bags from 2016 to 2018. For example, in the first place there has been approved a legislation on the change in processing fees for switching to to tolls for details on the use of a single-use plastic sachet in this country. In 2017, 156 tons of groceries were transferred to this special toll party. The statistics for the national production of plastic groceries are not available, but I understand that relatively small amounts of plastic bags are produced in Iceland, at least during the past year. Of course, it is important to get that statistical information so that further work can be built on it. Second, in September 2016, the Association of Trade and Service and the Ministry's agreement to reduce the use of plastic bags was signed. By the EEA letter and the Association of Trade and Service of December 13, 2017, the parties recommend that the contract be canceled. The plan of action assumed that the Organization of Business and Service, the EEA and the store, worked closely in cooperation with that project and that funding would then be used for the sale of plastic bags. The letter shows that the work did not work together as expected, without any further explanation. This year, however, many shops have been done, and many stores have taken up the project, which, of course, is important. Third, if we review the results of this contract, while the people were working together on this matter, the EEA has presented the project, obtained information on different types of bags, and prepared information and educational material. The Agency has been urging me to reduce the use of disposable plastics, to participate in the festival of the sea, to a conference and to a show in the fall of 2017 on waste prevention and on the work, which I expect to do. Every member of the Parliament will remember and be organized by a free organization. The poker Fund set out a press campaign last spring, which promised to take up a multi-use campaign. Business and service organization have pressured shopping to share in this work. Fourth, the EEA gave proposals for the store's minimum amount of price per bag. It is considered that the tax should not be restricted to a single use plastic bag, but to a full bag, whatever its components are. It is aimed at reducing general waste and single-use use according to the Ministry's waste prevention policies against waste management. However, this has not been achieved, since cooperation with shops on that point could not be achieved. That is why there was really no basis for it. Fifth, shops were encouraged to charge all carrier bags and to have solutions other than the use of a single vehicle bag to return the product home. This has been done, and the store has started these measures. That campaign was introduced in the spring of 2017. Six, a comparison of the environmental impact of plastic bags, multi-use bags, and biodegradable bags was to be started by the EEA but could not be funded for this project. seventh, the European Union was aimed at informing the EEA about the steps taken to secure waste disposal, ensuring that citizens have access to services in this field as well as that information on solutions to waste management do not include the use of plastic bags. This information has not yet been received, but the strategy itself is not completed, it includes the year of the year. Then my review of the self-reflecting plan is complete. A lot of things have worked out pretty well. However, the decision to cancel this contract is disappointing because not all jobs were done. I'm just being honest about that. The plastic pollution project will continue anyway. I will answer the second question below.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u93	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir "Oddný New G. Harðardóttir follows the plastic bag case, which has been discussed several times at the General Assembly. It is very important that we take certain steps. They have to be big when it comes to plastic. Thanks to the highest, too. Minister for going through what has been done. But what I want to say is that we have to do so much, much more when it comes to plastic. Of course, these disposable plastic bags are huge cases that we have to deal with, but we have to take this in a larger context, think of all the other disposable plastics that enter our home, and all the microsphere. I'd like to get the top of it. Minister and encourage those things. In fact, I heard his answer that he has it all at his job, but this is a point that will not be mentioned enough. There I believe it is important that we not only look at ourselves as individuals and consumers as individuals thinking about how we can reduce the plastic we take home, that must also lay responsibility on those who sell us the plastic wrappings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u94	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the leader. Harðardóttir For bringing up this important matter, a daughter of mine. The plastic is all around, everywhere, and in everything. We've taken small steps, and we've had some success. I think the biggest change now is that we're each starting to think out of our own lives. That's how we get the most results. We need to take responsibility ourselves. There's one thing I've been wondering about in this topic. People are using much more of their reused shopping bags, but in many homes, they are using sticks. How much pollution does that cause? We need to think about it. We must not overstep in some other direction. On the contrary, I don't want to belittle those subjects about the plastic bags. But it's good to hear from a minister that information is being collected. But we need to start taking advantage of them and take seriously the steps and go further.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u95	A respectable president. There has been a global sense of awareness regarding plastic, even in this country. For example, the Company of Stykishole has taken the lead in preventing the use of plastic bags. It's been going well. In other words, plastic bags can be banned. When it comes to applying the agreed resolution - the founder of that proposal, in fact, was a member of the Union, Margrét Gauja Magnúsdóttir - may well be the answer to the highest degree. A minister with a word I cut off in his language: I think we need to take much more drastic measures to ban the use of plastic bags on national level and say that the time for consultation and conversation is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u96	A respectable president. In the past, for example. No gasolined lead. The so - called CCs were also forbidden. NASA has recently analyzed that it would have even been uninhabitable on earth, at least outside, as early as 260 C.E., if that action had not been taken. The plastic bag may not have the same dangerous category, but it accumulates rapidly rather than slowly, so it is definitely a matter that we need to handle. I would like to expand the question and ask about dressings for food and stuff, especially if it couldn't be kept in such a way that all packaging is marked as "How to recycle them." It is often very indistinguishable in which barrels I should place this part and this part. That it would just be clear on the package that it would fit into that barrel, color coded, or something. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u97	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for answers and what. Parliamentaries to participate in the discussion. Light plastic bags are usually used only once, and it may take 100 years for them to be destroyed in the natural world, often in the form of tiny plastic particles that can be harmful. Plastrus in the sea may also have a substantial cost of deforestation when plastic is mixed with fishing tools, etc. Simple measures such as banning plastic bags, even if only the plastic bags that are right above the table or at the grocery store box, can have a significant impact on the environment for a long time. Any plastic bag that would blow through the wind can begin with something terrible that we could have prevented if we had acted in time. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister is now planning to bring up a new plan for the future where these matters are addressed. We in Iceland must be able to handle these issues, as have other countries and cities. It seems to me that motivation isn't enough. It's fine to gather information, but I think the lawgiver needs to step in there because this is a serious, big, serious matter. We need to start taking big steps here at home in this case. Here we're just talking about a plastic bag, but we can take all the plastic wrappings we see every day. How much plastic do we put in that barrel that's just a package, and how many thousand tons of oil are going to make this package? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-05-33.u98	A respectable president. I want to make it very clear that I am stressing that plastic pollution is a big and serious problem that Iceland and I need to take more of our time. I agree with all members of the council here on that matter. However, I would like to approach this matter as a whole, and I'll agree with it. Harðardóttir It may have been that we've been watching too much of a certain point. I think we should approach the project based on the quantity and nature of consumption. The plastic bags are not necessarily the biggest project, they have plastics in general. However, they are very visible and touch our daily lives. Therefore, it is important to engage in visible activities when it is due. I've started work at the Ministry taking in knowledge at home and abroad that has to do with research, statistics and plastic monitoring and plastic pollution. Whether it is ban or induced or lazy, some kind of tax or remuneration that has given success in some of our neighboring countries, such as Denmark and Ireland, what government measures can be taken? Then there is presentation and instruction, although I agree that we have to go beyond it, it is also an important part of this. Then plastics must be removed from our environment, which is a common project for all of us. I'd like to work on a summary of this. I know that people are getting tired of a summary, but there is a need to approach this whole thing, not just from one type of plastic, but from plastic in general and based on a comprehensive plan for administration, research and monitoring, as well as for the presentation and training and cleaning of plastic. I expect it will appear this year. I feel that in this room there are warm streams streaming about this work. I look forward to cooperating with all of you in the future.
