ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u1	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I understand that she's having a bad time of not being able to associate with VG's government. I think it might be a bit fun to be with a VG in the government. But I kind of want to go back to VG. I'm just having a hard time understanding this completely. They also say in their course, by permission of a president: It is a temporary arrangement for allowing these temporary arrangements, quite clearly - ◯ And it must be partly confined to the development and fishing practices, and, on the other hand, in part, to the borders of the country and rural areas, to be offered a specific way for distribution. During the reassignment, the State grants permission to make the nation's ownership clear, that the message is unsatisfactory, and the price of fishing is paid. [[The president calls.]] I think it's like reading our suggestions that I mentioned earlier. I know it's very unfair to ask the senator to interpret words and thoughts from the left green. But understand what. A senator of this better than I do?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u2	Mr. President. No, I don't understand. But, hey. Senators of the left green have to explain, of course. What I'm so surprised about is how eager supporters are. Senators of the left green are on this bill. I've been in the government and I know we need to compromise. We had a compromise with the fishing system, but then we could say, "We like it better this way, but we choose the next best way. Because there was a deal. But I haven't heard it in speeches or in the media since then. Senators. This may be the time for the discussion, since it is far from finished in this cycle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u3	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u4	Three letters have been sent by the travel, industrial, and innovation secretary where you request an invitation to give written answers to the inquiries on the deck. 360, about the cost of a government fund at the Bokka plant, from Birgir, the son of Þórarinsson, to a threshing floor. 366, on social security, from Willum Þór Þórsson, and on a deck. 374, on social security, from Tryggvadóttir Trygvedod.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u5	To answer these questions, Prime Minister, marine and agricultural minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister, education and cultural minister, and environmental and resource ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u6	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister has been unattainable in promising his own work. She has said that it was raising money to university about 5% next year and that the university will achieve an OECD average 2020. The matter has been raised by one general after another in the financial debate. What a joy it would be if this were true, but both are wrong! Funds make it clear that by 2019 there are 705 million or 1.6% more than pay and prices. In 2020, 463 million, or 1,168 million, will be expected for the next two years. So it is not raising the college level by 5% next year, except by using some accounting gymnasium, and we will not reach the average OECD in 2020. To achieve that goal, the cost would have to be increased by 3 billion per year to the university. The budget of 2019,2023 assumes a total of 2.7 billion for the next five years. We'd have to multiply that number to reach the average of the northern countries. So the government is not going to fulfill the promise that colleges will reach the average OECD or the Northern states of the season. According to our understanding and calculations, the minister intends to aim on the average OECD as it was in 2014. That's why I'm asking the highest. Education minister if she is deliberately wrong and what explanation she gives for misleading speech. I'm going to the top. A minister may reach this goal by other means, such as by reducing the number of students?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his interest at the university and for the gym I'd like to call it how he figures it out. So that's how we have a working team at the Ministry of Education and Culture, and we're working on these numbers, and I don't have the same numbers as that. Senator. We aim to reach the OECD average in 2020. We have numbers that indicate that we are getting closer to that government because this government is putting in enormous investments at the university, as it was long ago. Hv. Surely a senator must be pleased to know that we are talking about billions of growth. How is it that the presidents of this land are very happy with the growth taking place? Is it really that way? A senator is in such a political state that he cannot even see that he is doing a good day's work on the university? I think what we see very positive and don't really understand such politics, that men can't look forward to the facts we have. It's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u8	Mr. President. Yeah, no wonder I'm interested in college, like any senator in this room. There has been little more discussion than the importance of our schools when it comes to preparing for a changed future. I'm the highest. Minister to provide data. You see, saying things is not enough to make people believe them. You see, only this year is 3,143 million missing. K. to achieve a mean of each student's expenses per year if all is taken into consideration, economy and number of students. I also reiterate that the chairman of the legal committee has informed us about this group of work, saying that it is the best way to achieve this goal. I just call them for bills so we can see this in black and white, and I reiterate the question: Is it possible to get it by reducing the number of students?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u9	A respectable president. What is to be considered is to make major improvements at the university. That's what this government has been doing. The increase from year to year is 5.2% and was more than 5% in the previous year, so the foundation has increased substantially. I know it may be a pity for the chairman of the United States that this is not happening on his watch. I get it. On the other hand, working this group is doing quite well. I'm getting this on finals hopefully over the next few days, and I'm really willing to share it with a Senate. I would like to stress that there is certainly no way to reduce the number of students in order to achieve this goal. It's off and on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u10	Mr. President. In a report on the future of Icelandic money policy, a group of workers who made the report a fundamental stand, as said, that housing prices are not to be kept in the Säldla Bank's inflation target and that management is not to be used against real estate prices. This position is well supported in the report, including Based on the evidence that in recent years, the indexing point's real estate teams have increased by 15◯20%, but at the same time, it has been found to be 3◯5% inexhausted products. They say that it is a matter of great doubt that such a rise in one class, as it is said, i.e. A house that is seen may be considered a real inflation. For these reasons and, indeed, more fully understood in this report, which we now had an opportunity to discuss in detail some time ago, the task force makes that there is a suggestion, which is numbered somewhere that I can't find here, somewhere in the range of 41.76 in these complex proposals, that the housing team will not be calculated at the time of the market, and implementing the Secret Bank's policy on money issues. Has the highest. A minister's position on this proposal is developed? And does a minister think that a team that can't be considered real inflation has a point in the index value of real estate rates? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u11	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It's interesting, actually, when I listened to it, I realized it. A senator, that this particular point did not come up very much in the discussions we had during the days on the report on the future money policy. So I'm glad we have the opportunity to discuss this proposal here. The Commission concludes that if I know the right thing to do is to take the real estate team out of the index, and it can be said that the criticism of this is based on two lines of evidence, if I know the right thing, the general view that housing is long-term investment which does not belong in a routine measurement of consumers that measures short-term consumption in society; however, the committee also makes quite a comment on how the joint's calculations are being worked and that it is done in a different way in this country than in other places where the housing is in the consumers. Sweden is referred to as a controlled example in a report by the Committee. What I've done, as it turns out, in my case here in my conversations during the days, is that I've started a team of work to process all the proposals of the Committee. On the one hand, the project is to negotiate a new Act on Iceland's Federal Bank and there take in any suggestions directly involved. Although this team does not qualify for this particular work, it is also with this group of people. I expect his findings to be available in February. Then we will have a complete vision of what will be done in these materials. Hv. A senator is asking about my position. I'm just gonna be honest with myself that I've wanted to get the objections because I think it's right that we're considering them to think about it, but I thought the evidence of the committee was important. I think they're calling for us to give this thought - provoking opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister responds and uses this opportunity to encourage the highest power. Minister to impress on this subject. I'd like to express my conviction that the mortgage is not at all in the index, and by all means it doesn't belong there, when this group has been arguing that it's not a personal inflation but a sign of some kind of improvement in price. I thank the Minister for taking part in the work being done on review of the Council Bank Act. The Government Constitution presents a bill as a legal adjustment to the law of No. 36/2001, about Iceland's Penitentiary. It may not be wasting the paper, for it is said only that there are changes. I'm going to ask the highest. Ministers to which goals have been set for that work and what changes are best expected in that bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u13	Mr. President. This work aims to follow the findings of the Committee, including the cooperation between UNEP and UNI banks in part or in part. We watch it as a task to be a unit of unity, a unit of the two institutions, and that means a change in governance on the Secret Bank. This means increasing the vice president of the bank to monitor various factors, since financial and financial stability will become more important in the work of the National Bank. In turn, it is a natural state. In his previous inquiry, I believe that we have an opportunity to discuss it at the council, because the Secret Bank has taught other viewpoints when it comes to the creation of the consumer science and believes that this is such a major part of the public spending of the people of the country that it is appropriate to recommend it in some way. But the committee, as I said earlier, finds a completely different conclusion. The task force on this project, reviewing the law on the Federal Bank, also implementing other projects, reviewing the UN Convention and the State's Penitentiary and any other. [[The president calls.]] So I expect us to have an opportunity to discuss this at the council after a New Year's Eve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u14	V.E.G. President. Last week, the council supplied budget 2019 to 3rd. During that conversation with the roll call, the administrative body denied the poorest people in Iceland three times before the President's bell twice. It is clear that the poorest people in Iceland still have to wait for justice to be offered by Katrín's Jakobsdóttir and her government. By permission of the President, in the published resolution from the Constitution of the 22nd November advertising of the United States, U.S.A. ▪ The European Commission considers the release of a second discussion of the budget bill as a serious betrayal of promises. At the same time, the government, according to the good consultation of the government, is constantly taking pride in itself. The government chose to meet this group with a bat and a yellow root weapon, a yellow root that involves men getting a pair of men, but a bat that makes a microchips undergo an evaluation before it is basically ready for themselves. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether she plans to use her influence now between the 2nd and 3rd. that the benefits made through the Correspondence Coalition, i.e. these 4 billion who use proben, that these fine people who struggle with poverty every day, will not be allowed to wait for justice for a while, but will receive this 4 billion benefits even now during the New Year's season.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u15	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Sæmundsson would like to discuss justice here at General's sales, because I feel it's time to discuss what we've been doing, not only in the budgets that are still being discussed in the General Assembly but also in the last budget. Hv. A senator here specifically mentions the status of a invalid. I agree with what. A senator says it is one of the most vulnerable groups in the community. That is why the government today has made contributions. If there's a law here that they're going to look like 2nd. contributions to this group have increased by 9 billion in two of the budgets established by this government. That's important. There is a significant increase in the most vulnerable community, apart from the changes presented here on the tax system, and I have studied several times in this ponta, whether it is an increase in child improvement to the low income of children's families or an increase in personality discount over the consumer index that benefits the most efficient groups. This government is serious, for financial laws should specifically address income - bearing groups. This government is serious about building social infrastructure here, and it really makes a difference to a donor in disability. That is why we see this great increase, 9 billion in twice the budget of 2nd. ... abundant. I don't like it when it happens. A senator here speaks of bats dealing with this vulnerable group. Thus, I have not considered the group acting under the leadership of the social and equal minister who represents both the majority and the smaller parts. I think it's the common objective of all of those sitting in that group of them to increase their ministries to society. On the basis of data from the Silesia Community, Iceland stands alone when it comes to European countries involved with disabled persons in the labour market. Do we want to change that? I think that's what everybody in this group wants to change. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need to find wise ways and not drive sick people into a job market against their will. That's not what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u16	V.E.G. President. Although it's dangerous, I can honestly relate that the Central Party is planning to offer suggestions that will improve the development of disability. But that's not what we're talking about right now. We are discussing whether a further compensation will be paid to this group who struggle with poverty every day, as it is said, at the spring months but may as well be drawn up after 2019 C.E. I'm quite aware of these 9 billion people as the highest. The prime minister speaks of, but this is not enough when a certain group has been praised, so badly, that they cannot stand waiting. Like I said, there's money. It may be interesting, too, that in the financial bill of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, there is very little in reference to tax returns. I remember the time in 2013,2016, when a lot of talk was said about the government that was then taking away income, but there is very little talk about improving taxes on this financial bill. [[The president calls.]] Maybe that's a way to keep your promise, topmost. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u17	Mr. President. Even though it is. A senator goes through a wide range and goes from one to the next, I'll try to answer him. The 4 billion proposed in the budget were earmarked system changes in behalf of micro-energy donors. I would have liked to see that work done. In a Congressary registry, the primary points were expected on that subject in October. They're not here yet, unfortunately, but I hope, of course, that they come as soon as possible. Hv. A senator then starts talking about tax returns, which is, of course, expected in the budget bill. Like what? At the time of my government, a senator accepted a bill in the spring months to improve his tax returns, and we expect another such bill from the highest level. Secretary of finance to work on the exact tax returns, hopefully this year's before the end of the year. I expect that. A senator will be on the boat with us to improve tax returns, for that is certainly expected, and we are not to interfere with the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u18	Mr. President. I want to read from the law about the rights of the child which has been legalized in Iceland. In the first century C.E., God's Word, the Bible, says: "The whole world is lying in the power of the wicked ▪ What is best for a child must always be put in place when public or private social institutions, courts, governments, or legislators take steps that concern children. I'd like to direct them to the children of this country that you have the right to be protected by the grown people, that the adults are concerned about your rights. I'm going to read this article again to direct it to the authorities in this country, to this legislature, to the Ministers and to others in charge of a law that we've approved, including these laws. The text, by permission of the president, says: ▪ What is best for a child must always be put in place when public or private social institutions, courts, governments, or legislators take steps that concern children. 2 mg. this same article, Article 3. in the law of rights of children under the United Nations Convention, says, by permission of presidents: ▪ In view of the rights and duties of parents or lawyers, or others responsible for the law of children, Member States commit themselves to ensure the protection and care required by their children, and should be made up of all necessary legal and administrative arrangements. We adults who have taken us in this position, whether it is a lawgiver or a minister or a principal, a director or a legal guardian - parents who have greatly advanced. But the rest of us who have this obligation under law are to protect children. What we saw on TV yesterday - and we know so much about harassment in the schools of our country. First, the school directors are to step in and protect the child. What I want to ask the highest. The Ministry of Education for Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddótir is: What's on the program, the Ministry of Education, about entering and protecting children from harassment?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. This is one of these matters that we should discuss here at the Generals and that the whole community is extremely important. Of course, all of us know that harassment is the worst that children and adults face, and this is just so that harassment is not meant to last. We're all supposed to say no to harassment all the time. I want to tell you what. A senator on the fact that we're working on a new educational and cultural policy at the Ministry of Education and Education and that it works for both the elementary school and the high school levels. In the past, they have served solely for high school. The advice is relatively new, but its role is to give support to school society because of harassment. If school is having difficulty in preventing harassment or is having difficulty working out these matters, it can be consulted, but its role is first general counseling, secondly counseling, and thirdly information giving. Students, parents, and employees of elementary and high school can look for its help if they are unable to work out adequate solutions for harassment. Of course, we're proud of the National Institute of Education and Culture, but it's being carried out at the Institute of Education and Culture. We must always be vigilant with regard to this class and how these matters are developing. I can assure you what. A senator says that we are dealing with these matters and will look to the Preliminaries in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u20	Mr. President. That's good to know. I invited this boy's mother for lunch at the council. I often do that when things come up in the community. It is good that we speak directly to the people who face difficult situations. The boy's mother has mentioned that the school has handled the situation well and is responding, but this may have been a problem with more prevention. Just what a minister is saying, I suspect the boy's mother will be pleased to hear it because when I asked her what she would like to see, she even mentioned it. that there would have to be more education at the beginning of the school year and that there could be more information about how to deal with harassment and that parents, all school directors, and children are also informed about these circumstances. But until we get better policy, more education, and so on, we have children who are going through this right now. I agree that there are school directors who have to step in there first. Just at the end, if the school directors have a problem with this and maybe they don't see the solutions, we're the highest. The minister of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, is not on the same team, agreeing that there is a need for immediate action? We need to listen and respond immediately to the circumstances in which we are in the area and give help that we can provide.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u21	A respectable president. I can assure you what. The senator that we are very much alike in this regard. These matters are intended to be addressed if your child's school community, or school school, and/or guardians feel that this is not a solution to the child's affairs. That's when the preliminaries come in. I think growing it will be a great step to make it even more progressive. The celebration was set up in 2016, if I recall correctly, and now we're uplifting even further and strengthening the entire area around it. But I think it's very important that we all here, whether we're parents or whatever it is, are very aware of these matters and send a proper message to our children, that we don't suffer harassment. This is how prevention starts in my first and last place in the children's homes. Once again, I can assure the senator that we are truly on the same team as this. We don't suffer harassment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u22	Mr. President. Former financial minister and sea chief minister for the then minister of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, Indriði H. Þorláksson, writes an article in the reactor today. That includes, by permission of the President, the hunting bill: The bill's signature indicates that the guardians have the stakeholders' stakeholders' interests, at least directly, direct pen when switching the slide. It agrees with most of the baloneys that have characterized the propaganda of counterfeiters from the beginning. It is a habit that a report with such a controversial and important matter should be made without logic, statements that will never take place except in the propaganda of those who want to remain on the side of the nation. Governments are to protect the interests of the public, not become the mouthpiece of the owners of the fishing industry. And go ahead, with President's permission: THE bill's floral shape echoes many of its songs from the teary song. Fishing reduces investment in the fishing route, reduces technical progress, compromises competitiveness, settles the land area, etc. These standards have a common place in the field of opportunity, in support of the painter's interests, are easy to believe, and throw dust into the eyes of those who do not have a basis or are able to look at them but are not supported by any physical or theoretical logic. Mr. President. It's at the top. The prime minister and director of the left green under these and other viewpoints mentioned in this article? If the highest. The prime minister does not fully agree with them. It would be helpful to know what they think is wrong and why it is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and I agree with what is stated at the end of the article he quotes, that if the bill, if the law becomes a law, can create the basis for a objective discussion about that question instead of karap about technical cocking shit as it has been. I can agree with that statement with the writer of the article. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson quotes. The bill we have here for fishing costs is about us agreeing that the project should provide a natural share of its resources to the nation. There we are quoting a 33% currency rate. When we looked at this system ten years ago and mentioned this bill, it would have been legal ten years ago, the project would have been returning at least. Half a billion more in government funds than it did during that period. However, this has been a significant reaction during this period, to get this out, and to be accepted. I believe this has been accepted, and what is being done with this bill is to move the cover near in time. I have to say, I've wondered about the language that has been here, that it really isn't the right time to do it right now. When is the time to bring in the pressures of hunting costs in time? Is it not reasonable that we produce the actual data we have? Also, we are confirming this currency rate while increasing the discount to smaller productions, which means that the largest productions pay more than half as much. This is another view that we have repeatedly discussed in this room and is confirmed by this bill. I don't agree that this bill is in any way a bad job. It's finally trying to achieve a self-sustaining policy system on the pressures of hunting fees, where there's a methodology that I think is more easily understood and beneficial. Of course, we can talk all the time about the price of fishing, but I quote what I said here: If it had been in the law for the past ten years, the fishing fee would have paid half a billion more. [[The president calls.]] I'd have found it interesting to see from what I saw. A senator and his party when he was in a government change that would have turned more into this spirit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u24	Mr. President. I'm thinking about continuing to quote this fine article and its conclusion, with the permission of a president: It is unacceptable that the nation will be paid only for the use of its resources, almost enough charity to pay the cost of not being destroyed by the resource, but by means of practical means. At the return of the bill, many viewed this point as a service to the interests of counterfeiters, whose hope was to be corrected in the council. With the forward opinion of a professional employer, it is clear that she has not learned anything from her scandalism. In our case, we are struck blindly by the fact that the role of the Generalis is not to protect public interest but to take care of the business of special interests. Mr. President. I am convinced that in the 100 - year history of the sovereigns, several political parties were shot with such a strong and grammatical argument of their own expert and of the highest class. Prime Minister. Tells you the highest. Does not the prime minister give reason to turn aside from this course and postpone the matter, thinking it a little bit more? [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u25	Mr. President. I am convinced that any political movement in the 100 - year history of the sovereignty has gone on as much scandalous as a pack of whales. A senator who owned a marine economist and agricultural minister for 11 months who did not exactly do anything to alter the fishing system or the fishing system while my category has not only adopted and started the resource use, the fishing costs based on resource resources of 2012. That methodology is confirmed here by this bill. My company came on a beach fishing system at the time, while a pack of whales. A senator and his manager have been content to speak highly of other categories rather than perform very little. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[For example, consider: Should not questions be answered?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u26	A respectable president. I don't suppose there's a way of changing ministers, so I'll just keep going. In the news last night, we saw, I think there was a meeting at Station 2, where he described the position of that article. In fact, this inquiry might also have been posed to the environmental minister because it is also an important environmental issue. What I want to ask the highest. A minister to see if the government has discussed and had some action taken, some support to fur farmers because of the serious situation that exists in that sector. Also, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether or not to work on some special solutions involving sheep farmers and whether they can be expected in the days ahead. The reason I'm asking about this is, of course, that the situation is serious, but serious in these two articles. When it comes to the environment, it is apparent that in the production of fur feed, raw materials are used first of all by very high quality, but are also raw materials that would otherwise have had to grow or burn in some way. If I remember correctly, it is a very limited technique to burn so much of the raw materials used for feeding and, therefore, a great amount of environment is that it can be used for the production of valuables as it is being done, so I don't talk about all the knowledge lost by this article. So I ask the highest. Minister: Any decision has been made to deal with the situation, and what will be the response?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u27	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. First about fur farmers. - If an active platoon president of the left green ceases to disturb the leader is likely to hear what I'm offering. - There is no solution yet for fur farmers in their difficult situation. Now, the matter is discussed in the Based Agency to see if farmers can be met, as they did recently have ideas. The board is exactly where financial resources within the Department of Agriculture or the Department of Agriculture are not available to meet the highest requests, which may include. were introduced by this fur farmer in the news yesterday. If I remember correctly, he would say 300 million. K. to these 18 hairy animals, who actually receive food from two feeding stations, one in the north and in the south. And it is true that the environmental factor involved in this waste being used there is certainly the point of which we are specifically involved. For sheep farmers, because these are two big cases that I have to frame in two minutes, we still have agreements against sheep farmers. They've done quite well according to my latest information. There's not a lot of disagreement between people, but it apparently takes longer than I wished for a job to tie in the loose ends of government contracts and farmers on the other hand. I expect this week to learn more about the situation and to hope that we will have a positive result in a reexamination of the sheep's agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u28	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for his answers, pretty clear, even. It is a pleasure to hear that there is some work going on within the Based on this matter, so it is reasonable to ask the secretary of the following question whether he is aware that the results will be obtained in the next few days of the work being carried out within a living agency. I'd also like to ask a minister if it can be expected, whether it's from his office or from any other source, that some money will come in between discussions about the budget bill, which will be specifically granted to take care of the situation in the sector. Whether the money comes from the Minister, the Department of Agriculture, or any other agency, it has probably been discussed in the government. Second, I also ask, " Is there any money that is expected to enter the sheepfold now in the budget between discussions? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u29	A respectable president. The case is, as I could before, in the development of the Ministerial Committee, has been that for some time, and we've been discussing possible solutions there. I don't have any accurate information on the construction facility situation. We're working on it, three ministers. That's not come to a conclusion. I expect there to be a suggestion for some sort of action between the 2nd and 3rd. The budget and the words have been directed to the budget committee to expect some proposal in that subject. How exactly that ends, at this point, I cannot reveal anything at all. Whether new funds enter the sheep's contract is now between 2 and 3. ... awrong.: No, it's not expected. In all these discussions, it is assumed that in terms of the revisions of a sheep's contract or a cattle contract, a gardening agreement, the budget that was negotiated in the livestock agreements that went into effect less than two years ago is the box that debates took place within this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u30	Mr. President. Airship is systematicly important to the national economy. Economic products of the Icelandic international airlines are important nationally important, economic stability and flight security. Our service is our largest industry, and it is less than 42% of the country's export price. Thus, the tourism program has everything under good and safe transports, The Icelandic international airlines Wow and Ictellands have dealt with business problems during the year as a result of increased competition, as well as high levels of oil prices that have gone up for a while, up to 50%. In July of that month, Illelands issued a warning that aroused the fierce response of the market. You know, stocks in the company dropped a lot, and the director of the company said he was dead. At the beginning of October, the Prima airline was bankrupt. The Society had a planned flight to and from the country and was owned by Iceland. Many individuals and businesses were damaged by the lack of the association. The success of the Wow airline into the 2011 Icelandic international air market was an important factor for the economy. The number of tourists has increased substantially, and those who arrive in the country mainly use machines from Icelanda and Wow. The news coverage of the Wow airline was long positive, and the company was growing very much. Then, in 2017, a reversal takes place. No financial data were published until mid-July 2018 and published their annual accounts very late. Then, in August, news of loss and the organization's going to a bond post came up. In connection with the stock market, it was found that the Wow's financial share would have been dropped to 4.5% in July. In turn, the commitment commission was not enough. It was evident that the Wow had come up against the wall and had no free funds to live up to its commitments. For this reason, Icellands are then consulted for the company's purchase. If the Society had gone out of business at the time, it would have had a powerful effect. About 1,000 people work for the company and take about 37% of all passengers who come to the country through the Chefjordur Airport. The resulting effect would be substantial. The parallel effect of this case has been great. The Secret Bank's Department of Money Policy issued that one of the reasons for the more significant weaknesses of the crown recently was uncertain of the Waw funding. As we have seen, Illelands have now bought Wow, but warnings about the purchases have not been removed. A stock conference has to agree with the purchase, but within a few days it has been announced to him. At lunchtime, it was reported that it was unlikely that the warnings would be fulfilled before the meeting, and this is a concern. Mr. President. Clearly, the situation of the Icelandic international airlines is difficult. A boarding room monitors the management of airlines and operates under the 2012 Air Action and Air Management Regulation in the EEA. The protocol is about accessing documents and then stresses the impact on airline passengers, that they can get reimbursed, and that planes are all right. However, the rules are not about national security or national emancipation. The maintenance room should conduct a regular assessment of the financial status of the pilots. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: What was the surveillance of a walking agency with the Wow airline? How could that be the case with the Society? Tells you the highest. Minister that the Grouping Agency as a surveillance officer has the human resources and expertise needed to conduct so systematicly important supervision? The director of a U.S. Agency has said that experienced men control the international airlines. From the end of August, their words fell. ... thepresident of Iccelands has resigned, the airline Primera went bankrupt, and the Wow airline's life span depends on a few days. Tells you the highest. A minister normal for a patrol officer, such as the Grouping Room, to make such a statement? Does it not make sense for a minister to look at national security and national ecstatic when considering the financial superiors of international fliers? And finally, I want to ask the highest. Minister: Implicit action program on the part of the Ministry if the results of Icelanda stock Summits indicate that the Society does not consider buying the airline Wow admirable option?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u31	A respectable president. It is known that there have been difficulties in flying in this country as well as elsewhere. Some international airlines have lost their way, and there is uncertainty about the status of others. The Icelandic international airlines Iccelanders and Weow air are internationally important and are on the road to and from the country. It is important that air travel is stable, since, as observed by the advocates of the saying, tourism is a key support of the economy and has much to do with air transport. While expectations have been on the unions, the matter is, of course, in their hands, including is waiting for the results of the Contestance Commission on the possible mergement of their comrades, Icelandas and Wowair. Hv. A senator originally sent me some questions that I would try to keep myself from answering. Actually, he added something that I might be able to come on into my final answer. Regarding the surveillance role of a P.A., this involves a wide variety of factors that affect most of the activities of the Agency. The protocol and the implementation of the surveillance programme are mainly based on a European legislation as well as the main factors involved in monitoring the use of fliers meet the requirements for air management safety, i.e. On maintenance, training, and other flight factors. After the main theme, the Grouping Agency has forced access to ensure a satisfactory response to its comments, e.g. by revocation or limitation of job vacancies or rights, business requests and day-to-day fines or other repairs. Few jobs depend on public licences and surveillance as well as on the flying industry. A pilot's license is to create conditions for financial ability, property, and so forth. In accordance with the Regulation, the European Commission must monitor the financial situation of the Icelandic airline and consists of routine monitoring of the annual data-registered data, such as a written annual bill and a waste management plan. If available, more frequent monitoring or more detailed data may be required and where necessary. In the same way, the Transporter's monitoring of a technical aircraft management is being carried out on the conditions that a pilot needs to meet. Similar rules apply to air quality requirements and maintenance of sustained air transport and air-sustaining production products, parts and equipment as well as to the agreement for maintenance centres and staff in this area. The Agency will perform a number of follow-up measures on the basis of these regulations, such as the reviews. If available, more frequent monitoring or operating restrictions, e.g. by staging machines or limiting business permits. In accordance with international importance, monitoring by a maintenance room with pilots is risky. This means that the Agency's monitoring programme takes into account the position of the surveillance provider and is increased when needed and reduced when authorised by the competent authority shows that management is stable and the risk is lower. On the basis of the information provided by the Agency that if the company is not sustainable, it is relevant to the flying permit published on the basis of this Regulation, No. 48/2012, the common rules of air management and air service within the European Economic Area. The pilot permit is fixed to specific conditions, to form financial ability, possession, etc. If a pilot's survival results in financial deterioration, it may require careful monitoring on the side of a United States Association. If such a check indicates the need for action, the Agency can cancel the flight control permit or temporarily issue a flight driver's license while the permit holder reorganizes its management. A boarding centre is also responsible for a routine review of the enterprise's financial situation and requesting detailed data on its status. It was also asked what steps the Agency can take if there is a warrant. The answer to that question is that there can be a greater set of conditions for data clearance, for their reviews, and for a limited work permit, or even for canceling the license. Regarding the question, which was then No. 4, about the actions programme in the event of a halting or greatly contracting, there was a group of consultations hidden by the government to evaluate the need for a commercially important enterprise. At the same time, the consultation group was assigned to work a practical plan if needed. A report by the Commission is now available along with a flying control program and the impact on tourism. However, there is a possibility that the results of the fusion of Iclinand and Wonow air will affect the results of the current report and the required equipment. Finally, he asked why. A senator, whether the government would have any plans to enter if an international club was heading for a business stop because of financial problems. As mentioned earlier, the government closely monitors the status of the aircraft market. The replacement of an airline, whether a foreign or a foreign society, is prepared by the government. Clearly, the airport market has changed rapidly in recent years, and this has been taken into account by governments. However, governments do not have plans to infiltrate any individual airlines or to take part in such organizations. Many European countries have undergone such operations in recent years. In most cases, this has resulted in high costs for taxpayers without the ability to save their partners. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u32	Mr. President. In recent years, the tourism industry has grown considerably. Of course, this ever - increasing industry has a positive effect on us, for it has greatly increased our prosperity. Sadly, though, as in the past, governments are not prepared. They seem to be falling asleep by the stream of tourists floundering all over the country. Despite the marvelous promises of the government, they have not made any policies. They have provided no means for the United States to protect the public from the United States, which in a regular way is to watch the level of profits that are privateized and, worse for the common people, the loss is government. Of course, today's public fears that the tourist industry has also been promoted in unprecedented ways. A government review produced a very useful report more than a year ago, showing that the responsible and role division within the tourism administration is blurred and not entirely in accordance with the current travel laws. Finds Constitutions that governments have not yet established a common policy on the issues of tourism to the future. Depending on the latest response to a travel, industrial, and innovation minister to the council, the question is that it worked on a travel program 2011-2020, although in the annual report of the State Reconclusions previously established, it would show that the strategy is either met or eliminated where different circumstances are changed and therefore of limited benefit. There's still no policy. Travel issues, including international and international policies, are in complete uncertainty, and it appears, despite the disturbing news of the past few weeks in regard to Icelandic airlines, which are now out of control. Mr. President. That's a fair thing to say on the part of the government, a lot of carelessness.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u33	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you very much for this conversation that concerns the flights, never dull to talk about. We're talking about the arrival of a U.S. Air Administration Agency. I just want to introduce myself to the fact that I don't think that any other industry in this country or in the general world will be as closely followed by surveillance as this article. The law and the regulations and the other such factors are no greater, I think it is safe to say, than in air traffic. The question is, What intervention should be involved in such a business in the examples presented here? In fact, Primra's flight permit was issued by the Danish and Latvian government. It did not directly turn to the Icelandic government. But it may be said that Wow never ran out. They were caught in that process before it came to pass. V.E.G. Transport and rural management ministers went very well and at high speed through the complex existing monitoring and the demand for a number of targets of air traffic. The key elements of air management, key elements, are safety, safety is guided by everything that takes place there. It also brings about the work of the partners and other such factors. Then I just want to get in on it for a second. A senator who came here before me in a talk chair went a little fast, with regard to the government, the way of sleeping, and the fact that there was no policy or otherwise. It has never been as much advising work as the one currently working by the Icelandic government on travel services and especially flying. Such activities have never been put on the same level as at the moment, in order to be maintained. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u34	Mr. President. This is interesting. With regard to the advising of this case, these are very simple questions that might have been more appropriate at home in verbal inquiry to the minister. But the questions still include misunderstandings that I think must be corrected, i.e. That this is some kind of competitive affair that should be placed on a table in a United States Group. It's just not right. It's the Contestant Control that makes such a case happen. If we stop watching this company as just an airline and start looking at it as a company, it's quite clear that if a company can't run, they'll go under. The market is clearly able to react when the opening is due to bankruptcy. It's just that way. This, of course, is normal. And here we come to the size of these airlines, that when companies are too big to fall, at the Contesting Commission in some way prepare things to be right so that there will be a lower national risk. If they do not have enough authority to do so, we need to provide them with a source. So I think that answers to the highest. Ministers have only been good. But I'd rather talk about flying in Iceland, that there's a reason to start watching more fuel use of planes. There are now about 30% differences in fuel consumption between two comparable aircraft, in use for each airline. There is something that causes a measure of interest to us or a lack of opinion. And there are, of course, the safety factors that have been developed in this council hall. My main concern is the importance of making sure that all aircraft can be landed on the way to the country in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u35	Mr. President. This discussion here can be drawn from quite a number of perspectives, which is the subject of a series of debates. paritaprevir The book of Birgir's Þórarinsson has been very extensive, and it has reflected a little in the above - mentioned talks. What I want to come on is that I think it's very important what this has shown to me that a group of consultations has been committed by the government to evaluate the need for a systematic development programme, that there is a need to work on such a strategy. This I believe is very important and, in fact, important in a number of contexts, that such a strategy lies in a systematicly important business. It tells itself that we must want to have a plan for them if we are concerned about their status. But I think there's something else here that you can look into and agree with when this is discussed. Hv. paritaprevir That is exactly what Þórarinsson's dwellers described as national security. I think it matters, for example. in much more context, not just the important sector in which the tourist industry is but simply an important resource for the country, such as food and other things. I think it all meant a lot. I just want to say thank you to the highest. Minister for answers to how this work is being carried out. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to listening to further discussions, which I think can take a little more time out in many parts of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u36	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir The servant of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, and the minister of this matter. It is certainly time to talk about flying, and it is time for him and all the activities connected with the flight to become an important part of Icelandic economic and commercial life. All of this calls for a large number of highly educated and specialized staff. Hv. A senator made it a special subject of surveillance on the part of a Grouping Agency with various factors in the air management business, and I must allow myself to say that a minister's answers have been marked by something realistic and rational. It cannot be seen that it serves any advantage for public members to come to some extent to a partner's business, as a minister could. Similarly, over the years he had limited success in neighboring lands. We need to live with this. On the other hand, when it comes to flying, the objective of the government must be to ensure that the highest standards of safety are set. I would like to agree with that subject. paritaprevir The northern Njáll of Friðbertsson, who has expertise in this field, is the son of Trausti.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u37	Mr. President. You're right. Thanks. The apocalyptic, what. paritaprevir My lord, the Birgir of Þórarinsson, for taking up this matter. It can be examined from a variety of perspectives, as it were. I hit e.g. depending on the dog's condition. In his introduction, a senator brought up the matter, including A hundred dollars would have been weakened by the difficulties of the airline. This gives you reason to think about what we do in many ways with a fragile system when problems between parties can cause great fluctuations in the currency. It is also noted that when we have a company that has become very large in a small pond, our bulging can become quite substantial when something happens in the business of these partners. That is why I think it is urgent that we can be confident that governments will be monitoring and alert to any exorcisms that may arise. It's such a big blow if something happens in our society, whether we look at it, whether we just watch unemployment numbers or what would happen in the tourism if a club like Wow or Icelandir -- well, it's natural, first and foremost these two companies that are underneath us -- suddenly go around. Get away from it. It is vital that we be assured that we are being watched closely. That Primera Air is to be taken to head may not be causing much damage in the country that monitors that airline. It looks different here, and we must act accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u38	A respectable president. I want to be like everyone else to thank for the discussion we have here. Of course, it is very important that government agencies, whatever their names or wherever their roles are, have tools and tools to follow their own steps and, of course, also carry out the future for which they are to build up and monitor. I think it's important to take this discussion. Of course, we can approach the matter based on various angles and angles. What I would like to mention here is that it is important to shape long - term flight policies, as the Central Party concluded at its National Assembly in April 2018. We've seen a lot of structure, especially at Keflavík. Recently, we welcome 9,000,000 passengers, if I recall correctly, showing the tremendous amount of traffic on the airport. We need to do more, we need to make sure that the number of planes that land in Iceland could land somewhere else in the country is like this. As a result, I remind myself of a suggestion. paritaprevir Jónsson Victorson of Páll's Airport It is also very important that we not only watch passengers when talking about the importance of domestic flights, since freight transport has become a major factor in the flight. I'd really like to know if it's the highest. A minister has the information about how much of the international flights are freight transport, especially when it comes to fresh products, sea products, of course, that we know are being exported around the world every day. Actually, that's the way it is, I think, the highest. President, that when we talk about security in flight, it's probably one of the most dangerous things to go to and from the airport, i.e. Smoking track is probably the most dangerous thing about flying to and from Iceland today. That track needs a lot more money. It is putting far too little patch on, and in reality it is sad to see that it is not more ambitious when it comes to putting more money into it. Flight and flight, flight security is something we're supposed to discuss here regularly at the council and, as I said at the outset, we're all supposed to lie down in the years trying to make a long-term policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This important discussion of the international and international aircraft operation is given by the Birgir of Þórarinsson. Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, for his input into the discussion. The importance and scope of tourism have increased substantially in recent years, especially in currency levels, and, of course, passenger transport is a major factor in this growth and services. This is a national or systematicly important enterprise and is the scope to enhance the impact on the economy. I'm going to turn up my opinion. Legal committees on the State budget and, in fact, on the budget bill that has been called up to stage photos of its impact on the economy. More part of the legal committee is included in the Committee's list of committees. During the spring financial program, in recent years there has been an increase in the number of air traffic accidents. The number of jets flying in and out of Icelandic society has ranged from 16 planes in 2010 to 47 in 2017 and the budget is expected to have 57 jets at the end of this year. Visitors from tourism were about 42% of the nation's total currency income and are primarily divided into two parts of national services and air traffic, which weigh about 353/40%, and contributes to the development of future statistics. It's such a hard way to fly at the currency level. V.E.G. A minister undertook the role of a U.S. Air Control Agency and the measures it has to take on this surveillance. Most important, the government has a plan in such situations that we have experienced in the past few months, regularly evaluating what to do in such situations. Similarly, it is important that we keep up with the government's efforts to improve our economic report on tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u40	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson's offer for bringing this up, with increasing travel services and increasing activity in the Icelandic airlines, it is clear that governments need to be aware of the status of their airlines, as well as the potential effects that could become in case of disaster. The nature of the situation, according to local tourism, is highly dependent on air transports, and considering the fact that tourism has become the biggest industry that earns the most currency pay, the national importance of the Icelandic airline is obvious. In fact, the situation has become that way, as we have seen, including on the tourist side, that nowhere else is the value of national airlines more than in Iceland. All too often, we Icelanders have been in a position where certain sectores threaten to stabilise in Icelandic society or, as it is called, become too big to fall. When the banking system collapsed, all of us are still freshly remembered and have consequences for all of us. The failure experience has taught us that it is very important to have effective monitoring and clear permission to act. Governments need to draw up visual pictures of what could happen and plan to prevent the worst stage movies from becoming reality. Mr. President. The situation in the United States once again shows the importance of the international government's emphasis on promoting a wide range of employment conditions, where many different branches are strong and provide additional support instead of being repeatedly dependent on the survival of one branch. In this regard, I have to mention recent reports of the Global Innovation Index, where Iceland fell by ten places. [[The president calls.]] We need to put a lot more energy into innovation, further support for Icelandic employment, but maybe we need to change the currency to make it feel better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u41	Mr. President. The discussion is now being published in various aspects of our flight in this second speech. It has developed in this way today. The economic significance of the flight, and in the context of Icelandic tourism, is enormous in Iceland. The airlines transport about 70 to80% of foreign tourists to the country using Icelandic machines. This involved over 500 billion dollars in currency last year, since tourism itself may have been present, in a country of 320,322 billion but 180 billion flights. As noted earlier, for decades the flight in historical context has included some 353/40% of the money paid for travel. The flight has always been part of that. I'm very happy in this discussion how many people are talking about flying in a larger context that has to do with the backup airports and the system as such to ensure flight safety and flight security. I think we're going on a trip over the next few years to make that pursuit more secure and take it deeper in the future. But this discussion has changed much over a period of not long, in some two years, and it should be welcomed. I can't help but be especially happy with the way she's evolved. The story of a flight in Iceland is going to be 100 years old, it'll be next year. On September 3, next year, there are 100 years since the first flight of the Water marshes. It is an amazing story that we can be proud of, and it has really been one of the foundations of this nation in its construction, what has become of us in recent decades. That's where the flight has been playing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u42	Mr. President. I'm going to start by saying, "What?" paritaprevir The remains of Njáll, Trausti of Friðbertsson, the joy of how many members of the council have been interested in the airports, and especially himself. Of course, as an island, we are supposed to have a powerful flying industry. It is simply so that he is our main link day by day with the world around us. Of course, the ships take the containers, but the people want to move faster. If we are to support such a industry, we need a stronger economy. Now the discussion seems to be moving on. We need a economy that can handle types of cuts but also a economy where a powerful company like Waow air, which is and was a powerful firm with a difficult management ground. We need to create a good management ground for companies who want to work in this country. Hv. paritaprevir For example, Oddný G. Harðardóttir mentioned the currency as part of that relationship. I totally agree with her. Of course, it would have been normal when we first took the position of not letting the currency become as strong as we were, using the influx of a currency as a positive share to get into a positive foreign investment, as many countries have done in the same circumstances as we were in, and in which they are, not to put pressure on companies which pay other currency than they earn. By doing so, we could strengthen our economy rather than strengthen the crown. It is a key that we always lose sight of when we start talking about these things. But as I said in my first speech, all the discussions about the airlines as such and their competitiveness to be in relation to competitive matters in general. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u43	I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to welcome the long-stranded news of the international flight. I witness there in a new daylight entry on Facebook at the highest level. A minister who declares that we will soon see the suggestions of a national service team on international growth. It's exciting because, as most of us know, flight costs are too high and it's a big urbanity to equal the availability of the population for basic services, such as health care. Besides, these are huge expenses for a normal family, she wants, for example. see the layout of some play at the National Theatre. We all know this, so it's amazingly long - awaited news. I'd also like to take advantage of this opportunity and ask you the highest possible question. Minister if the task force has examined how international flights can be extended to Egile and Akureyri airports, which have been most prominent in the discussion, to allow for better distribution of tourists throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u44	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? Birgir Þórarinsson's offer, for taking up this matter at the council, ends with a very important matter and can make a big difference, both in travel services as well as in national interests, how to use Icelandic airlines. From the earliest time of human history or from the human past on its hind legs, it seems that the birds of heaven are fascinated by this slow, physical creature that mankind truly is when it is looked at. Thus, man has been envious of the creatures who can fly with wings over those who do not have an inborn ability to begin flight. Later, the man overcomes the forces that kept him on the ground and today, over 100 years later, the flight is intertwined with all the well - being and progress in today's society. Even so, the flight is closely linked to the well - being of our Icelanders as a nation, since it is now time for flights to depend on our leading income source, the travel industry, which has, in a very short time, proved to be the source of all our most traditional professional means of life in the nation for centuries. Then you can point out that there is more to flying in the country than tourists, since there is a lot of technical knowledge about all the services and jobs around the article without my counting it all up here. In addition, we make a lot of money from air traffic control in one of the largest air traffic sites on the planet that extend far beyond the surrounding region. Therefore, air travel to and from the country and the industry and the knowledge associated with flights are of utmost importance to us, and most of the time we have Icelandic airlines taking care of these flights to the country. Mr. President. It is important, therefore, that the management of the Icelandic airlines is as healthy as any member of the government and that governments have the most careful measures to avoid unannounced shrapnels. Over these things need to be kept awake, with great social interests involved. In this way, it is important that governments have prepared and prepared a response plan in the event of any action on these topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers of the discussion and members of the council. I have some doubts about how the airline's had enough control of a maintenance room, especially the Wow airline. It's not normal that such a systematic important business such as Wew's business can put the financial sum down to 4.5% in the high-resurrection period. So I want to pray to the highest. Ministers to decide if a Grouping Agency has made a test of Icelanda and Wow with regard to financial status and financial capital. It may be asked if at that time a traveling minister has had information on the lack of financial control of the airlines, but according to the results of a staff group appointed by the secretary in March 2017 to perform analysis of the Agency's tasks, it is necessary to ensure that there is a clear separation between the Rapporteurs and the control providers. The group criticized, e.g. serious contact between the Association and Istavia, which was neither professional nor formal. Mr. President. In this discussion, it would also have been necessary to discuss the access of national financial and pension funds, what is the risk of national financial institutions owned by the State on transport services if the result is to substantially reduce the activity of Wow. As mentioned earlier, international airlines are systematically important, and thus the public's surveillance role must be strong and acceptable. The banks are systematicly important, as we know, and in comparison, we have today a powerful control of financial activity in the hands of the UN. Bank management is closely monitored, under conditions relating to loan growth, collection of deposits and the like. [[The president calls.]] The same thing has to be true about the airline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u46	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's dwellers asked a few questions, including to a suitable staff living room. To me, there is no question that such works have both the knowledge and the ability to do them. It is also asked if the Agency has followed its surveillance at the end of the year. As I went over in my previous reply, a hallroom has all those sources and has used them to monitor as closely as possible. It is clear that we, the government, have been working systematically during the past few months to plan a job or evaluate the position of a systematic important enterprise. The conclusion is that the Icelandic economy is much stronger and more diverse than ever before, it does not depend on just one factor or two so that it can withstand problems with the business of the individual enterprises. That's why I came into my entrance that I didn't have time to go into such a company. Part of our work has also involved evaluating how we might need to respond and whether we need to respond. In view of that work, the response of others to similar situations has been considered regarding mistakes they have made. Otherwise, I'd like to thank you for your objective discussion. It was very perturbing in all but one thing. There was a wuss. Councilman of the United States, Helga Helgadóttir Helgaadóttir, with irresponsibility. However, there was one point that was right with her. She said that governments did not have a policy. That's right. There's never been a flight policy before. That was one of the first decisions I made when I came into the Ministry. Hv. paritaprevir In addition, Ramídi Friðbertsson, who has a lot of knowledge of this matter, noted that we had spent the last few months working on air policies. I hope it brings back even. that there may be an increase in international flight as long as possible. paritaprevir Berglind Häsler was asking for it. [[The president calls.]] But clearly the situation is that flying has grown and has become a major part of the economic situation in Iceland, the basis of tourism. It is important that governments comply, as well as agencies, with the recruitment process.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u47	Mr. President. I'm in the President's conference board because the prime committee decided at their meeting today to investigate the cost of driving, as well as the explanation. paritaprevir Ásmundur's Friðriksson, the son of Friðrk, reveals that he did not violate the norm in the Code of the Generals. At the same meeting, there was some suggestions that came out of the question. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, to refer the case to the Committee of Moral Affairs, to counsel on this matter, on impartial treatment, to be rejected. He also wanted the case to be sent, i.e. The case report, to GRECO, also refused. At the same meeting, threats were made. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who made a quick suggestion to make a driving payment. paritaprevir The Ásmundur of the son of Friðriksson would be examined for violations of ethical principles, the consequences would be the result, i.e. that he himself be examined for the possibility of such a violation of ethical principles. I want it to appear in this public address that having a messenger reason with specific suggestions will lead to its violation of the protocol itself. [[The president calls.]] It's disturbing, and it's amazing that this appeared on the Council's Presidency Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u48	Mr. President. This is what a man was afraid of when we were writing the rules of ethics at the last or last term, anyway, when I was at the council, before I left the time. I said: I wouldn't want to be on that protocol if it were really so that the prime committee itself was putting up a case about their own partners when suggestions or complaints came to them about whether they had violated the code of ethics. This would offer a risk to the world that the greater part did not want to choose or make decisions that their members in the administrative part were wrong. At the same time, it put the smaller portion in the most extreme danger, the smaller part to monitor the greater part, the administrative part, that ethical rules would be used in the force of a greater part of the Presidency Committee as a discipline against the smaller parts. There have been extreme circumstances that have developed today. I mentioned this on the Presidency Committee at the time, when we were writing the code of ethics. We had a moral committee, but the Committee to Presidency did not want to lead it there. [[The president calls.]] According to the Code, the procedure should be impartial. It was refused to be referred to a ethical committee to make sure there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u49	Mr. President. I come up here to join my friends. It is not acceptable when suggesting that it is not right, when the approach to the removal of the problem is whitewashing the point by trying to make this work as an acceptable result of some kind. The fact is, when problems arise, whatever their nature, it is normal to start a process that ensures that those who have a direct relationship with the person do not have the last word, at least there is some foreign counseling that will help those who have to make the right decision. Doing this in a way that has been done here is kind of embarrassing. [[The president calls.]] I was hoping that General Morality was on a higher level.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u50	V.E.G. President. Anyone who reads why not. paritaprevir For the presidency of the presiding committee, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, dated November 14th, will see that in his letter he identitys a thief to 62 members of the council. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] It literally states that the exact amount of travel that all members of the Parliament, except their natural nature, have been calculated. In terms of his warning requirement to set up a member of Congress in particular, this case has been reviewed not just once but three times on both the presiding committee and the council's office. There's no argument, chief. President, in the districts that have received a prime committee that deserves a prime committee to accept this matter as requested in the letter. I originally made my point - it is best to inform the government of what is going on at the presiding committee meeting - that the original address would be repeated to the senator, wishing that he would apologize for it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It was not the word, but it might have been better done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u51	The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the speedy deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u52	Mr. President. I'm rather reluctant to discuss this matter under the supervision of President, for this discussion is scheduled for the presiding committee. According to the General's law and administration, the Committee to Presidency will handle this matter. This has been done, has worked hard, and done with a logical conclusion on six pages. This may be different from what some might have wanted to see. But concerning this there was a full solidarity of the presiding committee, as many as were gathered there, except for one man; i.e. a member of the Pirata Committee, who was not taking care of the case. I encourage people to read the material conclusion of the matter, the detailed, thorough logical support, well - legalized, and the work laid out to reach this conclusion, where both sides were given the opportunity to enter their views, where the office made their comments and actually proposed a lot of work to see if there was anything to be found. [[Up front.]] The result was clear: There was no subject for the alleged ethical violation. That is a clear, decisive conclusion, and it is to be held back. It is in harmony with what is expected when protocols are to be toed. [[The president calls.]] I object to the fact that a prime committee is being brought up for bad practices in the matter. I object on behalf of the Presidency Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u53	President. The main concern is the example being set. Instead of enforcing the case to the Commission, the prime committee has decided that the code of ethics has not been broken and that it is not worth any further investigation. This sets the pattern in the future that a prime committee can make such a decision as to a violation of ethical principles, about the possible offense of friends, instead of taking it to independent parties. It is a violation of ethics, and it is a concern, especially in view of the fact that the person who made the request is threatened by violating a moral code and being sent by a civil committee, that he himself be accused of violating a moral code. It's very serious when those threats come out. I'd like to go to the highest. The president of the Generals would come up here and explain how it is lawful to bring such threats to a meeting of the presiding committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u54	A respectable president. Of course, listening to a case is shocking. Pálmi pirata's members on this case. The prime committee took this matter up to their request, according to their wishes, examined the matter, came to their conclusion, and has presented that conclusion. To have to, after the conclusion is given, listen to this climb again - w. People would be more ashamed to be ashamed, to apologize for false charges and thievery than to continue the climb after the conclusion of the matter. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u55	Mr. President. For the sake of the discussion, I wanted to reject the charges brought here by the Council Presidency Committee, which I believe has come to pass. paritaprevir The case of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, was serious and addressed on a perplexing basis. Actually, I don't have a seat on the Committee to Presidency, but I would have counted it out on my basis that this business was unprovoked and unfounded from the start. All I need to know is that the Presidency Committee took this seriously, discussed this from the rules set out in this house, and came to a conclusion. I think people have to accept it. Even though Piratars may have wanted a different conclusion, I think they must accept that under their view no one on the presiding committee and, under their view, the facts are ignored. [[Up front.]] There is no subject to take sides in the way the Pirantars do. That's not something they can do. [[The president calls.]] The charges are unfounded and unfounded, and hopefully this case will be settled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u56	V.E.G. President. There were serious accusations made against one senator and, indeed, the whole body of Congress. The charges were taken seriously. The case has been done very well and carefully on the presiding committee, entered, and performed well. I thought we had reached a spot there. There is no such thing as an indication that something further can be done. I think it's fully researched. It's clear. All members of the Presidency Committee, except for one, agreed. There's nothing back there that can be viewed as suspicious, and I ask men to give up accusations and let them stay in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u57	Mr. President. What we are describing here is that a prime committee lost many opportunities today. She lost the opportunity to activate a former ethic committee and thus threw down the trial rather than to strengthen it with convincing evidence that the right was right. At the same time, they are. A senator who made a complaint this day threatened with the consequences of his actions, which is a violation of moral principles on its own. It should be maintained. Give it a shot. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, for counselling, even counselling, from an external ethic committee, about how the matter could be handled successfully, in order to have confidence in the outcome, was also rejected. This was the treatment of lost instruments by a prime committee. That is what we draw attention to as well as to the disturbing fact of threatening members of Congress with consequences when they follow their own convictions and send in a complaint or tip on a possible violation of ethical principles. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u58	Mr. President. I'm not going to come up here to tell or to state the contents of the case. Rather, I'm going to point out that the Council's Committee has never met since the Council's Code of Morality was set up but to give its opinion when it came to changing ethics in the wake of #meto. That in itself is interesting. It's interesting to me that a social committee has never been used. I believe there is good reason to consult the committee, which is that I think I am well organized. If this isn't why, when we're dealing with something that concerns us, all 63 of us who are in here, I don't know exactly when it should be. I think it would have been an ideal opportunity right now, although only for the person who was the most accused, to have a completely neutral view of whether the charges were unfounded or not. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's so bad to be left behind with the yes-brothers around you and not have had this objective assessment. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u59	A respectable president. I think it's exhausting, but it's a little bit of an interesting pattern that sometimes shows up in the wind. The members of the Independence Party, when they are disciplined, are stumbled by someone speaking to someone or pointing to things. They will be terribly shocked at the use of a certain word and will feel that it must eventually undermine the credibility of that saying. But I would like to draw attention to the words of a respected president earlier when he said that there was no reason to start an investigation of an alleged protocol. That's what a respectable president said. Likewise, there are no 62 senators who are thieves in the business of the Björn of Levi, the Leví of Gunnarsson. I'm one of 62 members of the council, inevitable, unless he didn't mean me but everybody else, and I don't see that I'm a thief. [[For example, consider this point: It says in the letter.]] What remains is, then, that the prime committee refuses to consult the Committee of the Organization, which was designed to have faith in such a process. Why couldn't they bring her together? Why couldn't you get her to do this? Why did the matter have to be thrown out backwards and before, as a respected president said, but a study was once under way?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u60	Mr. President. Let me give you some facts on this matter, which is in the evidence. It is good to examine the evidence that appears on the II Web site. They say that at the time given, the Code of Morality for the Generals is responsible for members of Congress, with the permission of a president: ▪ The Senators should make sure that their spending is in perfect harmony with the rules set out in such cases. The same rule as the President's permission: ▪ When the General's office needs more than 15,000 miles [1,000 km] in his work, let him get used by a rental car proposed by the U.S. Marshal's Office. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson admits in Castlight Field, which is accompanied by a rescription of the data on the Walpetary website and is public to everyone, that the office came to him and told him to go to a rental car, but he didn't want it. So he continues to send in a request for his so - called reimbursement. We've got a break. It's just a violation of the rules. [[The president calls.]] It is clear to all the people in the country who want to examine it. [[The president calls.]] This is the evidence. Let the evidence speak for itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u61	President. I'm amazed that each member of the board of directors after another comes in a pita and speaks of members of the Presidency Committee have come to the conclusion that it was not necessary to consider further whether the coal or its friends have violated the code of ethics. Isn't that a little strange? Would it not have been healthier to let an outside body, such as a moral committee, look into the matter so that there could be no doubt about it? This is not for building trust. I don't understand that it's gonna be okay. What if the prime committee is about to take the lead in studying the fragments of their colleagues and making decisions as to whether the code of morality has been broken or not? Is that the future? Should it be sent to the Committee of the Nations only if a member of the Assembly has committed a crime? Should the board be used then? [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u62	Mr. President. First, it is clear that this issue has nothing more or less to do, as is true of all the prime committees, apart from one person, to the detriment of the case, to include both the majority and the smaller parts. Second, it is true that this is the second time the prime committee actually addresses the same issue and spends considerable time on it, and the conclusion remains the same for both times, the last winter, and again. This proved to be no more than it was in springtime. I'm sorry. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson gives us some material and tries to further the matter. He is one of the so - called house officials, and it is true that some of them were still using their own cars after suggesting that they take rental cars at the 15,000 km line, but the EIC has explained how the situation is growing, that the induction was going on, and that it is no less true that a prime committee and the office had not set clear rules on the use of such cars. So it is perfectly clear that they senators had good faith in this regard. [[The president calls.]] With regard to the ethic committee, it is for counseling if a prime committee has something to send it, if there is evidence to consider a more serious matter. [[The president calls.]] It is always in the hands of the Presidency Committee whether it will end in a simple way or, if such is thought to be the cause, will be the case. [[The president calls.]] It was a unanimous decision made by a prime committee who worked with lawyers and the office that there was no such cause, and the conclusion goes with them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Just one statement at the beginning: The senator who stands here is not the sponsor of the board of directors at the General and does not belong to him. [[Why?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u64	What?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u65	I know this is a shock to a lot of people, and there's going to be post-traumatic aid, but it's still like this. That, however, is most reprehensible, as I noted earlier, when 62 senators are thieverical in one letter. So the person standing here is not very good if he is a thief, has never done, and will not do so. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson believes that the person standing here has failed with public funds that are the closest to charging him to the police, i.e. The one standing here. If it is true that he has violated the law and is in possession of the country's funds, the charge is to be taken to the police. That's the right way. But not accepting a democratic decision on a prime committee, continuing this, and hitting one's own drum to get one of these bad people to work here, would naturally be an extension of the propaganda of this class. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Don't you think it's right to call your work psychologist back? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u66	Mr. President. I have to make a comment to the concept of a thief's theory where it's never been like that... þm. Björn Leví, Gunnar, is not a thief's doctrine. [[Up front.]] However, it points out that there are examples, known examples that have been discussed in the media during the greater part of the year, that the rules have not been completely followed. [[Up front.]] If something goes wrong in such a situation, and there is reason to believe that it may not have been renovated, it is only natural for someone to send in a message and request that it be canceled. This does not involve a thief's teaching. It involves a request for things to be checked, and this was certainly examined. I disagree with the conclusion, but fine. The only thing I regret about the trial is that a board of ethics has not been used, which was directly set up to deal with these matters when they come up. [[The president calls.]] You could do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u67	A respectable president. I think it's a story. Hv. 8th yrs We're out of Suðvest. " Jón Þór Ólafsson, " explained a vivid example that can be found publicly on a matter of reason, as to why we should examine this subject. But here comes why. People rise and say there's no evidence. A respectable president says that if there's anything to send it, it's probably using the ethics committee. This pontta, and officially among the media, we find things to look at. I know they've been introduced. A prime committee and a respectable president. The comment points to the ludicrous notion that there is no evidence that the matter will be examined more carefully by the National Committee, that there is nothing to be considered, as the public must see through and through. Senators would like to keep that in mind. This was not some small thing that went in through one ear and out of the other of the common people. It was a big group of paintings, people were naturally shocked because of it, making it a complete requirement that we make money a success of it. When we do not, we shoulder responsibility for doing so. [[The president calls.]] What happened today is a manifestation that the Council either cannot or does not want to do so. [[The president calls.]] Either way, completely, completely unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] This should be a lesson for the day, and especially for a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u68	A respectable president. It's sad that we're in this seminar, or what we're supposed to call it, listening to the bullshit from Pirates about this whole thing. Of course, we have a system of things at the council. Of course, if the Pirats can't accept it, they have to deal with themselves. Men are here making all kinds of statements that even thieves and things that are not available. This is truly remarkable. The president of the Generalis came to the pontu and pointed out that there were no arguments, there is no argument. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson about what can be read on the Internet and in the media, etc. [[Up front.]] No reason. Yet men long for it. The president also reminded the presiding committee that there is no reason to investigate the matter. Then you ask me why. paritaprevir Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson: Why throw the case out before an investigation? There was no need to investigate. That was the conclusion of the presiding committee. Therefore, they are not referred to the Committee of the Nations. Piranians, like others, must someday learn to obey rules. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u69	Mr. President. Let us bear in mind, my friends, that this is a huge case in which no consultation has been made, not even an experiment, not even that the phone was picked up on the side of the highest level. A sea chief minister to the opposing parties and discussed how to handle the matter, how to settle this fundamental way in which the people need this reconciliation. I have not yet lost faith in it, despite all the havari that has been here. It's still possible to make long - awaited peace if you just want to. It wasn't an experiment to a total. The government is not old at the age of one year, and it appears its national treaty has arrived in less than a year just as early as the National Museum. Remember the contents of the Treaty at the National Museum, i.e. that any further plans for future life need to be done on increased consultations and better communication. Is there a need to promote cooperation between groups at the General Assembly, strengthen the independence of the council - any of these? - Its equipment, professional support and position. This was said of consultations in the government covenant, and men and women are quick to forget. This chose the government, let's keep in mind. The government chose not to consult. It was offered many times, including. last year, trying to find this thread. V.E.G. The prime minister has some opinions on this matter, and I want to stress that I have already asked for it to the highest level. This discussion will be conducted by the prime minister, either today or tomorrow, and if ever so. A prime minister does not simply postpone the case because it is important to get the views and viewpoints of greener people, whether they have completely cowed from their previous course. I don't necessarily hope that they will come to the table with any agreement, just that they will explain to us the policy of the government's leading party. That's right, one of the most pleasant times I've had since last year, was being in a very difficult ministry, the basic Ministry for Us Icelanders, the historic Ministry, the Sea Road and Agriculture Ministry. I admit, I may well be a simple person, but I tried to get everyone to the table. I tried to find a way to finish this thing, hopefully to some extent once and for all. The point wasn't to run through with a hard - and - fast course of restoration, running through the market route in which we believed, because we believed in the market. We believe that the market is the best person to value the resource price, the real market value to pay for the purpose of the nation's combined resource. I have more faith in the market than the government who decides with its own devices what the price is, who is most drawn up by the ridiculers of the government. That's what we're doing here today. I believe the market would be better off if it fell, but I wasn't running that suggestion through, marketing route. On the other hand, the Council is now driving through a dream proposal - and the left - green must also face it - the Independence Party. I thought it was important that we get along with this most important industry, and I worked hard. I certainly faced all kinds of decisions that would have been very tempting to make, whether in the mackerel or in other areas, to jump the system, set on resource bills in the way that I would have chosen. They'll stake themselves on a week for big interests, to work on the reconciliation. The government of the present government chooses not to agree on these matters, and I appreciate that the prime minister does not consider anything to be done when ministers set in motion the reconciliation committees of all classes, even at the time, I used myself for the fact that all classes were represented at the table. What did that mean? Among other things, the leader of the Independence Party in the government was very strongly at odds with the fact that the anti - government groups actually had four representatives against the three governmental parties. But this was to try to make peace. I understand the highest. The prime minister believes that we should have overlooked the agreement and made further consultations, especially when we see how the government works in this important matter. We find it, the Excellency of Congress, that, of course, the government and the prime minister know of themselves the shame and we feel the inconvenience that the government groups are facing to drive this through. One of the things they've also chosen to put forward this priorities is that in the same week that they approve of a financial bill, agree to lower my own promises, so that I could be reasonable, to despair and older citizens when this case is run through, taken out of the Committee. No attempt was made to ask if we had any other suggestions. It was just these suggestions or not, so run through. It is of interest to consider the present attitude of the ruling class and the government leaders in an effort to make peace. In other words, they've been cowering. Therefore, I want the highest. To participate in this discussion, the prime minister will be present for the discussion. The director of the trade committee called it - it describes the variety and fun of life - our wet dreams in the government standby making this proposal, wanting to make peace. It's a wet dream to want to make peace, to want long - term agreement with the nation of fish-fishing resources. The left movement, called wet dreams, is a green supply. It's different for me before. I feel that the left movement has come a long way from its purpose when she is speaking in this way. All right, let's go over it. I have asked many questions, but no answers have been answered, "Why is this being prompted? " It is a destabilizing oil price, a destabilizing gang, all of a factor that has a significance to 20 billion for the development in the last few weeks, as Þorláksson H. has noted. Why, then, should we not simply cool off and say, "Let's find the tone we can find together? " Therefore, I would like to oppose what some have used to mislead the discussion, as I would either not understand our proposals in the side of the government or say that the discussion is being misled. It's not a marketing plan, it's not an auction. It is pushed aside. We are trying to identify what all classes, even certain voices within the Independence Party, have pointed to, i.e. to ensure temporary negotiations and include ... theinbox. The bill of the seafaring minister includes some improvements in existing time frame legislation. Sometimes I have a feeling that the government groups just want to think that the issue is about the one thing that goes ahead. It's not about that. It's just that the debate is being misled, that they're just moving in time. It is changing the entire pay-off side, and it is a public secret that first the bill's objective was found to reduce its hunting fees by 36.5 billion, and then methodology was discovered around it, and representatives of the Independence Party and the left green swamp were found to build the bill around its goal. It's not just me who says this, but the left green supporters also make it even. in their articles. A report by the Committee of Resources since 2000 has repeatedly confirmed that a greater proportion of the nation wants the nation's possession of fish resources in Icelandic legislation to be established and temporary production of innovation rights. It is also the arrangement we know that neighboring countries have used. At the same time as temporary rights of innovation confirm their country's ownership, time binding can ensure greater stability and awareness of its structure. This is extremely important. From a public interest point of view, time commitment destroys the legal uncertainty that has been involved in the permanence of rights. As I have experienced many times, I have a real concern that the nation's right to possess resources will be weaker as this untimely environment continues and we have no resource restrictions in the constitution. There is a real danger of that. Therefore, I would like to emphasize that a provision for temporary rights - and I hope that people will begin to understand this - is the basis for achieving two important goals in the legislation on this subject; that the rules reflect the national community and that they will contribute to the greatest national economy of fish. That's why I think more transporters, including... On the part of the Union and Pirata, a need to investigate solidarity on this principle, a point that everyone has declared willing to achieve, and was actually essential to the left of the Conspiracy Committee on the left. The premise of the left green was a temporary agreement, which is their policy. Consider, too, that over the past ten years, the arrangement of fishing costs has been changed four times with the uncertainty and costs involved. At the same time, the distribution rules of the target system have been changed, e.g. Adding more coastal fishing, similar ratios were taken from the seawaters to the equation. It has been shown that if people are afraid of compression and the decrease in the number of the people in the group, they are not the main source of the cause, but rather the rest of the factors, I give them more and more. in an article by the H. of Þorláksson, the son of H. The price of hunting is only a refuge from putting this bill through. Temporary contracts can provide for the sake of rights and duties. I think that would be an advantage for the development not always to be on this rock band that's been on the other side of the years, four times. Actually, more changes occur over the course of ten years. As some have said, we should get stability to 20 years of age, 25 years of age. The candidates mentioned 23 years, and this is something I'm convinced that there's a way of agreeing. There are also strong reasons to conclude that the resulting resource costs, such as fishing fees, go into a special fund rather than a state fund. If such pay goes into the state's budget, there is a danger that government patience for the appeals that normally mark these charges will become very limited and that these will become the tendency, as is often, to reimburse the fee so that when bad years are done, they can only be added to a tax system. Such a tendency undermines the price. The fact that the methodology of calculating and stress has changed substantially, as I noted, shows that this is a problem we need to consider. We have to look at it. We're supposed to work against this and let the costs flow into a resource fund or a special fund like, for example. The Norwegian oil reserve is. It is important to build a special fund that is independent of political power. We also need to keep in mind that secular management has usually led to a reduced number of jobs, but the overall forces are naturally limited. Thus, in many parts of the country, the number of jobs in the fishing trade has decreased. Second of all, the possibility of providing updating sources of uncertainty about basic pioneers creates a potential problem. Such uncertainty reduces the drive to build up services in these areas, e.g. by increasing the requirements for growth in investments in weaker areas. The country must be met in this respect. The cost has, in fact, fallen exclusively on these waters of the land. This should be considered in particular. Therefore, we believe, is important, that communities receive part of the economy created by the fishing system as an improvement for the share of the cost of the community they have had to bear. We are saying: The sea should go in agreement with the rural areas, which have actually involved and shoulder the burden of the management of the marine economist system. We're supposed to allow space. We know that there will not be an increase in the number of jobs during hunting and processing, but jobs can increase through secondary articles, research, innovation, travel services, and moving to rural society, depending on what rural communities choose. Our biggest adjustment is that we're gonna be waiting for this year. It is possible to examine a way in which Indriði H. Þorláksson points out, let's finish this with smaller outputs, but let's not change the currency rate and then use the time to achieve harmony and do it properly. Let's wait for this year and try to work on that reconciliation. Other than that, these changes in the fishing expenditures include temporary rights that are extremely important and are consistent with the proposals of the Committee for Resources since 2000. This is the only way, I repeat it, to make sure that the fish stocks are the people's share. I also have to say, a respectable president, that at the same time as being driving this case all through, it's pushing off with great force and some sort of hysteria, it's pretty special to see that a large part of the administrations is creating some straw from the third energy package. A large part of the board of directors is losing themselves over the estimated loss of power because of a third energy package, but at the same time, this same group, these same administration groups, really don't care about the real threat to the nation's fishing resource society is due to doing nothing and ignoring one more time to make temporary agreements according to the proposal of the Committee of Resources in 2000. No, what's done with the energy package that all experts, except for perhaps one, and then some Arabist, in the Norwegian Middle East, agree that there's no threat? What does the government do? She's postponing the case. It needs to be better than that. All right, I'll respect that. But I would have thought that this case had to be won better, which would actually threaten the nation's common concept of fishing for the resource. They don't mind, they're supposed to keep running, but wait with the energy package. I'd also like to assume that in the government's bill, a certain double - skind chick is careful, for the comment says that the aim is to comply with the opinion of the Committee of Resources since 2000 for temporary use, but it does not appear anywhere in the bill itself, much rather, it is being determined for an unlimited use rights of the resource as it has been. So our adjustments, if we look at the comments, are in harmony with our comments. We are helping the government groups to achieve their own goal. It's even a set of things I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What does the highest will be? Prime Minister? Wants the highest. ▪ Don't the prime minister have limited rights to feed the resource? This needs to be explained to the left green. If they believe that there are temporary rights of use now, they must be told exactly who he is. I think it's more important that the legislature authority itself determine the temporary right to use the fish resource rather than a court to determine it. It's important to say what we want. And I don't believe it until it tries that the left green is just going to run against the Auto credit bill without having anything else to say but increasing the discount to smaller outputs, which is fine, but it would have been possible to handle it in another way. They're using my so - called problem in this matter. And well to mark, there's not much difference between poor runouts and that they're small, not at all. Some small designs are very well run, others aren't. It's just that it works. It is being used to address the problems of a specific type of land, to justify the reduction of the whole body, and the whole mass is more and less large. Therefore, in these three groups, we offer a different set of suggestions. We were very aware that some in our backyard were not particularly pleased that we were not offering an important marketing proposal, for an auction. We said: "No, we believe that the greater interests of long - term peace, that we take a little calmness, and that we put aside our own course, with the goal of making peace with the nation's basic way of living. There are some of the prince's challenges, also in this bill, and there are temporary contracts. If we're to ignore the law now, the opportunity for the fishing fee to be paid for temporary use is to threaten the nation's sharing of our resources. There, the government has been in charge, and the government is led by the left movement, ◯ green supply. This must be kept in mind, under these huge interest rates, is the chance to do better. We, these three groups, are offering an opportunity for the matter to be included in a committee between 2 and 3. Um... try to cross it in peace and find this tone that exists. [[The president calls.]] If we believe in word, if we believe in agreement, we can go that way, but if the government doesn't like it, it has to be responsible for that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u70	A respectable president. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: How is the discussion made as a matter of course? A senator and those who make this adjustment have had more to do with the work committee on the fundamental changes to the fishing management system in a fishing project? Where are the careful management and consultations there? There was not one suggestion or idea of what to propose. For the two months that it was being discussed with over 100 visitors, 11 meetings and visits from 26 different countries, all requests were met. There wasn't one suggestion, and I'm gonna go. A senator putting aside funds that do not go to sea research for undefined funds all over the country? What about the elderly and the desperate? [[The president calls.]] What is a government fund to get from hunting fees for older people and poor people? A senator and others have decorated themselves to compare with a discussion on fishing costs?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u71	Mr. President. I'm sorry if it rains. A senator and director of the professional trade committee did not participate in 1st. about the bill. Then it was made clear, very clear, our viewpoints in rejuvenating, as well as other political groups, such as the United States and Pirata, that we were calling for peace, not least temporary, agreements. That was our comment. I'm sorry if you do. A senator has not understood it, as it were. A senator seems to understand our suggestions. Let us also remember that there was a left government here in 2009 in 20042013 that understood the fishing costs from fishing politics. It has always been a custom, and it has been normal to discuss such matters together, resource bills, and fishing management. This was because the left groups of their time did not get together; the left would like to go a different way than those of the time. That government's over. You can discuss these matters together. Even if only this small change was to 1st. The bill to agree that hunting fee is a fee for temporary use of the resource, that is something I think left green should have the courage to accept that it is only the change that is fundamental to ensure the right of the nation's resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u72	Mr. President. Left green will want to consult if you want to work on the changing of the fishing laws. It is true that we want to make changes, and we want all classes there to come. Hv. A senator served as a minister for 11 months. What came out of that Ministerial period of changing the law on the control of fishing? Where, then, were the emphasis? But now it's time. A senator, in the final meters of the second discussion, with a motion that is designed to transform the fishing system. This is amazing, and no one understands this suggestion. It's just to say it right now, no matter what you say it often here, who made the suggestion. I don't think they understand it for themselves, and they can't expect the rest of us to understand something that no one can understand - if they understand what I mean [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]] And where are the settlements and the areas facing the area of fracture prevention? There is not a single word about it in the process of making changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u73	Mr. President. I think I need a word-off on this because that's exactly what it is: Why isn't graffiti? I'll try to talk as slow as I can. The graffiti is not in there because it does not provide fundamental changes in the system as it is now. We suggest that all reassignments go to those who now have the resources, not to new parties, but to those who now have them. It's not offering or doing anything. It's up to 20 years, 5% at the same time to those who have the resources now. Is it complicated? Of course, it is not complicated. Everything else will stay, too. We should not even suggest a change in the payment rule or the remuneration principle, which is a disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u74	- Private system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u75	- Yes, we're certainly talking about the same system with temporary contracts. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] If a person does not understand temporary negotiations and the seriousness of not establishing temporary contracts, the left green will not be guaranteed. [[The president calls.]] We're talking about the nation's share in fishing the resource. If one is going to continue to have the same system, it is a threat that it will reduce our right to the resource and that is what the left green is facing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u76	Temporarily unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u77	The President reminds me of why. Congress officials should not cross the one - minute period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u78	A respectable president. There's a revolutionary proposal for the fishing system in 93 words from a small part of the employment committee. It does not follow any report or application in any way. This is totally incomprehensible. We've been discussing the matter for two months calling out visitors. There's no change proposal to the bill itself, not unless it's about to divide income and there's no output on it either. You might ask: " Where is this adjustment made? What will be the high price of hunting? How are we going to divide it? There's so many things left. I think the smaller part is totally saying here that he doesn't even agree with the fishing fee, the bill. [[The president calls.]] I can't see anything else, no change in plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u79	Mr. President. It is important to note that the adjustment in the reassignment arrangement is clear. The temporary reassignment is available to those who already have a share department. I hope they understand. In other words, it is not opening up a new Member State section. We're getting this princely act on temporary contracts. That's key. You have to understand, that's the key. Otherwise, those who wish to flaunt the data of the resource committee from 2000 are not to do so properly, for the resource committee said: Temporary agreements are key to ensuring that the nation has the right to feed the resource. It is only to make the labor department of the current task force temporary. There's nothing that's being changed. We can be criticized for that. We're trying to focus on what all classes of the time have pointed out, that the contract should be timed and then taken into the building and infrastructure reserves. [[The president calls.]] We're just drawing out what we thought could be settled, the peace that the government didn't try to achieve, but we're trying to achieve. The case was simply driven out of the committee. The matter was run out of the committee, and all we can talk about is that we are trying to make a suggestion that will make peace with the subject. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u80	A respectable president. If we were to talk about this all week, these suggestions would gradually be explained. As we just mentioned, the reassignment of a reservation to those with goodbyes, what's the difference? I don't understand. It is being snatched off the settlement, and then how do they bring it back? With some charity? I think that liberalism just flew onto a wire on its way to Brussels. I just don't think it's a good idea. I'm not yet understanding the suggestions, but maybe you, as I say, manage to explain them better this week. I don't know how to deal with this case because it doesn't mean anything to the bill we're dealing with right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u81	Mr. President. This is a fundamental translation, and it is unfortunate if those in charge do not understand that fundamental translation. I don't know if it's the case or the move you made, but it's not really far from what the Prosecutor laid out in the 20133/42016 government, based on exactly the same ideologies as the head of the forward party submitted at its time, and a representative of the forward party presented in the Conviction Committee last year. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It was until 23 years of age. Let's debate whether it is 20 years old, 23 years old, 25 years old, but this is exactly the same methodology as the forward group wanted, exactly the same methodology as the left greens, and other categories. So they are trying to go to the exact place that other classes have been talking about. What's interesting, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. A senator and also the left movement - a green bid, is that they are acquitted of the independent Party's hunting fees, and I'm sorry. It is not even an effort to resist and say, "Let's get everyone to the table. " Let's get back to terms with this important resource. [[The president calls.]] No, everything the Independence Party says in it is swallowing. These suggestions include: in the form of suggestions from the forward group and other categories.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u82	Nothing from you?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u83	A respectable president. It's quite remarkable to experience that now, for all time, this time, Þorláksson's H. is the chief ideist and the source of course We rebuild when it comes to taxes and remuneration. I eagerly look forward to having a conversation with the restoration site in the weeks and months to come. But let it lie in between things. I'd like to make comments about the speech and the language that were given. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Of course, that is how it works. In fact, a senator demeans the fine men of the left green and progressive council, allowing himself to speak publicly about flooruk in that subject. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. In line with what she wrote in a recent article in the News magazine, a member of Parliament was a minister, since she believed that a reasonable conclusion in the seafaring business would not be obtained by connivation or by political foxes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u84	Mr. President. I'm enjoying it because it depends entirely on which board of directors you listen to what they say. One side is so full of liberalism, we're beyond hope, we're so right-handed, and we believe in the market. Yes, we believe in the market, actually. We trust, then, that the market is better off than the political foxy to decide what the fishing costs are, and I think we're an excellent photo of it here in the hall and at the government table. So the government groups have to decide whether we're a free spirit group or a social group. I don't know what it is. A senator was quoting about Indriði Þorláksson, but I think his articles and many things sem Indriði's son H. Simonsson has written are quite pure. [[Up front.]] I'd like to encourage you. A senator to read the hunting fee, which brings many interesting points, especially by putting aside the bill, taking time to win it better, to ensure that the nation's first and last interests. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It is not the Independence Party, the left green, or the forwarding with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u85	Madam President. It's good to know that the light of restoration in the fishing business and tax matters is the Þorláksson H. of H.öldell. It's good to have another confirmation today. But let it go, and let it lie in between parts of it. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir speaks as if he played some disciplined doubt that the fishing grounds, the marine resources, are the people's share when it is the first sentence in Article 1. legal about the control of fishing. I'm asking why. Senator: How is a man who makes up 1 million and pays 500,000 taxes and earns the next year 500,000, but pays $250,000 in taxes, has been reduced that person's taxes? Is that a tax cut, yeah? A senator, to pay $250,000 of that amount. Take and pay 500,000 a year out of 1 million a year's income? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u86	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator and a captain, Óli Björn Kárason, for filming Article one. Fishy control law. It is important that the fishing grounds are the national share. Yet, there has been a great issue of how to issue it. The Committee for Resources, since 2000, provided a clear conclusion that the contract should be timed, the timing of the waste rights. It hasn't been done, including. Because various members of each category have been critical of the rights to be timed. But this is our suggestion. That's why I must ask the Independence Party. I'll be excited to see that when we make a change of suggestions about Article 1. the price of the fishing fees for temporary use. Then there should be no decision for the Independence Party and left Green and Progress to accept the exact point, that this is a temporary right to use. [[The president calls.]] That's what counts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir and president of the President restores the discourse and explains the proposed changes. A senator is a carrier. Here are some of the income that is under control and the control of fishing for state funds. The rest goes to a country's building fund. These are significant amounts of money every year. The cost of fishing control and monitoring is around 5 billion dollars. And there is not much left in the treasure of the kingdom. Let's get out of here with a talk or something. A senator with a discussion of 2nd. questions about money are tempting to ask. A senator. Chairman of the Environment: What taxes will the Chairman suggest to raise to meet the obvious loss of income in the state's funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u88	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for asking that question. The important thing is the priority of government spending. I'll see you there, for example. in the priorities of the government that it is about to begin changing the Council of Government. The cost is to a third hundred million in change to the Board of Directors, a change in the welfare department, and we see changes and costs at the Presidency Department. In the end, however, it is always about priorities, and there are priorities for this work as well as for everything else. We are simply on the move not to go as the Norwegians have done, properly, with the Norwegian oil reserve, especially so that the process does not always follow, in order to cover the gap in the state's funds. We believe that the resource fund will be created with clear targets and can be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm not convinced. I can't figure out how the classes in my section would possibly, if they were in that position, agree on the needed tax increases. It suggests that considerable funds will be donated from the fund to this fund, a sort of transfer system, without specifically implementing how to perform it. I know why. A senator is eager to see that government affairs are in place and that rules are adhered to. In view of the speech given, why? A senator and a discussion of the lack of transparency and nonverbal communication, I must ask her: How will 5% reassignment affect the income of a state fund every year? I can't see it in the transition. What will be the practical effect of the proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u90	Madam President. Just to reiterate it: If we delay the payment now, at least we'll wait on the conditions of the ransom until the next year and try to negotiate the temporary agreements and building up funds, we're talking about 5 billion. I thought it was 4 billion, but what? In his speech, the head of the prosecuting committee said that there are 12 billion next year, but they will now be in accordance with the 7 billion government bill. There's a 5 billion difference. What we're trying to stress is that by setting this up in a 20-year contract or 25-year deal, there could also be 4%, as we've been talking about, we're not moving each year except this 5%. There is a firm view of its use. In view of the present situation, we are talking about the reassignment of all of this to the present - day fishing courts, to those who have fishing clearances. We can be criticized for not changing anything else in the bill, but it is such a big deal, and it is a big deal to put into force temporary agreements that we actually sacrifice less interests for more. That's how it works. There's no change. This government can say, it will be just as it continues, automatic renewal of the contracts to each year about 5%, and no other change in any other part. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope it explains more about what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u91	Madam President. The bill we are discussing today is strongly political and has been abrasive discussion for a very long time. But everyone agrees that it is neither good nor good for the industry itself, nor for the people of the land, to have to stand forever in it. However, the debate over fishing costs will never be removed from the discussion that has taken place in these last days, centered on basic questions, the legitimate appeal of the nation for benefit from its resources, and how the limited funds of the State are then divided between civil groups or individual groups in the community. There is nothing in the bill that makes an effort to answer the fundamental question of the national legitimate claim to profit from the resource, is simply taken off average of 2009 and found that it is really the same as is now suggested. It should be noted, then, that the first three years of that time were just a token fee. Of course, it's all wrong. It's understood by everyone who knows the basis of an account. The government simply lacks the will and even the ability to deal with this question. There is no discussion about the division of the chute, and it is of course unacceptable that those who put the bill ahead of discussing the main issues and even claiming that the fishing system and fishing costs are unrelated. It has been relatively recently torn apart. This is absurd, Mr. President. It is similar to saying that the changes in the government's proposals are irrelevant. The fact is, the first phase of the memory is about deportation, which gives the General Assembly and all political groups the opportunity to make a more general peace with the subject and a reasonable conclusion. However, if the administrative sector falls to be considered, there are no other factors to establish that are critical for the system and at least Two of the three members of the government have come here to fight for those things. Therefore, the Conspiracy, Piratars, Party of the People, and Reunion suggest that the bill be dismissed, and the next year it will be used to achieve widespread reconciliation, perhaps to the point of the former highest level. For example, when all classes of the General Assembly sat down and discussed the case with the Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, with the intention of trying to make peace. Actually, that government exploded before it came to a conclusion. But if this waiver is canceled, then members of the United States, Upholds, and Piratars will submit their bill with an adjustment to important factors. This change is creating a secure and predictable environment, but at the same time making it clear who is on the resource. Finally, rural communities will be proposed to deal with the uncertainty and disorder that has been followed for a very long time and eventually we will be able to identify who actually owns that resource. Therefore, we suggest that temporary licenses be divided into 20 temporary contracts from 1 to 20 years, and this allows governments every year to consider the arrangements of these 5% at any given time, for as soon as temporary contracts are important, it would certainly be crazy to secure the whole package until 20 or 25 years before we have reached a basic position, agreeing on how this system should exist in the future. I believe that the current government would reassign it in the long run, and it must be so, but we need a chance to get involved. I'm saying there's nothing to suggest an auction here, although the categories involved in the proposal to include different presentations of market routes are the only way that can possibly provide the right price for the resource. We realize that at this point there is no more than that, but we believe that we have an application to a discussion about the long - term fishing regime, especially by reference to the actual constitution, which says, by permission of the president: All future plans need to be done in more detail and with improved communication. The cooperation between groups at the General Assembly must be intensified, strengthening the independence of the Parliament, its management, its professional support, and its position. And later: ▪ An unusual situation calls for adjustments in practice, open management, transparency, and respect for tasks. It is the will of the classes that are now involved in government cooperation and the promotion of the Generals to a new approach to the work in support of the general public in the country, especially by giving intensive support to the General Assembly and increasing its effectiveness. In fact, when I first read this, I suspected that there were left greens to organize their escape from informed ideas on tax issues to make it easier for them to swallow the course of the Independence Party for the next four years. It's been the day to the highest. During interviews, prime minister has retreated from his own suggestions, including those of the United States. ... abouta high income taxation. I did not expect, however, that the group would do the same about all other major issues in society, that they should also be on the basis of the Independence Party. V.E.G. However, prime minister and senators of the left green must accept that the fishing system and the remuneration of the article are just a matter of opinion and should therefore increase the discussion. If left green is gone, a substantial improvement has been made, e.g. The agreement on specific factors that would have to be fixed or taken down on the left green policy on the category's homepage by allowing President: It is also a temporary arrangement for allowing, and in part, it must be linked to the structure and fishing practices, and in part to the auction, in part to the areas of the country and rural areas, and to the commands to define ways for distribution. In fact, I have full faith in the highest. Prime Minister is referring to the Treaty's Treaty and to the importance of bringing big issues to the fore. In fact, I think I know her own fingerprints in that part of the government covenant. That's why she must, and at least the category and likely the Agency also, agree that it is best to postpone this bill and accept deportation so that we can achieve better convergence, including groups at councils, as well as to offer something more to the public's will, the nation's will. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Much of it misused in these matters. With the crumbling crew of the crown and the reduced oil prices, I'm not sure that this one year will end the development. But has such peace been tested during the election season, Madam President? No, you're not. Few have forgotten an uncooperative attempt to cross the backtrace of last spring's fishing fees, at the highest level. In fact, a seafaring minister did not have the courage to put the matter into his own hands. However, he is now presenting the matter and improving a person is the best thing to live, but as to how the matter has been presented, it is only discussed in the opinion of a second lower section, by permission of the president: ▪ One of my smaller points of criticism that there has not been enough time to work the bill well enough, as the bill's text shows that there has been no time in preparing the bill to do enough research. Similarly, there is a big problem that did not allow the time to go through the consultation process that the government has established through a so - called consultation puzzle. Is this particularly negative regarding how many serious comments were made in the reviews on the subject to the Committee? Similarly, the government had no consultation with the bill to stand up for government and showed no effort to reconcile on this fundamental part of the nation that needs stability, such as the entire Icelandic community. So many were words. The current fishing arrangements have been debated. On the one hand, there are many who consider the fee too high and burdensome, especially for medium and small productions. But I do allow myself to ask, " How much weight do I weigh for who? ' A lower pay rate in one area simply leads to less room for the state to cover expenses in other areas, perhaps spending more than the country's builders. It's simply not possible, so I mention it again, to discuss a very large pay-and-exploit team and break out of a perfect relationship with the total budget. It cuts into the eyes at the same time as the government, the more things it leans on, will cut down the budget for vulnerable groups like disability, plan to take on less income from our common resource. Never can be at peace with the council. It is true, however, that in part, the collected system has been faulty and built on old data and has not reflected the management environment of any time that can be shared, especially by a currency that flukes like ours. It is a step in itself to change the currency so that it reflects better on its individual circumstances. In fact, all classes have agreed. For a discussion of burdensome currency, it is proper to warn against reimbursement of an equally large and important sector in which selected persons are allowed to catch from the nation's limited resource based on the lowest sector of consumers. The article is very large, and the contribution of companies is very variable. Some struggle and may find it difficult to pay the price that is available today, while most people do a lot of hard work and shave to a considerable profit, such as the examples prove. Only last year, making men paid $23 billion for their money. To put it into context, it is twice the amount of money that will be taken out of the price of a cent to the disability that most politicians today seem to agree to be a great deal of justice, but many say is too expensive to allow it to happen in the next few years. It has also been held in this discussion that the agencies that have been in trouble are small and medium-sized enterprises. I think there might be something in there, but I also think there's a lot of simplicity. This is not necessarily a link between a small company and how well or badly it is run. While there is a need for general management of these sectors, such as all occupations, the whole system cannot be built on the possibility that all companies can always run. Such an arrangement is not in any other article in Iceland, Madam President. However, it should be acknowledged that it is in particular the social aspects of our fishing business that have been the problem, and therefore it is definitely necessary to get together on measures to ensure the development of relevant enterprises. However, it is safe to talk about sustainable fishing, as recommended in fish - control laws, despite the highest standards. The prime minister has in unsupervised inquiries this morning. The concept of sustainableity is based on the balance of three equally important factors, the environmental, the economic, and the community. The approved eating system laid the groundwork for a fishing government that was in agreement with the environment and over the years have made many changes that have strengthened the economic support, but the greatest efforts have been made to develop the fishing grounds in harmony with our society. We must all remember many examples of entire settlements that are upset by decisions taken from one factory or a few human beings. Therefore, looking for ways to support cultural or cultural development is essential to maintaining balance. Still, we can't agree to pay our bills to the worst companies. I don't think it's easy to defend small and medium-sized productions without any progress in making any profit in the large productions, such as the examples, not mismanaged. One way to ensure this is by making sure that the resources of the resource run to the settlement itself. Then, depending on the circumstances, they can decide how to strengthen their community, either by deforestation or by finding employment a different pathway of innovation, cultural tourism, and so forth. These little ones, they're all over the country, and they're even. Many in my district will gain much more from being able to build on a more varied business life and possibly an auction route that will lead to greater income coming into the Kingdom box, which thus encourages national or rural society. [[It's an auction route.]] We have far too many examples of how this urban disorder has been. We have also explained the national commission to fight for temporary sources. The majority of the nation's national standards have been given, and in many surveys they clearly stated what they want in this regard. That is certainly true in 1st pars. Fish control law which one owns the resource but what. Councilmen have also likely heard the skeptics and the legality of those who, in fact, doubt it and even say that such things cannot be done. It's important to stop at it once and for all. Therefore, I focus on the fact that with temporary agreements, both public views are being met and the provision is also being made to ensure a much greater sense of leadership and a better environment. Besides, I don't believe that the price of rights is found by a decision made by politicians at some closed price for some species of fish. I think, first of all, that there will never be any trust, and there is no right price for the value. The most natural way is by making the market decide the price in one way or another. It is actually a practice in all other sectors, an auction of literature for a certain time where fences can be built to prevent overcomplication, that all leakage from certain parts of the country and other factors, can be done. True, we wouldn't get the highest possible price, but that's okay. We do not expect to do so because we want to support the third support, which is the social part, sustainable. Madam President. Since this assembly, about 13% has been weakened by the euro. A reduction in gangs along with a reduction in fuel will move the output to an increase in income, probably 20 billion, and will put it in position to wait this year for us to make peace. However, it is the public in the country that will be affected when basic products rise, when the mortgages rise. It's the public. I'm about to finish my speech. I would have liked to go, like other members of the council here, in an article in Indriði, The H. of Þorláksson. I encourage members of Congress to read it and even encourage some members of the council to read it throughout the council. I'm going to end this article and make it my final comment, with the permission of a president: ▪ This intended Christmas gift to the richest members of society is commendable. The amount of money given to them every year in the years if the bill remains unchanged in the law is probably as high as what is needed to meet the standards of the unions for the increase in minimum wage. Dear senators. You have chosen. What way would you like to remain at peace in the community in the next few months?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u92	Madam President. That's what happened. The chairman of the United States, Logi Einarsson, said that the government was setting up in closed rooms of hunting fees. I just ask, "Have a why." A senator did not study this bill? What's all that nonsense out there? This is precisely how the calculation of fishing costs is being reinforced by the survival of each species, where information is provided in a special sheet from the government tax manager's accounts of the particular projection and from the Fishing Office on Galactic benefits. This is how each species is being used to obtain the value of each item, and then it is taken into account. Has a what? Since this bill is full of shit that politicians are planning to run a hunting fee, don't you think a senator would do it? And second of all, I'd like to ask who. A senator, who has previously heard of him from this platform that it is acceptable for some seabed company to head: What is the consequences if the fishing fees are to be over 12 billion in the next year compared to the rising rate of this small and medium-sized enterprise between 2017 and 2018, by 200% and even 300 percent? These small and medium-sized companies have been calling from far and wide across the country in poor seas that we will not be prepared for this. What's to be done? Will you take the right to practice eutrophication in these radios and send some benefits to the people who have had their livelihood by working around the seabed and serving it? It's a very strange approach. A senator who is responsible for the normal development of professional life in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u93	Madam President. Yes, along with others, I'm sure I'm responsible for the normal development of professional life and if anyone thinks that this arrangement is responsible, we simply don't agree. Who decide? Of course it's politicians. Now I've noticed why. A senator is very impressed with his leader, but she is hardly there to think that she had accepted her authority from a god, and from there the decision has come. Who decides that it must be prepared for 23 billion a year, not 14 or 12 or 18 or 40? Who decides that the cod should cost 6 k, 10 k, 14 k.? Is it some biological law? Is it some kind of physics? No, it's all the premiums. The rule is one. The other is to insert the variables into the algorithm, and it's decided, of course, here. Senator. At least she'll be there. to agree with me. And for the last thing. I'm here to tell you that it's highly abnormal in a major business, where there's a very big difference between the one that's making most of it and those who are having trouble in business, and amazingly surprising to set the criteria of the worst drivers. It is simply much healthier to aim at some average, but at the same time recognize that the system that we created and did not come from gods or anywhere else has led to the world's damage. We need to make up for it without having some compensation or alemus, but it's a legitimate advantage, including the people living in the West and East, so that they can live in their place and earn money from the resources that they have along with all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u94	Yeah, yeah. A senator speaks of government spending on hunting costs, and he has talked a lot about it in his talk that it is supposed to be an auction or a marketing route, that is the best way to get the most money out of the resource. The Marketing Way. Does this mean, then, that mammon should determine how to develop in the land and where the people's share will land? There's a mammon from the United States, the marketing route. It is now called the left category when the yesterday falls off. It is mammon, a market route that is by far the best way to divide access and resource to the nation. What a tragedy to hear! And knowing that in the last four years, there has been a quarter reduction in hookpower emissions, and during the past 12 years, the number of crop targets assigned to the cutout has decreased by 60%. With auctions and ideas of solidarity and rejuvenance and the Piranium in blending, there is a tremendous convergence, and this is a failure to support the settlements that follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u95	Madam President. I thought I had just said in my speech that we weren't offering market fees. On the other hand, I believed that the market would rather get the right amount. [[Up front.]] And I also said, "What?" A senator, if you can keep quiet for a moment, that fences could be built, could be prevented by a massive compression, it could be prevented from gathering in a few hands. There's no problem. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, we would have to give up a basic requirement, which, of course, would exist if it were one large auction. We've never spoken of it, we've talked about community support, which actually makes it impossible for us to talk about it as self-sustaining fishing, is sick, and we need to secure the settlements in the country. It is possible to do so without being asleep and awake just thinking about hook - up boats. You can see that they cannot be supported in any way other than making any payment on that structure. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u96	Madam President. I'm gonna ask you what. Logi You can't help it if you're Einarsson of the changes you've made here. Now I'm not going to discuss whether it's appropriate to overthrow the control system of fishing in the bill, which is now on the market, at least That it's a connoisseur, but I don't think that these transporters agree completely on what they're talking about. Enlightened here. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, president of Lurison, my surprise, that the 5% of those to be taken in the coming year, and then 5% of each year I expect, shall be distributed back to those who have the authority. It's going straight on. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson and the Conspiracy themselves have proclaimed. And that's why I ask: Is the carriers of this change a suggestion to speak for it, as did the chairman of the woodland, to take 5% but to distribute it back to those who have it, or to assign it to someone else in some other way, an auction, or what? I'm glad it's at least The harmony of the movers is that they agree on what the new proposal means, what it means, and what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u97	Madam President. Actually, what's really interesting to me is that. A senator will commit to some sort of hairstyle, but he will not go to the basics. When it comes to talking and writing articles on liberalism and the quality of the market, he is now a member of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u98	You're a team, you and a dog. paritaprevir Katrín's Þorgerður?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u99	Absolutely. This is open and, as I say, I guess the current government will just assign it to the same. However, the suggestion is that if we make peace over the next few weeks and months that it should be handled somehow differently - in the community, on auction - we open the way to a lengthy arrangement that is very important. But where I'm not sure that I and I were. A senator agrees because I don't think we fully debate the real identity of the resource. It has appeared to him many times. On the other hand, we put aside a paradox first, and we put the emphasis on its approval because it means at least that it will be approved. The hope that in this case the government can apply its own government contract, which specifically speaks of any major changes in a system that must be settled in the future. It can not be just to make the left green easier to swallow the tax laws of the Independence Party. There's got to be a good deal for everything. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u100	Madam President. That's fine. There is the possibility that the transporters will not agree on what it involves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u101	Yeah, I told you earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u102	No, we're not. [[Up front.]] It would be worth one Mass, then, that the presidents of the Archipelago and the Controversies would come to a Conspiracy meeting and agree on what this means. I'll have to ask what. Einarsson The same questions as what you're asking. Logi The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir did not rely on her answer to the following question: Looks sharp. A senator would say that a man with a 1 billion. K. ... anditpays500you. K. In one year, a reduction in his taxes occurred when he receives 500 of you in two years. K. ... andpayit 250yous. K.? Is paying taxes on the individual being? Yeah, or no. See what? When it comes to the pressures of hunting fees, does a senator have no connection with the survival of the seabed? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u103	Madam President. Although we may express ourselves in varying degrees, we transporters agree perfectly with our proposal. [[Up front.]] It may well be, and it may well be my fault. However, this does not do much harm to society, although the opposition to government is inconsistent. However, there is a blundering problem for stability in this country that there is here two transport plans for the management, that there are disagreements in one case after another, and that they do not go on. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator made an attempt to become a bit philosophical, and certainly it is true that the tax rate is the same. However, I spoke of an article that is capable of paying $23 billion. The amount of money you receive should be more readily available. I haven't talked about any percentages. That's exactly what people avoid in this bill, and that's what we should do. That's what Þorláksson has said we should do. I'm not afraid of that discussion, we were both on sociology track, we're similar at math, but we both know how to do this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u104	A respectable president. It's still in the river about math knowledge, because the guy standing here chose a course in high school, depending on where we remembered math, so we don't have a good chance. But it's nice to hear it. A senator will discuss only this change. It has been made clear that it seems rather vague, and many mistaken, so that is fine. At least I'm made to know what I'm talking about, and I haven't really been able to get to the bottom of it yet. I find a little special to listen to. For many reasons, the senator will always discuss the vast number of fishing companies that fight in the banks, which are the worst of the operating companies. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Is he to believe that the companies that are evil, marine, and fighting in banks, and in various opinions, are all the worst drivers, as he repeated repeatedly in his speech? I'd so much like to take advantage of this opportunity, a respectable president, to ask about this adjustment in order to understand it better. What income is it to collect in hunting fees and to finance the fund here? How much money is that? What fishing costs are the ones to live up to this? Well, maybe. One senator explained to me what income is meant by the fund, the building fund for the part of the country? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u105	Madam President. It's the income beyond what you expect it to be, the 7 billion. It may well be, well, well, well. A senator, that I have come up with a clumsy word by saying the worst of all. Maybe I should have said those who have the worst conditions. You're absolutely right, and I'm gonna apologize to the person for that. What I'm simply saying is that it's completely crazy to aim at it. However, there is a completely independent problem that needs to be handled. We simply do this by adjusting the currency so that every year those walking away with billions of dollars put more together and there is more money to work for the worse would also be for the communities who also have the potential to build for the future possibly on other careers than just crafts. The Icelandic fishing village is not so old that it is bound for all eternity to the same extent. Oncoming east and west, one sees sealands that have struggled with trouble and that have been rather boring to look upon as monotonous has blossomed in recent years, including the U.S. with the arrival of tourism, with the arrival of young people who have made a field of culture and art and who have created a more colorful and enjoyable community. I think it is far better to think that the town governments, the rural administrations, the national components themselves, can do only more to cause more damage so that they can develop the settlement that they believe is more likely to exist in the future, which is also based on a more diverse environment, so that we do not face a major crisis when one layman wakes up in a pessimistic mood or even in a bad mood.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u106	A respectable president. To face what we have to say. Sometimes a senator is like being a real scientist on a poetry night. You may be trying to get some facts, but why? A senator uses beautiful words, he is a man of the word, and he likes to paint his words with strong colours and pictures. But there are no great facts in these air - conditioned speeches. Senator. I was asking who. A senator into the fund's income, not how beautiful he felt in the country, for the bill refers to Article 10. these songs. They're supposed to raise the income that is under the fund. And what? Senator, if you at least teach me one ear: 10 g. is a provision that expires on December 31, 2019. That's why I hope to do it. A senator respects me because I don't understand what income money is to be made after the provision of the provisional arrangement that he will follow. How, then, are these to be financed - and like beautiful colors on houses on the land, please?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u107	Madam President. I'm going to pray now, please. A senator, even though he has appeared here last week as a lot of stories about various things, letting himself know what metaphors I take, or what examples I take, or how I express myself. I simply answered the question in the first sentence: You're lowering what we get. [[Up front.]] You're down 5 billion. Can we agree, then, that this item is at least in this fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u108	After 31st December 2019?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u109	That's what we're talking about, so we can make more peace with each other. Yes, it can be quite an interesting experience to go to a poetry night with real scientists. Like a former financial minister, who takes them far off, you see that being a mathematician and a poet is a fine thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u110	V.E.G. President. As usual, when we talk about fishing, fishing, or fishing, there's life in the rag, and it's a business that's extremely important to Iceland, all Iceland. It is tempting to cross the country and to divide the country into areas and to say that it is more important there than in the other areas, but it really means all the land, the whole country, so much. I come from an ideal situation that has more and less life bread for the fishing road and agriculture, where sea transport is extremely important, where there are few big companies and so many small, a few small ones. I'm sorry, but I don't think this bill does much for this group unless, yes, it's possible that the calculations used and the payments are closer. It is perfectly clear that it is possible. I think the so-called large-funding, there's no really well-defined word, growing pretty good from this, some of them at least, I'll go over it more closely afterwards. With regard to the intermediate size, I'm going to quote one fine designer or person involved in a business such as a company that pays about 100 million at hunting costs. He said: "This discount, this payoff target, a maximum of 6 million, does very little for me or my company, does not really matter to whether we live or die, but it certainly matters for the person who pays only 10 million for the hunt and receives up to 6 million. I wish, of course, for those to whom this is important, because hunting costs are actually a very special tax, an extra tax on the one industry in the country as a resource, while there's a lot of industry that uses resources in one way or another. I miss a little bit that there was no more debate about the ideas. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson has submitted to the Congress Hall on Parliamentary Documents and offered proposals, 55th case on resource definition and 35 cases on resource and resource costs. I think it's good for us to watch all this resources of Iceland and ask us if there's one thing we've got over everybody, if we could find a business on our resources, and if it's not natural that everyone who uses the resources will be able to access them. What justifys a single profession's access to a resource? We've been arguing for years whether to pay extra taxes. I don't think it's wise that the travel service pays extra tax, but it may well be that it should be paid for the use of the resource, like a cell phone company or other companies using something defined as a resource. Well, then we certainly need to define, and we'll find out exactly what these resources are. There's something we should do because to me it's a very reasonable matter that not just one profession pays for the use of resources. I agree with those who have criticized their consultation with this bill. Even if the committee has found this many times, there is now nothing in itself that leads to this matter. There was one press conference held in the fishing department that I remember being invited to and visited. They were just explaining the main ideas in the bill. I think it's a misunderstanding that this bill and the changes it makes reduce the compression in this article. I think that's a big misunderstanding, hopefully I'm wrong. I think compression will simply continue, because the changes are not that great. I'll come to a certain report after which I got into my hands today that may well have more senators, I have no idea. Another factor we need to consider is that there is evidence that more and more are being exported from unmanned fish in Iceland, saying that they will take him to a foreign country to do their work. Of course, if there is a trend in progress, my valuable creation will be in Iceland. This may be explained by the fact that people only see that it is less expensive to do this than to produce the product in Iceland, which is, of course, very bad. This bill does nothing to help those who are struggling to keep markets or to keep the Icelandic logo abroad. Iceland has had an international advantage when it comes to marine products for quality, for its ability to produce quality products with modern technology. Now, however, our main competitive nations are Russians and Norwegians who support their beautiful fishing grounds, who have a state-engineered seabed, whether with indirect or direct support, even with a distribution of resources without having to pay for it, etc. We're competing with this environment, which includes... The cost of pay and oil is also much smaller than in Iceland, so the competitive environment is a little crooked. As a result, you wonder, " Is it wise to lay on such high taxes, high cost of fishing, on these sectors at the same time as the competition is increasing, and the gap between Icelandic and foreign sources is shrinking? ' We must not take over the development and innovation and technological development of the Icelandic fishing industry. If that happens, which is sadly indicated, including. According to the report which I quote afterwards, that the opportunities of the companies, and now I'm going to specifically say in B-fish development, be limited or be less involved in investing or changing, it will certainly affect technology companies as well. The vast majority of our projects in the fishing industry have enjoyed working with the Icelandic companies and enjoy developing tools and tools to cooperate with them because they have had the courage and ability to invest. In turn, if the ability of the companies to participate in this is reduced, the more advanced technology companies have been exporting this knowledge that has been developed in Iceland in cooperation with European fishing companies. Technology companies will be able to sell this knowledge to Russians and Norwegians or others. The reason I'm referring to this major industry, which is the novelty of the fishing industry, is that it is directly linked to the results and efficiency of the marine fishing industry. I suppose there are about 90% or at least the largest part of the companies that produce tools and tools for the fishing route, which are in innovation and evolution, which are here on the southwest corner or around this area, near the vicinity. Most of them are here. You can mention companies like Marel, Curio, Skagga 3X and all of this. Of course, there is a very powerful station, such as. in the Icefjord, which is extremely important there, cool, great company. There is also some development I think of in Akureyri and in the east, the largest part is here in Reykjavík and in the Southwestern district. I'm worried about these companies. I'm worried that if they leave the Icelandic project, they'll be more difficult to get partners unless they're abroad. If so, we may be shrinking even more of the advantage we have had. A respectable president. I've been over the competition. I'm just going to quote the report I mentioned earlier. This is a summary of the management of marine vehicles in the East, Ardasvík, the Western Islands, the Snæfellsnes, and the West. This is from Delotte for a company in the article, let's get it straight. It also states: that between 2016 and 2017, there have been 89% of England's Snæfells and the West Fjords, 84% in Grinsavík. At the same time, hunting costs as a share of profits have been 74% in Snæfells and the West Fjords, 83% in Grinsavík, over 35% in the West, and 19% in the East. Of course, this difference is explained by the composition of the sector. The bodyfish industry is much bigger and stronger or more extensive, let's put it this way, in Grindavik, e.g. And at Snæfellsi's, and on the east side, and in the West, where is more mingled. So we can see that even if we want things to be different, we have some problems ahead of us. It is clear that companies in bullfishing and operating are faced with great challenges. I think it's better in the up-to-date management companies where the roll is simply higher, it's a different kind of development, but the bodyfish industry has had to fight tremendously with this competitive party I mentioned earlier, which is a government scholarship, even though, of course, they're also in the water for some extent. I'm going to mention here one more number from this report that is of great importance. Fishing as a share of EBITDA, for example, are less than 23% on Snæfellsnes and the West, and 47.5% in Grindasvík. This is really the product of the enterprises before they have taken into account interest in interest interest sales and interest income, tax payment, and abduction. So it's getting really tight. In effect, the conclusion of this report, if there is something in it, that we would consider, of course, that Deloitte is a powerful and good company, which knows exactly what it is doing, is that these companies have become very narrow and hard to see if they can really say that the bullfish industry is self-sustained and can carry the fishing costs intended for her with this bill and the changes that are available. A respectable president. I've got some speculation that I'm going to throw out here and maybe some answers to them sometime from a professional committee or secretary. What data were available and applied first, the calculation of these fishing costs, i.e. What was the basis for this 33% standard? And this, of course, is what information was available on the decision on the person discount. Why is that figure chosen, and what did it mean? Did the procreation analysis have been performed by pooled analysis? I think that there are very different ways in which these fishing groups can actually pay in advance to affect their ability to make investments and all that I mentioned earlier. Was this watched by a different sort of classification? You can't say that fishing is just one color - colored article. It's so varied and so many categories in it must be watched with them glasses, with their eyes. I also wondered, because here people have been talking about raising or lowering these charges and perhaps not a good thing to put our hands on it: Are we really talking about total recovery from hunting fees down by 4How5 billion? Is that the result? Then you wonder: " Has it been established? Does it decrease most of any particular type of fishing group? Likely, it falls considerably in the smallest of the characters ever made. It's going down a little bit in the middle, but this isn't doing it for the people that have been said here, I think. Then there's a question about a bigger one. Then I ask if the effects of such high hunting costs they are, in fact, determined by the need for investment. Have you considered how much money you have to invest in the industry, both in the coming years and in the fishing process? Fortunately, he was very old, but evolution, of course, continues. If we're going to keep the competitive advantage that we've had, which I've put into before in my speech, we're going to have to give these companies room to invest. Traveller's the biggest industry today. We've talked about it here and luckily and hopefully it's going well. But there are flashes of light, just like in every industry. We must assume that the growth will at least slow down at some point. Maybe it'll work. So, what field of work are we going to establish? We have to look to the future in this. Then I also wondered if the resource costs are too high. Now I know we can talk about it for weeks what's high and what's low when resources come up. I'm just looking at these numbers that are in this report from Deloitte where it's obvious that the basic fishing costs are too high for the body-fishing companies. I think it's most natural to go back to what I mentioned at the outset regarding the suggestions before the council. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson, the first carrier, has more suggestions on these, of course, which suggest that we go to define the resources and then decide if we will accept resource expenditures or run taxes or what we are going to call them, from the users of the resources or those we use them, or if we are not going to do so. And if we say yes, are we going to let everyone pay for using resources? How do we do that? How do we do this in a simple, transparent, and efficient way? Our belief is that it is the easiest thing to do with some form of credit to income tax. Then some may say that cheating and cheating are easy. If so, we must respond in some way. But it's all too complicated a system we've actually created about the hunting costs. I think we should be afraid to take this discussion and ask, "Who are the resources? Who wants to use them? Is that what they're supposed to pay for? How and how much? This is something I think is just fair. I would like to state whether members of the Parliament can agree that it is special that one profession using resources is paying for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u111	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask him more about what I understood he was saying. I understood why. A member of the Parliament so that the fishing costs could result in the deportation of agriculture. In fact, I heard a meeting held at the High School of Fishing, U.S.A. One ocean leader explained to the bill we're discussing with stakeholders, and then some two said, "Well, we're gonna have to make sure the industry doesn't just leave the country. " But isn't it? A senator, that the fishing fee merely hangs on the fishing, fishing, and the fishing business does not operate in international competition, but is it protected by law? The price does not work on fish industry and fish products, and it does not make any additional expense available to them. Is it not more likely that when a vatfish is rising from abroad or when fish are removed from the land, it is because the value and labor force are cheaper in foreign lands than when the amount of money is weakened reduces exports because it becomes more efficient here? Is it not true that fishing has nothing to do with it, but does it have all the money to do with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u112	A respectable president. The crown has everything to do with it, says why. Senator. It is tempting to go to a centenarian debate and review the words of the former chairman of the German Party of Silfratu during the weekend of his review of the euro and all of that. But that's how it is in Iceland that fishing and farming are, of course, closely connected, and many companies, especially in the bullfish industry, are fishing and also winning the fish, even if this is not the case. Although the fishing cost is not put into practice itself, this, of course, has an overall impact on the business of the companies and their ability to invest. If the fish are leaving the country, there may be multiple reasons. Surely it has something to do, of course, let's not go anywhere hiding with it. It can also be a higher cost, a number of costs in Iceland that also matter. The cost of pay may be higher than in Poland or Russia or anywhere else. It's also that when the fishing rate gets really heavy, even if it's only in the fishing part, he's obviously gonna have to get the hang of it too. As we look at the fishing section, competition is very uneven, e.g. when it comes to the cost of oil. Even though it is down now, for example, the cost of building is far more expensive in Iceland than in Norway and Russia. There is a difference between equality, both pay and fishing costs, with oil costs and so on. It's not really comparatorable. If we were to set the wave together, we'd have to figure out what to do, which I don't think would be very popular in Iceland, some kind of support, because the state of the fishing route in Norway and Russia is competing with us, whether it's in the fishing or whatever. The balance is not present, the competition is balanced by the total cost in Iceland that is quite different from that in those countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u113	Madam President. I think we agree on that, though, me and him. A senator, that Icelandic fishermen are not in international competition. It is the business of international competition that counts. If I understood why. The senator correctly admitted that some of the cost could be calculated, for it is obvious. It is also relevant when we run our home and, of course, the building, except for them in the wrong way. I want to ask you why. A senator how he can support himself, if this bill becomes law and we don't change the fishing system, a new system. So those who want to go into the fishing business have to buy either a boat with a nice price, or rent from those assigned to a host from the state, also a costly price. Today, we are renting a kilo of cod, according to Fish Room, at 175k. This bill assumes just under 14 bucks. a pound. There's sky and ocean between here. It is, of course, true, because there is not much to offer at once. A lower price could be achieved if larger amounts were offered at a time, such as. In the Faeroe Islands. Entries received 40 bucks. a kilo of cod at his tender emissary. At least it's an uneven game. How can you tell? For example, is there a recent candidate in this article?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u114	A respectable president. This, of course, is one of the big questions. Let's start with the rookie, how it works. I think it's totally wrong to imagine that innovation can happen through some kind of revocation and then by auction or something like that, only if one intends to rule out some groups from offering one. It is clear to me that money groups in this article are likely to offer higher ones than others. At one time, I had serious doubts about the beach fishing system. I think the beach fishing system was good, though. There, of course, humans have been able to start at a difficult time - a big investment. However, people have been able to start there, and there are cases of men who went there and bought medical resources. Surely they are expensive, that is perfectly clear, for those who get over them at the second table. However, it may be a part of promoting innovation and more doubt about how much compression can develop, how much humans can have individual resources, and also explain how the relation or possession can be, and how much they can be. A sense of compression may be, preferably, what is bad for the newcomer. In terms of the lack of international competition for fishing or fishing, of course it is that if we review a number of big and medium-sized companies, these are the companies that are in the fishing and processing process. Of course, they are in international competition, though they may be said to be a little special, they are in international competition at the expense, of course. Of course, when pay and oil cost are much higher in Iceland than in Norway or Russia, it is a competition for who can catch the fish most expensive or with the most economic value. That's for sure. I'm going to give you a few companies: Science, Woo Bear, Fish Seafjord, Gunnery, Odda Patrecksður, Valagn Ólagasvik, O.F. These are all companies that are both in hunting and in the process. These are small enterprises, medium and large. They compete fully in a subsidized seabed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson for his speech. I agree that it's important that we live in the best interests of the marine environment so that the article can continue to be practical. Happily, we have seen that the system we have developed - and a lot of people have come to build it - is very good in the big picture. It has been not just the developers who have done their part but also fishermen and commercial workers, and I want to name politicians as well. Each class of politicians has had to make difficult decisions, whether 1983, through the induction of the saying system, or with the free exodus that the left groups did in their time and are now often criticized within their own ranks. However, it was a successful step that was taken to promote a measure of healthy management instincts and to provide this great economy, to strengthen the structure of plants, not just the big ones, but the smaller ones. As a result, we have also seen it - much the same as it did for the crown, certainly, it cannot be released - from collapse that the sea bus has improved its own financial status by 341 billion. He has paid over 80 million in money, reduced his debt value by 86 billion, and invested for 95 billion, especially in recent years. I think this is a great improvement, especially this time to invest in the article. It comes from secondary jobs, increases innovation and research and development in other secondary jobs. We need to see that there is mainly an increase in the number of jobs there, not in hunting and processing. Me and what. The senator's opinion of how we should go to the currency, and I'll be there to that later. But I would like to ask him if he believes that the government has done its job to make things right. Did she take important steps to try to make peace across groups? And the other: Is he in favor of temporary innovation agreements or contracts made for the access to the resource between state and state making?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u116	V.E.G. President. That's right, and I agree with what. A senator's desire to make investments in the fishing road had been great, and the need for investment was huge. It is also good to remember that in spite of large numbers and large writing in the crash years, the nation likely lost a single mention of fishing roads and agriculture. They had better returns than in most places, but they lost a lot of money in commerce, services, and banking sector. But when it comes to whether or not we're supposed to have new contracts, I say, "Yes, I'm all for choosing new contracts that have a built - in sense of security for those who enjoy them. We can, of course, debate, think about how long it should last, how it should be replaced, etc. That's a lineup that really needs to be discussed. But this government has not done anything to try to settle this matter, rather than anyone else in this process. It may seem that it is difficult to reconcile the management of a limited resource, such as the sea surface. It's a limited resource, we know it. It is natural for others to reach out for it, but perhaps it is not. We can also discuss how the results are to be divided and all of them. First, we need to make clear that this is the nation's resource. We need to explain that in the constitution, I think that's the only reason to turn into the constitution. Then we need to increase our sense of expectation in the article about who or how we are going to get the product and, of course, how to pay for the uses. It needs to be foreknowable, too. You can't be stirring this thing all the time back and forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u117	Madam President. In many respects, the middle - class and restoration are very different, especially in terms of the currency. We want the market route. We trust the markets or take the auction route, as some call it. Hv. A candidate mentioned certain aspects, such as temporary innovation agreements, that resources should be paid and, in some way, the resource restrictions of a constitution, and that are intended to be considered for the article. In rather calm and balanced conversation of different categories, you sense a thread that was not searched for by the government; a thread that could have been picked up and used. It could have been used to get people to the table and say: All right, views are different, but we can talk to each other in the most creative, sisterlike manner, and review certain aspects of the temporary agreements, that we get together on resource costs and perhaps some way of building up funds, infrastructure funds, for the country's settlement? I'm not asking why. There's a senator talking about the forward party, not at all. But I'm sorry to hear it. The senators deny their own proposals, where temporary negotiations were attempted. I recall that the proposal was made at 23 years of age, so in some way, such suggestions have been made by the Agency, with the left green, in older categories than Weunning, and that is the thread that I feel is the government - it's a sin that we shouldn't have such a government - should have taken the initiative to seek reconciliation for this fundamental work, in order to secure the nation's partnership, but also in order to ensure long - term safety and stability, not just for a short time after the political wind's success, but for the overall stability of the seas. How important it is that we try to get close to it so that we can make peace with them! I am glad that different groups can find some threads in a common direction. That's what we're supposed to take advantage of. I encourage the government to take advantage of what has been said here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u118	A respectable president. I don't know if we can get together about it unless we're using the way the government groups used to form this government, i.e. to throw everything they disagree on aside and then just negotiate how they change their seats. I think we have some new contracts that are good. In fact, it is not like this, although it has been made up of the development of these new contracts, the 2010 Commission suggested that this approach be considered specifically. I think that's a good thing. And most of the article at that time at the time were in favor, getting leadership instead of always being unsure about how the operation would be next year or the next year, how hunting costs would be, and all of this. Whatever the sector is, it's hard to be confused and not know much about the rest. That's why I think it would be better if we could take that thread back up again. I agree with what. A senator says that there's a way that I think most people can sit down and talk about. But I'd like to say something about the resource fees. I reiterate what I said in my speech here: I'm serious about it. I don't think it's possible that one profession pays for the use of the resource. I miss what I'm doing. Congress officials did not comment on whether it is normal for them to do so. Is it natural that a person using a resource, whether it is called water, energy, air, electrical waves, or our country or whatever it is, there is no need to pay for the use of the resource, but those who are catching fish need to do so? I feel like it's missing in this discussion. I think if we can get her to say, "We're going to define our resource, we're going to tell her who's using it, and if we're going to pay for it, we're gonna have to start talking about all the other numbers we can use to go to a building fund or something like that. This may make it easier for us to get together if we were talking about the whole thing, all the resources, not just one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u119	Madam President. I find it very important that the bill we discuss here should be dismissed, so we can discuss it better and try to make more peace with the subject. It's not dangerous at all. The only thing that happens if we let the current law hold for one more year is that it pays between 11 and 12 billion dollars. In hunting fees, but not seven, as the rest suggested. It can handle it, so there is a price of oil to be weighed down and the dollars become ill. You see, the bill has far more changes than the highest. Sea diva minister and what. The members of the board of directors want to be left alone. A clear example of conversion is found in the setting of the bill. Instead of the wording of a target language in the current law, such as the president's permission: ◯ To ensure a meaningful share in the profit of marine resources, a bill in which we now address: ▪ To provide the whole nation with a direct and visible share in the fishing of crops. As we consider further, this is a major change in goals involving collections of hunting fees. So it is no longer to ensure the nation's share in the future, but only a share that is direct and visible. This is a fundamental change and revolution of the core thinking of the law as approved in 2012, with the idea of a fair exchange of resource resources between the nation and those granted a license to use the resource. The talk about this bill is the highest. Sea diva minister and what. In this case there is little change and no increase or decrease in hunting costs, but there is an accounting for new data, so that fishing costs for 2019 will be calculated according to information from 2017 instead of 2016 as expected by the current legislation, and that the proportion, 33% of the resource resources to go to the country, is just as always. It is even stated that there is a ratio set up by the left control and that the current government wants to maintain. This proportion has been adopted at the General Assembly of various governments in 2009 to 22018. But it's an illusion, and it's a game to talk. I find Indriði H. Þorláksson's words very appealing in an article published in the reactor today, which he says, with the permission of a president: In this regard, it is falsely stated that the bill contains the same condition and implies that it is normal. The period of choice, however, is far from normal, and it will be said that fishing fees reflect some agreement on their sum. The first part of the period is a year when hunting fees were imposed, not as resource fees, but by security workers in the Ministry and thus only a small part of the cost of oceanic roads. Then there were two years where hunting costs were certainly thought for resource costs but had failed to reach the target of the existing law. The last part of this period is a year in which the interests of plant owners have returned to control and the cost to a small amount. Madam President. An article with the bill starts with trying to mislead the public with such numbers. So it is now that it is the product calculated by the ratio which is of utmost importance. For example, for example, 33% of the small ones do something very small. Another misleading, unscrupulous presentation is when the authors of the hunting bill specifically side with the equality and sex exchange markets in order to argue that they should not weigh the profits of fish farming on the decision of fishing fees. It says this in the bill's report, by permission of the President: ▪ Landing demand has generally been more important than women's hand. Then, in recent years, women have been far more visible in fishing. It is noted that using a bill this is not suggested to include marine growth as part of the calculus of a hunting fee that, according to this, would be involved in the work of women rather than of men. So many were words. But, Madam President, the fish industry doesn't pay for fishing and never has. The increase or reduction in fishing costs has no effect on fish management. Only the quantity of fish is involved in the production of fish for fish and in the price of fish, for the price of caught fish is free. Just fishing costs do not affect how many fish are withdrawn from the sea, so they do not feed on fish. V.E.G. In the introductions on the bill, a seaman minister stressed that it was the catch that should pay the fishing costs, not the industry. This misleading presentation is misleading people, since industry has never paid for hunting expenses. However, fishing costs have been weighed into the progress of the fish industry. It is done even. to avoid developing the incentive for making companies to move profits into the processing process and thus affect the reduction of the fishing costs. This is what's gone from the hunting bill. This trigger will be real, and pressure from all types could develop that those who have an opportunity to increase their profits in the process will also have lower fishing costs and less pay for sailors. And it's incredibly lame to use sensory reasoning in this misleading way to justify calculation of hunting costs. I allow myself to say that this is just what those who want to do with everything will protect themselves from economic gain. President. At the same time as a marine diffusion minister proposed a bill on the reduction of hunting fees, the European Commission published a comparison of fishing fees in Iceland and the Faeroe Islands under the heading: 'What's up with auctions in the Faeroe Islands?' The hosts know that they have begun an invitation on parts of the quatane. The conclusion of a fishing business was that the average cost was higher in Iceland or about 9.3 k. per kilogram here compared to 6.9 k. ... apoundin the Faeroe Islands. Now I suspect that the organization of the fishing business is hiding the truth in average numbers. You see, most of the Faeroe Islands are in the ocean, but in Iceland, bottomfish is a lot bigger. Usually, a cow's bottom fish is much more valuable, so it carries a much higher catch. For example, in cod, fishing costs are 19 times higher than those on the rocks of the country. To understand this and to be sure, I have repeatedly asked the European Commission to send me or print their calculations down on species, not just one average. I have no answer, and I suspect the organization will be waiting for the approval of the fishing bill before these calculations appear. I hope he doesn't think I'm right, but I'm still waiting for an answer. According to official statistics, this is the case: In April, May, June, and August this year, a total of 15% of the island's quotas in the Faeroe Islands. The result was: The cod cow went from 38.7 ice creams. K. It's 180% higher than we expect in the bill we're discussing here. Actually, there's a catch in the Barents, where we don't expect any hunting fees, either in this bill. It's all about the fishing here at Iceland or the home center. The carbon surging took place at 8.8 a.m., but the bill went to the station. A seafaring minister assumes that the state collects 57 dollars. That's a big difference of 1,444%. A piece of mackerel took the deliveries to 89.9k. But the greater part suggests that Icelanders collect 3K. and 55 pennies. The difference is 2,432%. It's such a difference, Mr. President, that it's totally unacceptable to let him lie blurred. It looks like the highest. Ministers and ministers. Councilmen dare not speak of this great difference between what flows into the treasure of the Faeroes and then into our government fund. No one speaks of the fact that the Greenlandians are also preparing invitations on markets and that the Norwegians are taking steps in that direction these days. We must never forget this: the people on the island. It is in the law, and it has repeatedly confirmed the Supreme Court. We can change the system whenever we want. It takes only the decision of the Generals to do so. I don't think we'll ever agree on fishing our resources until we publish part of the quatane, mainly in the aim of equalizing access to the marine resource and making it easier for innovation and a temporary agreement to be made to those who are allowed to use the resource. At the time of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the United States and the VG were doing good work on resource issues and one of the results published in the resource policy report from that time was this, with the permission of a president: ▪ Concomitant version of a special product for a specific period of time and the collection of excess resources requires a specialisation; both the primary market for which the state will assign specialisations on the basis of signals and the markets, while the fish management bill allows for all agreements to be passed through the communication council. It refers to a bill that was then discussed. I'll continue, with President's permission: It is an important arrangement, especially if business restrictions are cut off by patents. The market has an important twofold role, however, to ensure access to the article in accordance with the criteria of objective and beneficial intervention on the basis of equality and the publication of the market assessment itself on the scope of the resource resource resource that the patents provide. This was now our common conclusion in the United States and the Left Green. Mr. President. I'm just going to take a quick look at the policy of the Controversy in the marine waters and then review VG's policy on the case. The union policy is like this, by permission of the President: The U.S. nation is to receive a full resource payment in the fishing industry. A good way to do this is to put out a message to the public in order to ensure the total price of the country's common resource. Substantially distributed in labour markets to moderate time in a transparent manner. New fish stocks and an increase in dinners should be sent out immediately. The Consequences stress: Health guidelines on the future fishing management in Iceland with employment freedom, equality, regionalisation and newer forms, working with all means against pollution of the sea, and acidification of the sea, to improve discussions about potentials opened up in the EU regarding the exploiting of marine products in Iceland. For all marine products in the European market, the total tax freedoms are available. reevaluate and support the coastal fishing system. This was registered policy of the Conspiracy. But this is made clear in the VG policy of the case, by permission of the president: ▪... step distinctions between different categories and productions, as we would like to do in the tax system, in which there is a difference between the economic balance and the profits of the large productions and the smaller productions. Fishing will thus inevitably be taken into account, but those who intend to build up the article and pay a fine wage for sailors will gain a competitive shot at others. VG wants the economy and trade of seafood to spread best in the community but not in the hands of a few faunas who only care for the temporary growth of their time and take community responsibility in a light bed, as many examples prove... [[Hear, hear.]] And first what. The director of the trade committee calls out: 'Hear, hear, and ask the question: Why is it then handled so well in these suggestions? A senator has served here? It would have been easy to give discounts without letting him walk over the big ones too. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Madam President. Time passes so fast, and I have so much left of this talk. But now it's good for me to come over and over in the 2nd. to discuss the matter. I'll continue to quote VG's documented policy. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Each project has a greeting recommended by a seafaring minister, based on advice from the Institute of Marine Research. VG wants a breakfast of the present form to be canceled in steps and goodbye reassigned on the basis of community interest, country and employment. [[Up front.]] VG gives particular attention to the growth of coastal fishing. Reassignment is a temporary arrangement of Allowing, and it should be partly linked to the development and fishing methods, and, on the other hand, in part, to the land and rural areas, and to the Member States invited to define ways of distribution. [[What?]] Then we continue to discuss these basics, which are temporary contracts, markets, and that the rural communities and settlements in the country are especially enjoying the profits. This rhymes very well with what we've been offering, and I say for myself, Madam President, if the government had said, "We're going to take the VG road, what do you say? then I would have said, "Yes, I am ready at once." There is a lot of harmony with the class policy, and there are certain steps that VG wants to take, which I deeply agree with. And on both sides an invitation is spoken of, which provides a principle when it comes to public rights or tasks to companies. This is true whether it is large projects, transport special requirements, emissions and frequency fields. The prerogative of the traditional fishing industry is an exception. It violates common fair - minded views and viewpoints of equal policy. But now it's true that when the Conspiracy, exorbitant, and Piratars provide a warning to the bill, in case the deportation proposal should be dropped, the head of professional roads says that they describe freedomism and that we are offering outsurrections. But even though all these classes, like VG, offer out the quatan in one way or another, we decided, since there is no more to the idea of making a temporary agreement, that is, that is, of course, much. Congress officials focus on doing and have been discussed many times in this Assembly Hall, up and down. And that the fishing fee goes to the rural areas to support the national sector has also contributed more than that of members of Congress at some point. The decline between years of hunting costs will be less than 4 billion, if the bill is legal. The head of the trade committee calls it liberalism to want temporary contracts and reassignments or to offer out 1/20 of the quatans each year to try to obtain higher prices and give a chance for recruitment, allowing the national contributions that have carried the cost of expeditation and economic management in the article to benefit money by strengthening national parish programmes. But she calls it the left political bitch having the hunting fee as the lowest and bringing the already existing ones to the talons for the future. On the other hand, it is in my mind that the thin right policy of wanting to have a privileged group leave the box year after year for a blow and at the same time prevent a new replacement. Let us consider, Madam President, how recent action is being carried out and how the administrative part suggests that it will be in that government period. Yes, the recruits have to rent a quota of what the government has given them - at a very expensive price. That's the way it is, Madam President. But I will be back on the rosary, for I am not halfway through the talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u120	President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. What I'm wondering is what I'd like to ask you. A senator is whether she can help me to understand what the administrative point is doing by making it a great deal of effort to get it done right now. I realize that the law runs through next year, but it's to make it easy to extend the law, as we know, unchanged. So you wonder, because the government puts great emphasis on how to communicate and to do things in agreement and did it for writing about it, though, several sentences in its government covenant, why she chooses to ignore the opportunity she has to discuss with other political parties, who are then in the political stand. Thus, in some respects, it is more than expected to be on behalf of the fishing road at this time, at a time when the Crown's gangs have fallen to about 10 to 15 percent, depending on the time limit. Oil prices are going down. So there are some factors that help with the problems at least The government thinks the project is in. I'm not going to reduce the fact that there may be some failures that don't have it too good, but in the same way, there are a lot of people who seem to be doing it in an absolute way. Well, maybe. Is there something that a senator can help me to understand?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u121	Madam President. Of course, this should be discussed with the highest level of conversation. A sea chief minister and a government minister, because there is no hurry and there is no danger. When this summer was decided - or I assume it was won in summer because there were all other ideas here in spring - there was no consultation with the government. This is shown in a paper with the bill who had roads and problems with the bill. It wasn't the government situation. I'm worried that sponsors have a lot to say about how things are now growing. It's not supposed to be like that. That's what worries me. They prefer to tear things down, make a scene loud, fight, fight, fight, and trouble, and try to make anything suspicious that is critical rather than sit down and talk it over and say, "All right, let's extend, and it's not gonna happen in this year. And try to find some harmony, because there are much more basic and profound changes in the bill than people want to be, even though it's just, like I went over in my speech, my goal article, the change in it, and then this 33% proportion that people talk about being a self-centered thing. How did they figure that out? [[The president calls.]] Why were we to aim at those nine years, from 2009 to 2018? Why wasn't it on the basis of 2012◯2018? Would that have been different? [[The president calls.]] Why are we taking in a year in which there was almost no hunting fee to view these things?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u122	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and meditation he gave, who were such fine ones, but a person is still even closer in himself to the mind of the ruling parties. But the question may have been too much to ask. A senator to identify him. I'm really happy that I did what I did. The director of this bill, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, is in the hall and is alert and makes a special effort not to interrupt the speakers. I appreciate politeness. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u123	I'm not putting up the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u124	When I had a word with the highest. Prime Minister, I allowed me to quote an article by Indriði H. Þorláksson, which appeared in the core. During the discussion that happened later today, I noticed why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was very unhappy that we quoted in Þorláksson and surprised that our new leader of life was found in reinsurrection. It's not. What I did in my question to the highest. The prime minister was merely quoting Indriði, where he was highly critical of the direction left green is taking. He believes that waiting is worthwhile and that he is doing better. What I thought was more serious - and the left greens have not come to the fore to try to answer - is that he directly says that the status of the miniboats is used as a villain, and they have it in their costumes that they are doing something special for miniboats when they are actually moving the big things. [[The president calls.]] How is it that the left green is so peculiar that when they are the main expert for years, including Of the taxation and charge of the fishing way, do they act as if nothing is left to that person anymore? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u125	The President reminds me of why. The senator should respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u126	Madam President. I can tell you by the way here, I've been looking many times to the Indriði son of H. Þorláksson with various tax issues, but also for the price of hunting. He's a curious man. He knows things well, is quick to put himself in them, and recognizes those that are not as good in matters as the rest of us are. So I was very grateful for his article today. I hope so. The directors pause and wonder, even for a moment, whether there is a mistake here, and perhaps serving someone other than the public, that there are some special interests where they, even unexpectedly, are running ahead. I hope this case goes to at least... into the topic between discussions and reviews all the points that Indriði points to, etc. The world's own money has increased by 300 billion since collapse. Exploited interest in 20101⁄2016 was 66 billion dollars. I'm sure it's a pleasure to be happy when things are going well, but so much money and money are available to the nation's resources also skirm in the community. They need to be put away by money. Hardly all of them are excommunicated. This could not be done when we had the seas and many things in the environment. It was evidence that there were several men and women who had a lot of money and gathered property to them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for making such clear about the direction of the left green in the marine waters, the careful policy based on built - up policy of legislators, and the view of regional policy, that sources are divided by a particular methodology, which is strong. A senator was well - described. I don't think it's true that revere's signing suggestions from the left green in the ocean, though I know what to do with my mind. A senator lies in our left green. Maybe someday we'll work together, who knows? I'd like to ask you what. A senator into her ideas of auction. She said it was an auction route. Other members of the council, such as the chairman of the Controversies and the head of the woodlands, have spoken of this as merely a reassignment to the same party, 5% per year for the next 20 years. Then he talks. Senator on auction. A man is in a lot of circles trying to understand these suggestions. Regarding the auction, I couldn't help but tell you why. A senator to auction at the Faeroe Systems. There's been an auction at a certain part of the fishing grounds. There's an ocean fish, and they're not on land. This has led to the failure of any new members to arrive, and there have been very few hand - to - hand compressions. Moving ears have only 10,000 tons of bullfish, cod, inside their jurisdiction - on which they do not hunt - but, fortunately, we have 264,000 tons of cod for provision. How in the world can you compare it, except for what? A senator sees that sources of goods meet with auctions, as in the Faeroe Islands, with serious consequences for the settlements?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u128	Madam President. First, about our suggestions in the smaller parts. I have said, and I described in my speech, that we thought it was the best way to make peace, to improve recruitment, to make temporary contracts, and to offer parts every year. It's our policy in the United States. We argue that there will never be peace again until we try that way. On the other hand, the smaller part decided not to offer an invitation but only temporary negotiations, so it would be the government's independent decision what would be done with the 5% that would be released each year. The government, as a matter of course. A senator supports, would surely assign them back to the existing ones. However, temporary agreements would then support the nation's ownership of the resource. All classes - I corrected myself, Madam President. There are not all classes, but there is more to it in this council hall to make temporary contracts. That's why we planned it. A majority of the senators have spoken of some way of strengthening the parts of the country and have looked to the rural areas where food has disappeared because workers are setting up and making more money for themselves. The settlements that have carried the cost of economic management remain. It is reasonable to find some way to share the fishing fee and expand the settlements in various ways, e.g. with a job structure, culture, or whatever societies themselves can decide.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u129	A respectable president. Hv. A senator comes up again and tries to explain the suggestions found in the smaller section. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir that they should reassign the resources to the same party. This was mentioned in her speech earlier, to the same party. Therefore, I ask, How should this be done? In what way do current changes require reassigning of the resources? Then I'm not asking what the United States would like to do if it was controlled or restored or left green but just how to reassign the changes. Will they be expedient? If these are given to the same people, what chance is there to bring some newcomer in? In terms of my income, I assume that only income will depend on the research of a government fund. How should we meet the loss of income at the government fund that comes from a fishing fee? Doesn't the state funds have an additional income of a local fishing fee, to meet a dollar against a dollar of disability and to do good business, as we will do with 4 billion each year for the next few years? How on earth do you know what to do? A senator and a former secretary of finance, who I know is very careful in his approach to all matters, for the purpose of handling income from fishing fees? It's completely unassigned. If a single catcher is due next year, that bed will be 12 billion, and if the next year were to be passed, they would fall to 2 billion. Is this not a fluctuation that says that the sea route is swinging at good weather? [[The president calls.]] Is that not why it is good to contribute to the off - line fishing fees?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u130	Now I'm gonna say this once more: we're not offering out on markets, we're making temporary contracts. Although we would like to receive an invitation, we propose to the council that it will agree that there will be temporary agreements. [[With who?]] [[LMR: With whom?]] [[LMR: At which party?]] Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u131	Give the chamber silence and let the senator finish.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u132	Then I must say, Madam President, that I would like to pray. A senator for a quiet review of the motion. Then she must realize what we're talking about. That's the way it is. Hv. According to a senator, the next year, if the deportation proposal is approved, there will be $112 billion here, and there's too much to go to the part of the country. I still have to say, "Hv. A senator must read our suggestions. We're talking about dismissing the bill for a year and doing it better. If this proposal is to be accepted, the changes we offer as a backup will never be elected, so it doesn't matter. To meet the settlements, we do this. Hv. A senator asks them: " How does this income work? 7 billion this bill should be given into the state fund, approximately 5 billion dollars are involved in the waste management of the fishing industry. 2 billion remain, and they would pass on to the parts of the country. In the United States, we proposed a financial bill of all sorts of ideas about revenue and a lot more than 2 billion, in fact, for 26, as a boy. A senator could clean up and change the tax system, lay a big tax, raise the capital tax even more, etc. to bridge this $2 billion bar. space as soon as possible. A senator will see to it that he is walking to the settlements of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u133	Madam President. I was going to be curious about the President's not having a half-hour lunch break. We know that there is a meeting until midnight, and that is the custom, although some exceptions have been made, especially when the General is choking on the subject. We, however, are not choking on government matters, cannot be said to do so. Though this matter is huge, there is room for the council and much time ahead of Christmas. I was going to find out if it's not clear that there's a half-hour lunch break. It's a simple wish and a peaceful wish on my part, whether it's quite clear that while a case is being run over, it's not also being run over. But maybe that would be typical.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u134	Madam President. I simply want to say yes to every request. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, tells us that we will have a clear answer to whether we will get a lunch break. We senators did not comment that there would be a night meeting, but if it is not a lunch break tonight, it is clear that we will always have to make clear every time we give our consent for our evening meetings, whether the accepted custom will be honored that the senators will get a break. Then we'll just have it behind the ear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u135	Madam President. I want to come up and say the word with what. Council members for a lunch-out request. I think it is only natural for such a pause, especially since there are not very many members of the hall. It would be fine for the few senators who are here to take a break and eat a little.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u136	Madam President. To be honest, I assumed there would be a dinner break between 7:30 and 8. I'm asking a president, isn't that supposed to be? I am, for example. very hungry now, but I'm not going to leave the hall while this important matter is being discussed. I suppose, Madam President, we'll have a half-hour lunch break and we'll all be happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u137	A respectable president. I'm going to support the motion that Congress will have a lunch break for half an hour. It's impossible to sit here with an empty stomach and listen to the intestines when we're fishing and fishing. I think we can totally agree there, wherever we stand and whatever course we have, that even if we discuss the fishing charges, we all have to eat. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u138	No lunch break had been planned, but in view of the fact that a number of members of the council have expressed themselves as being hungry and wanted to eat out, the president has decided to grant that request. We'll take a lunch break until then. 20th
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u139	A respectable president. I have here an interesting bill from the highest. A government I ransacked me, of course, to read this weekend. It was an excellent reading in many ways. It's like that. Lots of math I like, summation and everything. There's not necessarily a lot of other cool stuff on the bill, but it's always fun to have a good season. Physicist Stephen Hawking should have said that every formula placed in a book half the number of readers. Here, though, there are a few, five that I think, so this may not be the bestseller this year, but, of course, we, of course, have to read it and feel it. There are curious things in the summers, e.g. says on page 24. 9 of this report, by permission of the President: ▪H ij - calculates the profits of fish species in fishing vessels j Hj = Aj ij - B ij - F ij Here's the A j value value, the Bi variable costs and the Fyj fixed costs. I'm not going to go into detail over the other four formulas that are found in the report, but basically, profits are obtained by drawing fixed costs and variable costs from the cost of earnings, as is shown in the tax returns of that given. Then, the total resources in Iceland are assessed for each species by suming this up over each species. So people value the overall value of each species by asking a provider: "What is your product worth? Then, with the summer's signal, the weapons and maths are trying to assess and tax it. It doesn't work that way with housing. The value of housing is not largely obtained by asking people how much their house costs. That assignment is given to national records, including statistics fundamental to the calculation of taxes. That is why people might think that they would benefit in some way because they were not completely correct. This is just different because these numbers are only used to calculate the overall value. Nevertheless, you might imagine, and it is criticism that is shown in many sources, that when it comes to this, people generally do not benefit from giving up a higher price. Housekeeping is, for example, evaluated through a national registry, and that system isn't perfect. The most advanced system in my opinion, the ultimate assessment of something, is by taking a look at business between non-connected parties. If the party A sells her apartment to party B, and they are altogether unplugged, and the price price is 40 million, that's very likely the price. Of course, we cannot sell every house every month to find their true value, and we could not sell all the salad every month, but goodbyes, fishing warrants, are different from house - to - house products, so it should be quite easy to find its value. And that is what we, the marketists, have simply been calling for, for example, the use of market equipment, An auction, to find the market price of the good things to eat. Then, when we get there, we can take a normal rent fee or remuneration at this right market price. In this way, there's no interest in it. Here is a new route, so pleasant as to include a reduction in hunting costs. So maybe you could say, as it turned out yesterday, including... When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppér, said that this reduction is now reduced but could be elevated in two years and could have been elevated two years ago. I must say, how fortunate some are that they have fallen into that moment in Iceland's history, where this action results in a reduction. It's amazing, isn't it? After a two-year rise, two years ago, but now a reduction. It's a pleasure to have these coincidences. This is incredible luck. And faithful men who spit that argument out, because if the fee goes up very much after two years using this algorithm, nothing will be done? Well, that's just a whole way to calculate the price of hunting, and it's not going to be shaken. Of course, the same reasoning that has been used in this discussion will continue to apply. Of course, all the same evidence of the weak results of the deportations that continue to be valid. Of course, if the price goes up excessively according to this formula, it will be reduced again. Actually, I don't believe the other way will be gone if the rule makes the pay down. It's my belief that this is how it's going to develop. I'd like to go to two things that were presented during the discussion, one through the discussion. It seems to me that the government or part of it just upset people completely about making some adjustments in the suggestion of the greater part, the government. It speaks of overthrowing the whole system, changing the law, how is it going now? It is as if, first of all, this was never the case before, that the government puts its ideas in the form of a change form, and secondly, it is a bit fun to accuse government opposition, in effect, about the lack of consultation when the bill was not even in the consultations established by the government itself for such cases. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It was not the consultation problem, and it is the government's responsibility not to consult with everyone. I think it's kind of funny. On the other hand, it is this charge or claim. paritaprevir The Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, who has expressed herself in the discussion about proposals for some form of auction, is being put at risk by the communities of the country. As to this, I have this to say: Of course, a truly effective market always looks toward a certain practicality. He will. There is no difference between whether there is some kind of free fishing supply within the present system or whether this efficient market is going to take place at the beginning of each year as part of the fishing warrant provided and then they go on buying and selling. There's no difference between the two. An effective market always has the effect that the property looks to someone who in some way may make the most practical use of it. I don't see why the offer of part of the quatan should produce any other effect than the free hall of a salad does, and you can't say that you are amazed at the ability of the quota system to stay in the country, to be told. A respectable president. It has been said in this discussion that part of the management team is terribly uncomfortable with what he is doing here. I find it hard to imagine if it's really that way, I have mixed feelings about it, because I don't necessarily see signs, I confess. Here people say: Hear, hear, and say time and again and again and again, and just give their hands over the protests and offer up their hands. I was here on the budget talk. Then they just clicked on the button like they were in an elevator. There was no heat in men, it was just a payment. But here's the passion. Here's the heat in humans, the fever of blood, the conviction. There's joy in the eyes of the management. It's just that way. When it comes to lowering the price of hunting, there is joy in the eyes of a government officer. They're going to get their way, and they're going to do it on their own because they think the government is so vastly political that what comes from elsewhere can only be ignored.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u140	Madam President. I would end up in speech after all. The senator, who was both illuminating and amusing, mentioned the quantity of these changes in hunting costs come to reduce the cost of a particular company. You see, it is quite remarkable that there seems to be no suggestion from the highest level. A government this time trying to change the operation of a hunting fee which does not cover significant reductions in fishing costs to relatively large companies. It's like everybody's got sympathy for shrinking to smaller companies. But by spring, when the bill was released, it was observed that 80% of the reduction would turn to the largest of the 101⁄215 companies. It just so happens that I haven't been able to find out exactly how this division would be. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he has examined the distribution of the decline and how the situation would be with this planned decline of the government. It is obvious that when it comes to the other factor that the reduction should benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, but the attempt then becomes that perhaps 80%, the way it was in spring, maybe 70% now, maybe less, I don't know, or the main part of the reduction to the largest companies, is not consistent. I'd love to hear from it. A senator how he sees this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u141	A respectable president. It asked me if I had studied the manner in which this division would come down. I have to answer that these calculations have not been made at all, if I say so, or in any respect in my case. These two views I have to respect for anyone who's trying to catch some kind of crash in the fishing system, they're difficult to coordinate. It is difficult to reconcile that another option of the system is that it leads to greater efficiency, and the other is that it should certainly not force those who are engaged in a work that might be more practical to make it more practical. It's hard to reconcile these two things, according to the nature of the case. Of course, it can be said, and that criticism has also been shown in some of the comments of those who speak it, that great discounts are, of course, cutting off those who are smaller. I'm not going to have a very strong opinion about it here, but in general, I'd rather look at these two views, that it's a positive thing to increase practicality rather than maintain inequality in behalf of some higher perspective. It's in some way similar to that of a local Sculptary Fund, which I have come to know better than I have. One aspect of the fund is trying to encourage unity, while the other is designed to provide special streets for those who are small when it comes to other joints.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u142	Madam President. Thank you for your excellent answer. There's an interesting point to that. A senator mentioned that there are several fine equations in the bill. I noticed, too, that there's a total of three graves that also enjoy seeing in prime places, that I like both constant and graves like cot. Senator. Still, there was a bit of digging left and perhaps most important in the context of the distribution. It is a plot that shows the distribution, i.e. how the decrease spreads on the enterprise by size, how it is estimated that each company will benefit from it. If the digging was totally flat, then good, then we can talk about it. If there were a large majority of the declines to the smallest of the enterprises, well and well, it would be in line with the stated political policy that has developed many times. But if it's as it's been, we're not going to reach the political goals that are repeatedly said to be made by the government. Then we have an offended limbo in which there is no relationship between what is said and what is real. I think it's very peculiar, and I know why. A senator, a man of great precision, probably has as much contempt as I see it to be so vague.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u143	A respectable president. Yeah, I agree with what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr with that if those who claim that here are trying to do something to meet smaller parties--which I actually came to, that of all the goals that the eating system may not have been necessarily what I would put at the top--and if people are at the thought that it is very important to make a change in the reality that easier it is to run such a business, those who made it did not provide enough evidence for that, in my opinion, and it is right by the bottom. A senator, that this is truly improving the interests of smaller plants. Digging as if what he mentioned might have been a solution to its justification. But none of that is to be distributed. What we are invited to do is mainly some sort of rumor, rather than an effort to appeal to our emotions and point to people's conversations, that these things cause problems for the smaller ones than to be ambiguous. There's also something else that has to do with distribution, something important. It must be kept in mind that when it comes to the situation that total resources are estimated from the individual tax statements and when the situation is that some of them may have considerable amounts, they themselves can affect the amount of hunting costs by not keeping it higher than they need.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u144	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting and pleasant speech. She was a very interesting audition. Now it just so happens I know what to do. A senator is particularly slippery in mathematics. I'm just going to go so far as to say that math is one of his strong points, and I remember it from college back in the day. Hv. A senator entered the equations found in the bill, how complex they were - perhaps not complicated. A senator, but maybe more complicated for a math player like me. There's a lot of things being mixed up there, and I'm afraid I'm trying to tell you that these calculations are being complicated. That's why I wanted to ask you why. A senator would have any idea how he could possibly do this in a simpler, more understandable way, and more transparent than is being done there. The reviews comment on the complexity of the calculations. Hv. A senator talked about the market route, and some of them were busy. It's been invaded by members of Congress. I would like to mention it as a dog. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir came in earlier, who are invited in the Faeroe Islands. It included comparing average numbers with prices for individual species on the other hand. I'd like to hear from what I hear. A candidate on this fundamental difference and the misdemeanor may be comparing averages and prices to individual species.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u145	A respectable president. Yes, I must say, not that which is wrong, that in itself there is nothing wrong with the formulas set out there. Ideas are simply trying to measure the value of these things in a way that they try to measure the value of a house that has not been bought and sold for many years. Then you take your rooms, count of square feet, age of the house, and so forth, trying to find out what you could get for the house if it had gone shopping and selling. Here is an attempt to create a frame around normal rent fees, around some kind of formulas. They'll walk in my opinion so they'll see exactly, as far as they reach. Then there's a question about what you put into them and whether it's right to trust the agencies that have to be fully taxed for creating the variables that are entered into a formula as this is done and that have been criticized. If we are going to build the tax base on these numbers, perhaps it would be better not to produce them ourselves. I must say, when I read e.g. The articles involved in this matter that I don't feel strongly enough about the authority of a governor to measure this in any other way, especially since the question is how he should appreciate it. In my opinion, he must have a stronger legal base to claim that this price on valuable things is not correct. To some extent, it is more difficult when we do not have a means of valuing valuables. What is the right way to value value? It's the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u146	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's appreciation for an excellent answer, even though I have missed the average conversation a little. Hv. A senator will, hopefully, enter it in the second answer. As I mentioned earlier, there was a why. A member of the body of elders brings in much interesting information in his speech and, in fact, in his speech. The emotions in the hall and outside in this ongoing discussion are fine. I may not wish for it. A senator will begin to try to interpret the feelings of others, for it would be a long way to go. But like a dog. A senator came on, and has been inserted in previous talks today, is proposed by the currently proposed bill according to its policies at least Two of the three members of the board. Counts 'em out. A senator that, if an additional year were given to work on the bill and to consult, could government and government stand together for the pressures of hunting fees?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u147	A respectable president. First, I will admit that I have not studied the auction in the Faeroe Islands for the depth of my trust in adding some valuables in this discussion, to express myself on it. So I'm just completely honest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u148	This is how general it is about the difference in the average...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u149	- Yeah, I'm having a bit of a hard time answering that question because I don't know it well enough. But as for the chances of making peace here, I have to say, having observed the discussion for a long time, that unfortunately, you are not always hoping. Having faith in it, you have come to realize that there is always some problem as you approach the solution. Now it is, for example. This fund, which appeared in the motions of government opposition, has suddenly become an enormous problem. I'm very interested in where the money goes, if I have to tell you right now. I don't think this fund is the beginning and end of everything in the motion. I feel that the time to rent out is the right thing to do. I think it's also right for those people who work in this article because there you've got some stability. Then you have some sort of stock to 20 years of age that will not be taken away by the simple decision of the Generals. I think it's a lot of work for everyone to try to settle this point, not just those who want to take more money from the project. There are a number of other factors that would make things stable. I think that's what I'm trying to do, and I'd really like to have that conversation. Of course, the will must be both.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u150	Madam President. We Icelanders have succeeded in what few nations have prospered. We have made a fishing industry a lucrative business. In addition, we use resources in a practical way. These times are behind the discussion, and they often want to be forgotten when, like the demand and the ridicule of the authority, the hunger gaps by transfers, gangs, gangs, gangs passage, and what was used to justify the decaying system of transduction. The resources were wasted, and the public paid the bill. It was a situation for decades. Remuneration was eaten up by obscenity and gang folds. The skunks were allowed to continue to expand, and the wise men were kept low. You see, it is necessary to review these times here because people think and speak here as if it were possible for a great deal of money to be made and made of fish. It was a special waste supply for fishing ships to encourage builders to lay ships. Velocities were given to export companies, oil funds paid off the expense. The government's office had a special assignment to help support the poor by means of deforestation, especially local deforestation. Since then, a great deal of water has flowed to the sea. We've stopped arguing about gangfalls, at least Public gangfalls, huh? Senator. We've stopped arguing about how much financial support we have to make and how many public funds we need to keep all of this going. We're arguing over the weight of fishing and, as a whole, the fishing industry paid taxes in the last five years, 20133/42017, 105 billion. No other industry in our country pays as much in our common budget as when it comes to the pressures of hunting costs, if it is our intention to maintain a lucrative fishing route, it will not be avoided to take into account the reality that we face. Even those who harbor envy and use seafood and the debate on fishing costs to raise suspicion, sow seeds of envy, have to face facts. It is a fact that from 33 billion in 2016 to 19 billion in 2017, some 14 billion. It must be so that we take some of the results of this article when we decide how we will collect and how much the flag will be unless it is the intention of trying to prevent the continued profit - making fishing industry. So people here talk about it and suggest that fishing sales in the fishing road are out of line with everything else that happens, and that this business can easily pay much higher fishing costs, but according to Habitat figures, interest rates were as a percentage of the profits in the marine roads in 2010-2016 21% compared to other industry 31%. It is all right to go from time to time to the facts when people discuss money from sea to sea and indicate otherwise than the facts show. I'll be able to give a witness, Madam President, in Pétur Hafsteinn Pálsson, director of Science in Grindavik, when he spoke of the kind of bullshit being involved in the interest of money and fishing costs. He interviewed the business magazine in January, U.S.A., with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ The fees we will pay [Saves hf.] cities in one year now, 300 million, are the same thing we have paid for in 20 years. You know, science is a pretty good running company and a pretty big one. Well, that's a disaster for all of us. There is now more money, and there is more of the self - worth that these owners have committed, as much money in 20 years as in a year of hunting expenses. It would be wish to, Madam President, that we spent as much time worrying about the competitiveness of the marine route as we would spend in a debate over how high the fishing costs should be or how much other taxes and expenses we're supposed to put on the seabed. In fact, this applies also to other companies and other occupations. As I have said repeatedly, more than anything goes and goes on in the most competitive countries, the decrease in the situation in foreign markets as well as at home. When it is decided whether fishing costs should be higher or lower, and even stop looking for survival in the output and swinging progress there, we will not be able to keep in mind that the major rivals of Iceland and Iceland's seafood products will receive protection and government management at the same time as the cost of costing money, fishing, or what we would like to call it. However, it is against the equality reasons here to let other sectors that use our common resources do not pay special resource expenditures in the same way as we demand that the sea route be violated by the equation. As we examine and make a decision on resource costs on the fishing road, we need to consider whether and how to place similar costs on other sectoral resources that use our common resources. On the other hand, if we are successful, cutting taxes on the public could even create an opportunity for us. Dissociation and mismanagement of sectoral taxation damages all decision-making and distorted decisions, especially when it comes to investments. Investment is taking on harder parts in the areas of employment that have special appeals. You see, a strong fishing road is a benefit to everyone. The marine road is the source of other resources. A number of businesses serve the seabed. Organizations that have grown from the root of the fishing road have, in some cases, become international companies that have a variety of sectors. The development of high - tech companies has directly contributed to the investments of marine resources. In 2016, according to Deloitte's assessment, the Icelandic fishing company purchased services from technical companies for less than 50 billion in 2016. It has been predicted that it will not be long before sales of technology and knowledge in the fishing industry become greater than cod exports. This is the result of the cooperation of Icelandic fishing industry, which has been strong in its feet and technology and will provide additional support to the Icelandic economy. It is these pillars that we are now going to try to shake a little bit and a little weak. You see, the way in the sea has been the breaking of technology in many fields in Iceland and innovation. The seabed road is the only industry we can honestly say is that we have the world's leadership. Finally, Madam President, there will not be a brief discussion of the changes in the Council, the Controversies, and the Piranians who have joined together to contribute. It's called some kind of expiration, or I don't know what to call. As noted earlier today, it is not clear whether transporters are fully intertwined as to what they want in that suggestion. Of course, decades have gone back in time with an old boiler. I was going to quote this report by Dr. Daði Már Kristófersson, a professor of economics, at the request of a committee for a review of fishing management under the Guðbjartur - given title Hannesson. Már, who in this room should know very many - he will be or at least has been an active partner and a member of the ideologies of Action-- according to a word in this report, by permission of the president: The energy system has created a great deal of value through economic management and more valuable products. The largest part of the share in total resources, the permanent fishing grounds, has been changed since the system was established. Thus, the financial advantage created by the economy has already been largely removed from the companies by means of the resources market. New sources of resources are not making more money than normal, considering the risk of making companies. This severely restricts the opportunity of the government to increase the payment of the project without a possession recording and has a major negative impact on its operating conditions. Expiration of resources involves a very negative impact on the economy and the business of exporting companies. What could appear to be a negligible limit of expiration has, in fact, a very negative effect, since key property is being permanently removed. The results of this series indicate that linear expiry beyond 0.5% per year - I call attention to this - a picture of wiping out the profits made. Exacerbation beyond this is likely to result in a sustained loss of ability. It will also significantly reduce its own budget. According to this analysis, about 1% of linear expirys per year would fully eliminate the actual budget of the factory. Daði Már also noted that the expiry of resources has some negative effects beyond the direct influence on road yields, which are seen regardless of whether they were assigned or purchased, in the first place, the rate of budgets not equally distributed in the rural areas, but in areas where the production is a large part of the industry. This is primarily true of the fishing villages. Second, because its interests are no longer the height of the long - term value, the limitation of short - term profits is reduced in terms of quality. Third, the expiration capitals of effective use from manufacturing companies to the state of the country where profit is often, and I'm going to say, almost always, much smaller. I think senators do more stupid things than read this report. It is from 2010 well - employed, well - supported, and might lead to some thinking, even if only for a brief period of time. One thing that I have to add at the end because I see that time flies: the target system, long-term vision, has enabled Icelanders to deal with more and more aggressive competition in foreign markets. Fish farming is a growing proportion of the world's fish catch. Thus, in competition with fish farming that, unlike the time we have to go to the sea, constant supply of standard - quality fish is vital to ensure that, where possible, it is always available. Hunts stand in palaces, as I hope men know, before the fire in this respect. A target system with a permanent share is the best way to make it easier to catch up with the more aggressive competition that is the fish fire. You should be careful when they come here and proclaim a revolution on one afternoon, as is now done by members of the Council or the heads of Pirata, the Controversies, and the rest of the adjustments that exist here. Let us take a closer step on earth than that. At least that's not true. example in how you do it. The head of the trade committee has handled matters. For two months the matter has been discussed, between 50 and 100 visitors, dozens of reports have been received, and sufficient opportunities have been made to take part in the shape of the changes. The senators felt that it was necessary. At the same time, the highest. In order to introduce the hunting bill, to participate in the debates available there, to communicate, to communicate, to listen to the viewpoints that existed there. I have no doubt that any ocean leader has traveled as much as he has had so many meetings and has met just as many people to discuss one unique bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u151	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for this speech. I took the time, and I was on great issues, just until the last two minutes, slightly agreeing with what a speaker was saying about the importance of a powerful fishing road for an Icelandic community. We must not simply thank the builders and fishermen and the fish farmers for that. We must also say something: Politicalism helps to build an environment that contributes to this lucrative industry. I also agree with him that we are to be removed from the quirks of the authority. Key things. But I feel like we're moving closer with this bill. That's two simple questions. I'll see time goes. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that it was his personal opinion that hunting should not be paid? Does he agree? And another question: It is clear that left greens have disappeared from temporary agreements. It is also clear that the stability of fishing has been fundamental to the practicality of the fishing. I think we can agree on that. [[The president calls.]] Just how long it takes. A senator that these rights that are available to builders today are? [[The president calls.]] Are they even one, five, or are they in the infinite? Two questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u152	Madam President. Now I've been so lucky to be sitting a considerable number of meetings with the highest. High priests over the years. True, he was not always a minister then, but let it lie. I'll be surprised if you do. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir has just after the Supreme Court. Minister at that meeting in Akureyri she brings up. I myself believe that it is normal and reasonable for the sea route to pay special fees, resource bills, fishing fees, I don't care what men call it, which reflects goods in this article. But I also think it's normal and fair that we talk about it at least. Whether and in what other ways the sector that uses our common resources pays something to say the name of resource costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u153	Madam President. When the conversation begins, it will always be seen that there is always much more to it if you want to see what you can get together about. Yes, we agree that all sectors that use resources should be paid resource costs. But is it not fine, so that we do not postpone this hope, starting at least with the legal feature of the country's share of fishing? It is, in fact, the only profession where this is actually legal, and it would be nice to start there. But then the question I would like to repeat is, To what length of time does he feel that fishing rights are distributed to the project? This is very important. Are the fishing rights permanent to the development without the time limit? Or does he think he's some kind of time limit? What are they? It's a very simple question. Is the reality to the infinite, or can see why. A senator specific time tie, one year, five years or more?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u154	Madam President. It is clear that it is in the hands of Generalis to set rules, rules, laws. Among other things, I do not doubt that if more of the council wants to overthrow the fishing system, he can. But I believe that the right to hunt is now intermittent and is paid for. If, as I think it seems to be suggested, people who encourage such an approach answer the question, Is it necessary that those who are now registered for the fishing grounds, the rights, the job rights, to fetch the fish from the sea will not be required to be harmed at that time? [[That's not what they're doing.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u155	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for a good tour. The senator considered the history of the fishing system as it is today and the times before when these were in the arms of the government, as I have often talked about in talks. That's why making money can pay the resources, that's where we agree. But I'd like to ask the senator. I've been worried about it since the law was set 2012, and I criticized it a lot then, and now I also do with this bill, that it's not very transparent, that there is something more missing to go to the budgets. Why not take a closer look? There's some Band-Aids, they're freezing! Ten percent down, seaship 10% up, small and medium-sized forms receive discount. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It makes it more hairy and vulnerable, and it's not for me that it doesn't make enough money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u156	Madam President. I think there's a very correct remark next to you. A senator that no doubt you can simplify the system even more. We can join together to do so in the years to come. On the other hand, I think we're taking a very big, positive step, moving the collection and the calculations to the head of state tax and all that, and it's moving the fee into time. But there's one thing I'm warning you. I think it's very dangerous to have a complex system, one reciprocal system for this class and another for small boats and one for frozen ships and then one for lineboats, etc. [[The president calls.]] I think that further the way that most of the employment committees would do better with their changes, which was discounted for less decommissioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u157	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. But I'm still worried that there'll still be a contraction in this article. That's where this bill plays in. Not everyone agrees, but I have that opinion. I thought about bringing a change in that being, as I mentioned earlier. But as the senator entered, this is a step in the right direction, and hopefully we can work on this in the future. I would especially like to thank the senator for saying in a talk that we should talk more about resource costs in broad context. He named there the definition of resources that the person currently transferred the synopsis and taking the resource expenditures from the articles after the work that can be taken from, which can carry it. And then go to that discussion in the future, so that the weight and the endless stream of fishing for the fishing will have a little break, I can't say otherwise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u158	Madam President. You're right next door. A senator and best to reiterate. A senator is 1st a messenger to a synopsis proposal for the definition of resources. That can be a good foundation for what I'm talking about. However, one of the critical factors I have not yet heard of this bill - and that is, the bill of a seafaring minister - is that in 2017, it was a very difficult year for the seafaring, the result really terrible. That the simple law should have reflected the many difficulties that became 2017 for various reasons, the dollar rose, that was a seaman strike, etc. But with this legislation, we've been pulling it out a year. We can say, in foals: In the form of a lower price, the Seafood Road will never be allowed to enjoy this terrible year. [[The president calls.]] Of course, no one will point this out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u159	Madam President. Hv. A senator asked at the beginning of his talk, in view of the reduced number of funds that support the seabed, the number of funds needed to maintain and support the fishing grounds today. I think it's easy to answer. There's one, and that's the state fund. In the context of this, we can say that tax charges have been given for disposal. "Wiss like a dog. A senator mentioned himself, e.g. one of the most beneficial enterprises in terms of investments this year, for five years. It ran at some hundred million. It might also be noted that there is repeated evidence that the importance of having some context. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: If it's the idea of having some sort of permanent resource sharing, how can we not look at the figures and the discount, saying that we want some kind of fairness, and that we all want to have it so that those who have received these specified resources would no longer go to the state fund like this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u160	Madam President. Admittedly, it is not acceptable to speak in a manner that is easily understood. A senator when it is available, and I pointed out the fact, that over a five - year period, in 20136/2017, the sea route paid 105 billion in fees, in hunting fees, in income taxes, and insurance bills. 105 billion, more than any other industry. Then people talk as if the fishing road were a little needing something or nursing at a government fund. It is true, however, that when the sea route was crushed, as did most of the population and most of the company, and was heavily owed, the figure was calculated. To prevent them from simply sailing on the beach, the most debting projects were made. That's right. But that time has passed. That time is past, what. Senator. He should be happy, and we are glad that if they want to be called, they've been taken away. But is it in an attempt to impose a higher price on Iceland's fishing grounds, which is in a more harsh international competition, whose competitors have to pay? [[The president calls.]] Is that coincidence?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u161	Mr. President. It must be recognized that the specified charges are used for access to a resource. The tax and all that pays every other company. Where was the incarceration when We had a problem a couple weeks ago? I'm asking a very important question. If such appointments are permanent, like a whale. A senator contends, and some have received them; where is the reasonableness? Hv. A senator mentioned envy earlier, that there was some jealousy in those who had access to this resource. But where is the fairness in that there is a fixed group that will benefit from all of our resources until they decide to stop doing so themselves? Where is the reasonableness involved? How can you justify having this permanent resource? That must be the most important question tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u162	Mr. President. I never said the fishing warrants were permanent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u163	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u164	- No. No, I didn't say that. I even noted that of course the Allied could - well. paritaprevir Katrín's Þorgerður will only be slow now. [[Up front.]] Really.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u166	Thank you. [[Up front.]] What I said, however, was that they were intermittent, anything but permanent. There's no time limit on those resources, and there's two different dates. Senator. I also stated that, of course, any decision at any time could be made by the General to change the entire fishing system if you thought it was wise to do so. [[Up front.]] I'm warning you. I warn it with the same strong words as can be done in a way that, for example, can be done. Councilmen of Pirata, senators of the Revolutions and members of the United States of America want to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u167	A respectable president. There's a lot of things in the Constitution, I think. This is where we could understand why. So the government's decision to collect resources from an specified resource rather than other prudent ones near the 90th rule. To be honest, I thought I would. A senator would at the end of his talk declare opposition to the bill, for that is the only logical result of claiming such things. If he were to do so and it would fail, it would no longer be valid, there would not be one industry above another that would have to be paid resources. So I'd like to ask you how you're doing. A senator will justify this to himself. If he does so in any way, and if he believes that the issues of equality require that all resources be charged, which tax is going to go. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason to suggest next to meet the claims of equality he has mentioned in the symposium?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u168	Again, it's okay to try to listen to what I've said before tonight. I'm a spokesman for the fishing route paying the resource fee or fishing fee, I don't care what word it is used for. I'm its sponsor, but I want it to reflect and take into account the survival of this article. But at the same time, I noticed that there is no equal between industry when one industry that uses our common resources needs to cover resource costs and others don't. I was urging that we start that discussion at the Hall of Congress. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson is one of those who have been giving that discussion, and I rejoice in it. I hope so. A senator is involved or has a chance to participate in it. It cannot contradict such ideas, considering whether it is reasonable for other articles that use our resources in common to pay also costs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is not a more wonderful idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u169	A respectable president. I asked primarily whether to interpret a word. A senator believed that the Constitution's equal rule was broken by contributing resource bills to one resource and not to others. He has declared it; I understood him, so that it is not so according to his estimation. That's all right. There will not be a fair budget for common resources when it comes to other resources. I'd like to ask you a few questions about his opinion of words. paritaprevir The Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, who declared that Pirata's proposals, restoration, and the United States were a source of liberalism. I wonder what. A senator agrees with the interpretation that our suggestions are liberal and that he views them as a liberal. He can agree with the suggestions on these terms or feel that he is scurvy. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir there used the ideologies of a crime.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u170	Mr. President. There should not be any surprise in this room that I and I have. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney doesn't agree on everything, so if we were completely united, we wouldn't have any fun in the administrative work. Whatever it is. A member of the West believes that being a liberal is sometimes in my mind a tiny socialism, which seems to be now instigation, having made Þorláksson H. Russellson his spiritual leaders.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u171	V.E.G. President. I used to come up here and answer the question. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson said to go to the highest. A minister would have told certain things at a certain meeting in the north. I believe that the right thing to do is right. I have a lot of pressure to sit around about all the backs here, but I'm right. My sources say that a minister said he had doubts about the fishing fee, but this bill was a compromise. I will draw it out in the light of it, and in the spirit that it shall be right. I hope people don't continue with all kinds of back-ups and downs of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u172	That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u173	Mr. President. I have to start by saying that I find it rather difficult to accept it when it does. The members of the major section come here one by one and say they don't understand simple suggestions. They can hardly blame others but themselves, and I find it hard to believe that it is considered acceptable a political hearing to say: "I don't understand the suggestions, and therefore they're bad. Nevertheless, this is how it is, suggestions have come from Pirata, the Revolutions and the Conspiracy, and they are about very few things. I'm just gonna explain this and listen to it carefully because I can do it just once. The suggestions are based on a few simple reasons. I've heard people misbehave these criteria today. In 1st. The law on the control of fishing says, under the permission of the President: The European Court of Auditors is the European Union of the European Union. So says: ▪ The aim of these laws is to promote the protection and practical use of them, thus ensuring stable employment and inhabited by the country. The distribution of fishing warrants under these laws does not form a possession or an unregistered custody of the individual bodies over the fishing grounds. I don't know how many times this article has been quoted, but it's the wrong thing that some have claimed, including to form a bang. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir from outside. five today, that he belongs to those who have assigned him a greeting at the moment. They just don't own it. They own this fish or this resource. This is the basis I give myself, to the 1st par. The law has some truth in it. This is because it is a good basis. That given is quite obvious that the method of distribution is relevant. It is possible to assign reasonable or unreasonable ways, and reasonable means must be based on some simple requirements. Number one is that when it comes to distribution, all sit at the same level, number two is that neither permanent nor untimely nor automatically distributed to the same parties as number three, the distribution is in accordance with the motivation and human ability to take advantage of that distribution. The current system falls on the first two of these three criteria. It is also lacking that reasonableness applies not only to those wanting to be assigned but also to the nation of each resource being assigned. Because of this fairness, we can make two more demands: The number four is that the nation is benefiting from the use of the resource and the number five, to help balance the level of the stocks, as it is found in Article 1. that the basis was important. It's pretty simple, and I think anyone can agree with this. It is now that the majority of groups at the council have at some point expressed their desire either to recall regularly or in some way or to go into some kind of auction system, even in part of the harvest, as in the case of the left green. This is in part or perhaps in some cases getting prices from the market about how fishing costs are set or to ensure reasonableness in the process itself, e.g. take into account the based properties. I'm not going to dwell on these specifics because these are not in the nature of our proposals of Pirata, the restoration and the organization for this time, but, rather, our proposals are much simpler. There was a lot of talk about it in spring when the government did not succeed in overhauling much of the changes in hunting costs, some good but most bad, that it was important to make some kind of reconciliation in the fall. V.E.G. A big comment was that all the views needed to be harmonized, and I quote from the highest level. Minister, with permission of presidents: The telethon that I plan to contribute in the fall, and work in summer, will be based on it, and the three main reasons that we can get together in the fall of a wise source of a common resource, we will agree, hopefully, in some way we want to organise our budget, and we will accept the principles of a new arrangement that we meet on January 1, 2018, as well as the rules that the Council will bring together for the collection of fishing costs, will also be directed to 2018, and we will be able to apply to apply the rules that we agree on the payment of this year. In itself, these words mean that if I'm not mistaken, it was at least part of the goal of accepting the viewpoints that have come up in our time. Minister. It also said "wow." paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of the professional station, in spring, on permission of presidents: I hope we make it together. I believe it is very important that we, the council, handle the large and great work that awaits us in the fall, even though we have not now done so, and even though this trial has been part of contracts for the end of the council. I assumed very large things. I expected here to produce a bill that would come to the viewpoint of these three groups that have held up these suggestions for years. But then this bill came, and you can imagine how happy and surprised we were. Although the bill provides some excellent changes, there are certainly some good changes in the bill at the highest. Some months ago, the minister's discussions are not met with the important points that many have traced to today and tonight, senators such as Oddný G. The Harðardóttir daughter and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, who have been tireless in pointing out the importance of building stability in the seabed by creating a system according to the above assumptions and legitimate demands. But in the spirit of what was suggested by the majority of things that may not have lasted quite, we wanted to offer some very moderate suggestions this time. The suggestions are very simple. There are four of them, and they are numbered. 1st is, in fact, just an explanation of our goals, that everyone understands that these are the goals we are going to reach. If you look into this, it's nothing more than rephrase the goals presented in Article 1. the layer of fishing management, with perhaps a little more emphasis on an equation based on changes in sectoral practices causing major losses. Section 2 really reaches the point of the first sentence, two that I mentioned before, i.e. that there is neither permanent nor automation to the same party. In fact, the second paragraph suggests that everyone sits at the same level of distribution. It's pretty simple and understandable, isn't it? I may have lost everybody. Then the 3rd verse and its goals are met for the four and five reasons, i.e. that they benefit from the use of the resource and the usefulness of it will help to balance existing positions. Then there's the fourth Amendment. She meets the fifth objective, that the use will help balance the facility. It's very simple. This should be part of anyone's life. Actually, this should be enough, but this morning an article from the highest level. A minister of seafood in the News magazine, claiming that there was some kind of uncertainty as to how this reassignment could be achieved. If a reassignment took place, it would somehow be in the air. That's why I don't agree. The adjustment is clear on this. Moving this into a temporary form is creating a contract-oriented position that is more predictable for companies who receive this permanent distribution, i.e. During the contract period. This is, in general, an entirely new figure in Icelandic fishing soil, forethought and stability that will not be mixed with any political decision. This is something that must be viewed as a better arrangement than a new reimbursement by the Council of Churches every year. By making it that way, in the process of making this adjustment, that the temporary reassignment exists to those who have a share department, is saying: Okay, we're not going to go some kind of marketing route right now. We're not gonna make this up, we're just going to move the arrangement just since it's been taken into predictable agreements that run a certain amount of time, are not temporary, and are not permanent. Thus, it is gradually over a longer period of time. This would exactly make it possible that if there was a change in the system at some point, the companies would be living at this contract-right position, which must be an improvement. They're not opening up some kind of new distribution. Of course, it would be better if we were to, in the spirit of our major ideas, but we are not trying to get the basic ideas of these classes now. We're trying to match a very strange position that has developed because it's now an enterprise in the country that has been given responsibly and that they are permanent even if they're only temporary, so you can only hammer on these phrases. In addition, by correcting this, by expounding these business uncertainty for our companies, we will make them useful by directing the financial resources that come from this to our rural society. This will, naturally, have some effect on the way we work on government issues to the future. By ensuring that rural and rural areas have greater and more secure access to money, access that cannot be eliminated in a simple way, some changes in financial contributions to rural society will occur. But that is all right because these changes will be more predictable for the future and will, of course, cause the settlements to start predicting and planning ahead. It might be more tore up, but rather than go into the individual details of the bill itself, which I know others have done and others will do, I intend to stop. Here I have actually explained all the most important aspects of our proposal. So I go back to this one is the five requirements we make, five basic requirements that everyone should be able to agree on, i.e. that all are at the same level as the non-diving distribution, that the distribution is neither permanent nor is automatically reassigned to the same party, and on that point the current system falls. True, our suggestions may help to change it just a little. The third requirement is that distribution is in some way consistent with interest and ability that the present system actually does quite well. It requires four that the nation benefit from the use of the resource, which the nation certainly does to some extent, but as has been over and over again, there is no relationship today between real prices on the market and what the government and the Council demand to be paid on a certain occasion. There's a problem. Then there's the fifth point where the newcomer helps balance our ground position, which is a bit of a weight in our suggestions. If some people still have trouble understanding these suggestions, I don't know exactly what to do for them but I really want to come and talk to me because I'm willing to explain this more slowly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u174	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. There are three questions I would like to ask the senator or ask for an explanation. First of all, I wondered about other parts of the transition, i.e. for the replacement procedure. All I want to do is ask the senator if this is not involved in changing the fishing law itself, not in changing things about the price of hunting. I ask because Piratars have often been very determined in their form and that it should be valid, so I wondered, " Is this in the right place? ' I won't have any opinion at this moment at the suggestion itself, I'll have it for sure later. But I wondered if it's in the right place. Second, I'd like to ask the senator in general for resource expenditures because, at last, I'll just say I've finally made a certain debate here now that goes on the evening, about whether it's fair and fair to take one resource out of parentheses and put some special stress or fee on it, whether it's the same thing about other resources. It is a matter that we in the Middle Ages, led by the Sigurður of the son of Páll Jónsson, have stressed in the council. Whether the senator agrees that resources and resource expenditure should be combined, no matter what the resource may be. Third, whether the senator can agree that it is best to try to find the easiest way to pay or what we call it, tax or tax, for the use of a resource, and possibly by a simple means of using some kind of pressure on income tax. Instead of having too complicated a system to figure out a fair amount of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u175	Mr. President. I'm gonna start at the back. True, it is desirable to take the easy way. However, I am not convinced that the easiest way to do this is to put stress on income taxes, and this is simply because a income tax product is something that can be manipulated in a number of ways, e.g. magazines in investments and so on. We simply know that it is not necessarily a good way, apart from the fact that it is not normal to talk about the use rights of a resource as a tax. This is not a tax, this is a price taken before the use of a resource. The other is that the easiest way to do this would be an auction, well known. It's seen many things. I don't know how many hours we've spent in this council hall talking about the other way, that the rate is somehow set political. It's not easy for me or anyone else to do it. For resource uses in general, certainly additional resources should be dependent on some expenditures. There was a law on energy resources at the time that might have been otherwise, but it was a good step forward because the energy is one of our most important resources. There are other resources that should, of course, fit in there, e.g. minerals and so on. Of course, this discussion should be discussed. One thing to be careful about during the discussion is - I'm sorry, I didn't get into the conversation when the council concluded. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll's Jónsson John - that there are, of course, things in the world that are not considered to be resources today but perhaps in the future. We have to avoid taking a certain way. [[The president calls.]] I have to answer my first question in another answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u176	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his answers and speculations. Yes, the question remains to be answered. I think it's right, of course, to worry about it if we fear that someone might try to cheat and cheat the tax. In this hall, there are perhaps ways to turn it all around. I don't want men to do that in advance, that they're going to do it. At the very least, we should have tools and tools to deal with them. I'm not really worried about it because of that reason. But I also have to say that I think it's a little phrase whether we talk about taxes, fees, pressures, or anything. We're talking about some kind of money for using a resource. It may well be that there is a correct price to be spoken of. I don't think I'm gonna start talking about what. That's what a senator's got to do with it. It may be the most important thing to agree that it is better to find a way that is simpler, more obvious, and can apply to all the resources if you go on that route. But I agree with the senator, and it's a very interesting approach, that we should not, of course, close the definition of what resources are. We know too little about the future, what it may bring, and although both of us are on a so - called future committee, it is difficult to predict what will be the next resource or resource after 50 years or 80 years or a god knows what. Still, we have certain resources that we must be able to define today and ask ourselves how we are going to handle and handle it, that is what we are wondering about. And I think it's important to have general support that I feel I'm going to be at the council to consider these matters much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u177	Mr. President. To answer the first question, why? A senator from today's shape. Of course, it has been made up of laws between hunting fees and the general management of the fishing system. I'm not entirely convinced that the separation is good. There are certainly some systems in which this separation is justified. But because it's really so closely connected, it's a little like taking traffic laws and separating the part of the law about traffic fines from other parts of the law, which I thought were strange. But regarding the phrase: Of course, there is something to say that this is a very small comment. But it doesn't change that so many learned articles have been written on the difference between the three factors, taxes and services and resource costs, so there will be a little respect for them. A very good attempt has been made to keep these separate, especially since taxes are based on certain sources of operation. The second, however, is that in only grayer areas and has generally been justified by equality and such, but especially that there has been a very hard war against the idea that services and resource expenditures are something else. Some people, who are at the Council, who want everyone to deal with this as the same, so that resources can always be said to be taxed, an additional tax on an enterprise. [[The president calls.]] It's just not the case. It's a payment for use rights. We have to keep this separate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u178	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy fine attempt to try to explain the main element of the proposal from the three categories of the smaller section. I think most of us, if not all, would agree that we have to live in such a way that the water - which is certainly a big, big branch, and very important and that it is far from me - live in stability and regret. Today's debate, and this is part of the change in the memory of the part, turns toward trying to increase its awareness. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, that he believed the rights that have been created today were premature. True, people began to talk about whether it was permanent or what it meant, but let us keep up with the expression "woe. " A senator says they're not temporary. He also said that it was quite ready for the Council to change any time. If they were to get together and once agreed on something tomorrow, we could take away their rights from the project in one piece. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'd like to ask. A senator has wondered, " Is my right to a particular time more comfortable, predictable, and an order more stable, or has the instability that the General can change the rules at any time? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u179	Mr. President. I kind of have to start by not having a problem. Senator. As a result, at a council, we are all amazed at many times. That's great, though I really wanted us to agree on this. The problem with the idea of premature distribution is that it means that there are some who come to control that resource until it is decided on their part or on the political side of this room. It induces a measure of motivation for those who want to keep certain members of the system within the system to stop all changes here, as we have sometimes seen. I'm not saying it's the only motivation. It is naturally filled with other motives. Some people find the system really good, even though I disagree with it. So the other thing is that this is not a permanent phase of time because companies come along to join together, some will disappear, other companies will try to replace but will not. Other individuals will try to replace them and will not be able to do so because they do not have money to do so. This is a lack of long-term stability. Then it is political short - term stability. There is a problem for such an enterprise that there could be a change of direction at any time, which would allow their feet to be pulled away from them. Of course, we should try to take a way that will make them more stability, a greater sense of leadership, not dependent on political winds, and at the same time try to build this up in a way that the long - term stability is present in the form of innovation and access to this through normal markets and normal commerce. [[The president calls.]] That's the way forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u180	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for the answer. Because we're talking about forethought and stability, our concept of reassigning a cut-off of 5% each year for reassignment, which is, of course, expected today, is between 95% and 20 years of age. I'd think it would be rather a little uncertain for an exposé, if she knew at any time that she has 95% of the rights she has, always to 20 years at the same time. In general, because of business, there is relatively little uncertainty about it. Then about the tax or the tax or what they want to call it, I think it's a price. I wonder when people talk about why it's not just taken out as some kind of interest or income tax: it's not the nature of the problem when you're paying access to a resource that you're paying for access to the resource, and it doesn't necessarily have to be, at least not fully, depending on the company's contribution at any given time? It's got to be so that they're going to download the resource knowing what they have to pay for and taking it into account. I think we should think of this as paying for the access, and that's what they're gonna do when they start off, they're gonna pay for the access, and they're gonna know how much it's gonna cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u181	Mr. President. Yeah, you're right. When we talk about access to a resource, we have to compare it with other resources. It is a tendency always to view fish as atrocious case, which he is only in that respect to the fact that this is an important business road for us. If a company wanted to remove stones from a mine, they would have to be paid for due credit. It could not be negotiated, and there would be no political battle for it at any time. Surely we can approach the natural value of people's resources. But the question is, What is the normal price? That's what slave's always about. Of course, we can make that a political decision, and we can calculate it back and forth with all kinds of formulas into the Ministry. But it will never be as accurate and just according to the actual guess as if the market had decided. So I always like it when we're talking about fees that can make some kind of competition for us to go there, which is where we're in the middle of a little more depression. When we talk about the distributions like those performed, we must not assume that everything will be allowed in the attic. It was referred to in a study earlier that said that an expiration of any kind would uproot the corporate money. It is only true if the companies cannot get more of the pot they have already returned by having access to it, either on the market or by some type of reassignment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u182	Mr. President. I wanted it earlier today to the highest. The discussion would include the prime minister. I had a clear understanding that she needed to do her official work and to have an invitation or an invitation to attend for an important female conference that is being held, and probably to do so. However, it's been invited, and then I stressed that I also had an understanding that she didn't have to come in here to sit and answer queries, but I'd feel like she'd be having a discussion tomorrow. I think it is important to know whether it is clear that the prime minister will be present tomorrow, including, in the morning. in view of what the discussion has revealed. It would be good and important for those taking the lead in the left green to come and explain their point, course, and viewpoint in this important matter and answer certain questions, since I may also feel that it speaks a little bit out and south. [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to ask for clear answers from the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u183	The president is aware that the prime minister knew that she was interested in having a word with her, that she was here for the discussion. However, the prime minister has both today and the following days a very regular program of the committee of the Women's Conference. There are quite a few foreign heads and distinguished guests. I think I'd have to do it in such a way that she would have some time to come and answer questions. I don't think we can expect the prime minister to be here, which is not the minister of the seminary and does not have this case, but is the highest. In the discussion and in the head of the employment committee, which had the case on their own custody committee, a top-level requirement is to expect Prime Minister to be here for the entire discussion. But she does not want to, as I believe, in general, that she has shown in her work what she can do to be in the matter of being in the Senate if it is required of her presence. But I know this after a conversation with the prime minister under the evening, that she has a very tight schedule for today and tomorrow. But she knows because she is interested in talking to her. I believe as president that since there is no prime minister and Minister of the jury, it would be necessary to be well-founded if a prime minister expects this discussion to be conducted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u184	Mr. President. I respect it, and I'm saying it's important that you get to the top. The prime minister of his office, and that is well. The other thing is, here came an entry from the highest level. Before today, the prime minister I consider to be correct and important to be clear because, in my opinion, the left green doesn't want a way of making peace in this important matter. I think we need to go over it. It's clear to the highest. Prime Minister does not provide much opportunities to cooperate and make peace. A better explanation is needed. Even as...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u185	Is this a fitting comment that the prime minister is far from the company under President's meeting board?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u186	V.E.G. President. No, I'm trying...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u187	Hv. A senator is here in a bullshit political bitch who is talking about a distant politician and is using a meeting board of Presidents.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u188	It's fine to have that example. I'm trying to explain why I think it's important to the highest. Prime Minister - I have already emphasized my understanding of the height. The prime minister of his office duties. I'm not throwing fingers into it. What I'm asking for is to the highest. The prime minister will be given an exact time, and I will rejoice if it happens, tomorrow. However, if that is not the case, I request that the stand be taken tomorrow to postpone the discussion until a prime minister can be here and answer questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u189	The president will contact the prime minister and find out what the possibility of her being here for tomorrow's discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u190	A respectable president. I just have to say that this demand is surprising. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, president of the Archipelago, and former Supreme Court. A sea chief minister, and now, both in the debate on hunting costs and in the Senate resolution of whaling, both cases that are in the highest order. Sea dignitary and agricultural minister, requesting other ministers, and in both cases prime minister. I think it's a very special, respectable president. I think all members of Congress should be pleased with the quality of attendance here at the Senate Hall and a good participation in these objective discussions. The head of the pro board, what? A senator has been a good participants, as well as a top. A minister who has attended and participated in the discussion. I think it best, Mr. Honorable President, that we continued this fine discussion that has taken place here tonight and tried to achieve a bit of a good time with the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u191	This will be held until midnight, as long as some people are moved to speak tonight, but apparently there is a lack of chapters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u192	A respectable president. I didn't mean to get involved. paritaprevir I was set on fire by Br ratherharald's Haraldsdóttir, for there is nothing new to call for political leaders to be in the chamber of the most unlikely cases. You can find examples of that, I think, in all categories. They have stood here demanding the other one and this one in the chamber. I think you can even find an example of this in the highest category. Prime Ministers that there was a requirement for a minister who was in a town or even a foreign country to drive home to be in this hall. [[Up front.]] I don't understand the comments that have been made, I have to say it. It's not unnatural, too, for the conversation of the day, so to speak. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir asks for this. I don't understand this kind of nervousness.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u193	Mr. President. I'd like to cut the same knee as that of a dog. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. I don't think it's exactly anything unusual about asking for the highest order. The prime minister is present for a discussion of hunting charges, the prime minister of the government, who speaks of increased consultation and cooperation with the Council and its debate, so that she can be asked what she felt about her view of the case as being forced through the General Assembly without a consultation in the confidentiality of the common resource, what she thought of the hunting bill, the resource industry, or so on the basis of the use of the common resource of the nation. To have a president in the middle of a speech because he has been referring to the way Congress talks - I stop believing that we have the President of all members of Congress here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u194	The president says thank you for the warm words.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u195	A respectable president. This article discussed strengthening the General Assembly. What are we talking about today? We're not dealing with a sea chief's bill on fishing expenses, we're dealing with the adjustment of the largest part of the Generalis, i.e. Work committee first and foremost. The bill has not changed since its appearance two months ago. The bill itself hasn't changed a bit. Senator. However, there was a change in proposal from the council we are discussing. It's the only thing that's changed. V.E.G. The prime minister has prepared a number of answers for a number of queries since the case. I don't know that she slipped away from answering questions about a bill. A fishing minister has had questions at the top of the government. Prime Minister. I just don't think it's up to the Council that we can't go on through 2nd. Since the biggest change is our own arrangement, it needs to be called the prime minister so that it can express itself about what we are doing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's just the opposite of the granting of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u196	A respectable president. We're here for a bill for a hunting fee and a change proposal. We deal with our resource, the only most precious resource our nation has in common and how we want to use it in the best possible way to benefit all of us. In fact, I'm not going to discuss this bill, because we don't support it, and we don't feel that a hundred are likely to slow down and think about it well before we can move on in this hot tub, perhaps in a slightly different way, the temperature changed, but little else. I prefer to discuss further the visions we should have of convergence and how we want to work at improving this system, making it more reasonable and just and practical, creating a safe management environment and forethought and ensuring as easily as possible in a swinging sector that it will achieve good results every year, as this article has generally done many in recent years. Mr. President. By the 1983 fishing law in Iceland's Fishland weekend, food was distributed on a fishing vessel based on the fishing experience of the years preceding, between 1980-1983. Then, by the 1990 government of the fishing government, there was freedom free transfer, rent, and sale of catchies. These laws turned the way in which the presidents of the fishing industry were placed basically in the water. It began a new phase marked by high economic management and compression of fishing and processing. In this way the number of companies has decreased, the most powerful companies have grown, and their profits have greatly increased. Increased scope for investment and technological development has improved the efficiency of fishing ships and fish farming and has led to further compression within individual companies and communities. Thus, the share of ten of the largest fishing sectors increased in total resources from 21% in 1984 to e.g. 53% in 2015. During the same period, an average of over half of their ports dropped, increasing by 75% at much fewer ports or 19 ports. As a result of these changes, the number of jobs we are doing in fishing and processing has declined dramatically. In 1984 there were nearly 6,000 years of fishing work and about 10,000 in the industry or about 14% of the year's work in the country. By 2015, some 4,000 fish fish were fishing, and nearly 4,000 fish industry had the main or total number of jobs in Iceland. At the same time, intensification of fish has increased to the southwestern corner of the country near the Cheflavour Airport and the Gulf Sea. The primary analysis of the control of fish is not about the crop system itself. It's about the holding of resources and price for the nancial rights. Despite the steady propaganda of powerful people, those who want to maintain the value of the ownership of riches, they have failed to turn the people away from their opposition. In practice, the General has, to a large extent, left the Commission to shape the current policies. Keep in mind that the provision of resources that the nation agreed on to put in the Constitution will require an equal approach to the full price. All of us can be sure that this in terms of ownership of the growth of the sector today cannot agree with that law. Now there is ample experience with the approach to the pressures of hunting fees. It's moving forward, as I said before, in this same pot, and the situation sums up the ownership problem. New recruits are paying full price for fishing warrants to say bidets. Maybe in cod, it's 170,190 k. for those who don't have a lot of food and have to rent goodbyes. The government then improves its resource expenditures on top. That may be 2,030Ks. per kilogram. This arrangement simply shuts down the access for newcomers. If governments want to gain the higher part of the government's money, they further close them to newborns'access by this method. It is a vicious cycle that also prevents evolution from becoming a natural payment for resources. In other words, the state hands over a special position to sell access to the industry. They arrive at the docks and collect full prices of new recruits and quotas. But when these same new recruits and valet workers arrive in the country with their resources, they come to meet the state and demand a sum of resources. This is a violation of equality between those who wish to engage in fishing and those who are already involved. The situation in general is unannounced to recent recruitment and greeting. Even worse, though, the owner himself, the people, receives only little for his return and is almost betrayed for the amount of money he receives for his use. This large issue of access to the nation's most valuable resource can only be restored to these exclusive rights and priorities. Instead, rights need to be set up to ensure a secure future operation. The changes in the system must ensure full equality will be set in order to access a hunting right, that the owner gets the full price for it, and thereby complete all priority for the use of the resource. In order for them to reach their aims by means of the current pantheon point system and by their free source, the State must be on hand for the people to participate in this business. The method presented in our transition to the bill to set up a fishing fee available here, but is not implemented in detail, rhymes with our main focus in the United States that we have spoken for many of the past few years. In this view, the change in the nature of the labor departments means that they always decline about 5% a year - this has been shown to be the case. Councilmen tonight - including those that the state has sold or given up. Thus, in reality, the nature of the labor departments, all of which would be as valid, would be affected only in this form. It is also possible to continue the business and the rest of the business arrangement in other ways. They have to go to the market every 5% of them every year, either from the state or other agents in order to maintain their own rights. This is a simple solution to the ownership problem but does not disrupt any of the remarking systems or other marine standards. The target system can also continue to develop, although its ownership problem would be permanently solved by the expiry of interparties. Thus, this way would be an arrangement that could lead to the future. It would be wise to offer the labor departments for sale with a steady supply on an open market but to leave other traders. By this arrangement, it would be self-employed that the price of a long-term meal rights, but, of course, other expenditures would drop as soon as government funds were responsibly guaranteed. In this process, fishing costs will turn into a price for long - term fishing. Special attention is especially needed when collecting collections that would be paid for the use of the tax paid in the form of what would be collected after the catch. The main advantage of this is that it would be solved in a simple way and would not need to be adjusted for the system itself, but the nation received a fair and normal reward for the upcoming rights. No problem would be placed in the Constitution of the national resources established by the nation. The constitution exists. The people of the country have created a constitution, we're just going to accept it. During recent years, those who wish to maintain their priority in providing resources have used extreme propaganda against all of the ways discussed and virtually talked about treason. The watchmen of the system go as far as possible to make the voices that want to change this state suspicious. Stated that the fishing companies went under the edge of the fishing industry have no place, because workers themselves are going to prize the fishing rights. The assumption that the large structure will further suck up hunting rights is highly unlikely. First of all, because in the present system, the big things have been doing just that. Second, because by this method, the fishing court constantly enters the market from the big industry. Third, a potential for regional invitations is open to strengthen the development and structure. Fourth, the resource costs should be partly used to strengthen marine areas. It is only natural that the resource resources' provision flows through a resource fund that can have multiple roles, not just to sea surfaces, but to all our resources, both to sea and to land, to the ocean's surface, and to what may be at the bottom of the ocean, or even below the surface of the ocean. By the rules that must be set for such a fund, there must be a possibility of making special trust in the marine landscape. Mr. President. Adjustments to this arrangement should not be difficult, considering the shocks and fluctuations that have been dealt with over the years, taking into account the price of the fishing rights itself. The people here are concerned that the habitats are viable and sustainable. It is not surprising that the fishing road can meet that goal. He's generally financially well-behaved. The environment is focused on water and has been very successful both in climate and fuel efficiency, and it has improved its shipping fleet and has been successful in working with cooperation to manage the resource carefully. The serious consequences of this article's leading to the social factors on the land, housing conditions, and survival of people who even watch alcohol and live fish just a few miles away from the country without having a chance to access the resource are unacceptable. This is what we must do and change. The person standing here fears that future generations will look sheeply forward to this time in which we now live with this in mind. How sad it is to witness the way all suggestions and accurate ideas have been taken, suggestions for change, and increase in justice and reasonableness in the system! At least Three times the Conspiracy has proposed that supplementary cod, a clean addition to the system and developers certainly have no claim, so that the market will be allowed to feel the value of the fish. The market, someone would now have believed that the major watchmen of the system believed in and trusted to set the record. The use of tenders and markets is most direct when a certain species of fish is introduced or added as proposed by the Institute of Marine Research. The cost of fishing is unlikely to be reached until it is determined on these market conditions. The design itself determines the cost of access to the resource, so simple, with market oers. It also prevents braking with the quathane. Also, because political whims do not control the demand for future changes from one term to the next, the offer is sustained for long - term environment. Now, an amendment that receives a reservation can put a full catch fee in its own pocket by selling and renting a quota to a third party without the government, the owner, saying anything about it. Mr. President. Of course, we in the United States would have chosen that the government that had a short place in the government a few months ago would have taken on our years with us. That she had declared clean support for our goals. But it didn't work. Come time, here's a piece of advice. However, in the meantime, a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gricultural minister did a great deal of good things for the brief amount of time given at the Ministry. She even ordered. A task force under Professor Þóroddur Bjarnason's direction of a review of the future rural vessel where there were some very interesting suggestions, including that there would be flexibility in the provision of groundwaters to cope with local circumstances that could contribute, possibly, to a greater variety of solutions to the seas'problems, including the development of other activities if there were no longer thought to be a basis for marine soil or to promote further diversity of work in the region. This, in fact, has already been a matter of mind in my own district. They miss opportunities to row around and to row on to others - figuratively. Unfortunately, the contents of this report have not received the information that they deserve, but the report represents them. Mr. President. I'm not gonna have this much further. The suggestions for hunting costs are given here, we think we're overdosing. We feel that there is more reason for us to open this up and give us a better time, to work better in the direction I mentioned, with the market as a slave, not as a master.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u197	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a good speech. He carefully reviewed his class policy, and I think it is important to keep it in place that although there are three categories that are common to the adjustment proposals, each class has a distinct category of emphasis. Therefore, it is so interesting to observe how our government groups take these combined efforts to unite in the issues we have agreed on, i.e. to achieve a solid agreement that the cost of using our shared resource is temporary - which is a key to highlighting the national partnership - and then the other to go to building up funds. We can go to all kinds of implementations, but this is certainly an effort to expand our cooperation in this important work. Today, normal comments have been made, including From members of the Independence Party - it may be that there is only one member of the Independence Party who has already spoken. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason - certain doubts that only one profession should be spent on resource costs. I'd like to agree with the basic prince who came to the conclusion of the resource charge from 2000 to add resource costs to all sectors, but that it would also have to start and then on the fishing road. I'm asking why. A senator agrees with me that this approach should be general; that, prior to the use of national resources, resources should be payable. And if he can agree with me that it's not unusual for us to start with the fishing grounds, but it's in parsity. A fish - control law says that the fishing grounds are the national share. Is it not only natural to start with a special law on the national resource rights of the fishery?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u198	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for answering. We're a small nation. We need all of us. Most complain about high taxes, families, and businesses. Then, too, they want much service. We need to make money in order to respond to calls and expectations of good public service. We have resources, as a group. We should enjoy them together. Of course, fishing is the most precious and unique. We also have more resources. We have hot water, cold water, and we have water - rights zones, which we have not agreed on how to operate, i.e. salmon fuel. The seafloor is about to begin working west at the bottom of the ocean. It's a resource we need to use. We need to develop a proper resource policy so that the nation can bring about this mutual advantage. Should we start with a fishing road? Of course, it is an article that is very stable. We're talking about it, and we're more and less agree that we're paying something to access the resource. We've reached that point. It is now heard less from builders that they own this resource. Since we heard that we had nothing to do with it, there's no doubt about it. [[The president calls.]] I think it's easy to start there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u199	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this answer that I felt was clear. We agree on paying a price for the country's common resources. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees that the sea route is a major industry, the most important profession in Iceland. We have more production in fishing than in any other industry. This is especially so because the system as a whole is very strong and very powerful. We've established a saying in the news, we've got sustainable fishing, responsible fishing. We have the expeditation of relics of significant significance, a measure of painful significance for certain areas of the land. In turn, the economic economy of the fishing has been enormously high, leading to a wise investment - or ability to invest in the article. I think that's how important it is for us and the whole country to have seen it. It is important that the profession such as industry enjoys a sense of responsibility. It has been observed by the Independence Party that normal dishes are not required. My opinion, then, is to avoid the fundamental princeship of the nation's share. By saying that the trial is premature, there is uncertainty - and there is bad messages in the article - for the article tremendously large. As members of the Independence Party said here today, the Senate can, in an instant, unwind the entire system. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that the approach we have, on a temporary agreement for 20 years, gives more confidence and stability to the arrangement than does a temporary agreement? So I'm not talking about the social injustice that has to do with untimely contracts. Rather, it's just what has to do with the self-explication and the uncertainty involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u200	Madam President. Thank you. Again, a senator thanking her especially for the amazingness of our profession, the progressiveness, and the strength of its power. That's gold, and we can't minimize it. It's a great business, so great it doesn't go anywhere. I'm surprised that, as wonderful as these ideas are, we have, that these great builders don't jump on them. [[Up front.]] They're being assured of success and security, I don't say for life, but for a very long time. Because it just keeps repeating itself. But this is the price, 5%, and then the price. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson set it up earlier. It's not insurmountable, is it? If someone is replaced with this care and management security? I think people should take a good look at this. But resource fees? This demand will be louder, and not just Iceland, but it seems to be spontaneous in every country. Of course, this differs with regard to the water main. But for other resources owned by nations - some have considerable resources, we don't have very many resources - we need to make the best use of all resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u201	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his excellent speech. I'm curious to know if there's a problem. A senator knows whether the much suggestions he made in his speech, which I would really like to remember that he was the cohesion of the fishing system, which I own. with financial, banking experts taking into account whether they would affect the quality of the loan, business, the financing of fishing companies if they were to succeed. Does the senator know that the proposals have been investigated, evaluated, to form an independent review office that manages business and finance of such enterprises on the day in and day out? I remember 2010 when our covenant committee was working that it was a similar idea, although it may not be that way. If I recall correctly, the conclusion was that people must be very careful about this, even if only because of the arrangement we have today regarding how these companies finance themselves, how they run, how they go for loans and other things. The short question is: Have the suggestions been assessed by experts regarding the business and prospects of these enterprises? Then I'd like to ask the senator, because Iceland has a lot of resources, a lot of resources: Does the Senator agree with what has been better and better this evening, that it's special to take out the water only when we talk about the use of resources, or what we call it, a price for use of resources? Could it be, and might it be just and appropriate to consider also other resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u202	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the questions. I'm so much of a kid in this field that I don't know what it is. I'll just give myself a heads-up and pretend it's been evaluated and taken into consideration at some point in the financing system. But I don't want to say anything about it. I don't think people's estimates of this system were very positive at the time. It was at the time where they just said, "I have this, I have this, and most of the value was in the fishing grounds. Yet, we say: If these designs have a guarantee of having access to literature for 20 years - a natural time of penance, or what? - That should be pretty good. But I'm afraid to say this. It's about whether this stuff shouldn't apply to all the resources, I'm totally at that opinion. We need to form a background on all our resources. It is only natural for the nation to have a clear common profit. It's just a regular trade of valuables, the fishing route, the fish. We have hot water, as I mentioned earlier, we have cold water. We have some resources in many places that we should make use of for profit together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u203	A respectable president. We need to ask ourselves a few questions when it comes to the resource use. First, what are resources? If we agree on this, we need to ask ourselves: " Are we going to collect annuity fee for the resources? If we agree on this, we need to get down on how we do it. If we go that way, we need to ask ourselves, " How high is the price to pay? ' We must be careful whether it's a fishing road or a company at a bookstore or whatever, that if we collect too much taxes or fees, whatever the name is, we can get to a place where we take the impulse from this article, from business, to reinvigorate ourselves, invest, hire employees, for innovation, etc. I think, for example. that the insurance we have today is too high. I think it'd be better to turn it down and change it. In this way the companies would be motivated to hire more staff and possibly invest something more. The same can be said of the resource fee, it should not be too high. There is evidence to suggest that the price is too high, e.g. for people who are fishing for bottom fish and working for them. Surely we must wonder how the price will go. Hv. The senator said in his speech, if I noticed correctly, that it should be paid a natural and reasonable price. So tempting to ask, and I may be putting the senator in trouble, I don't know: What is a reasonable and normal price? What's fair for access to a resource? Is it a dime of a size? That's 200 bucks.? What's a fair price? In the meantime, we must always have to make sure that those using the resource can continue to use it, as it were. A senator was talking about, that they can invest and create new opportunities. I'm worried about the side effects of the fishing road. I'm worried about all the big and small companies that are like... in Hafnarfjörður, Gardavón, Kópavogi, and other locations in the area of the capital, which are producing valuables because they benefit from strong fishing roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u204	I appreciate that answer. What Is a Normal Cost? That is what people would like to ask themselves. Isn't normal what you and me pay, or is the market ready to pay? That is why we suggest that the market be put to the test what men are willing to pay for, for example. I just agree with what. A senator when he says that there's a little tight dancing on the level of payment. When we talk about 5%, it is very moderate in view of what we have here. I don't think we can arrange it, however, except by contracts. We need to try to convince the developers that this is the best choice they could get from making a new agreement with the nation to access the resource in this way. There were other factors. A senator mentioned, for instance, a support piece of work that is of great importance. I am concerned about the supporting factors that were once powerful in my district, e.g. West to the Icefjord, but now the shadow of itself is after the deportation disappeared. It is the social weakness of this other sustainable system that is very good, they were changing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u205	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill for a hunting fee, a resource fee, and a comeback proposal. The person standing here recommended the opinion of the 1st cut of the employment committee during the days. According to this opinion, the 1st reduction in the need to produce the currency in the fishing grounds was made clear. I believe that the need for a fishing fee to be looked at the size and size of small and medium-sized productions is for step-by-step discounts. The evidence is that there are many smaller designs. Less deforestation yields to laws than to larger ones. These types are generally bound to use one species of fishing instruments, and often there is an external cost of acquiring money, such as weather and other factors, and income is fluctuated because of the previously noted causes. That's boats in a hook-up target system. It is a fact that within that category, hookmaking, there is also a large structure. Many of these groups have over 2,000 tons of salmon and have some 85% of the hook - power department. This has developed in the years since it was changed that the boats as many as 30 tons could be in that system. At that time, many saw a level that was highly dependent on their ability to invest in the fishing warrants and began making more money in the curve. They now feel that it is unfair, many of them, that they are paying the same price as those in the catch line where people can choose between fishing opportunities depending on how the rivers are, how they catch each other. Boats in the noxious target system must only hunt on hooks, and most is being drawn on a line. Just so I can get it in. They are knocking on the door to catch more fish. I would like to present a number of facts. According to Deloitte's assessment of the management of marine exports in the East, Grind Louis, the Western Islands, the Snowfells, and the West, it is reported that income has been reduced between 2◯8% and the EBITDA by 16◯43%. The biggest was the contractions of the fatfishers'companions. That even tells us. That fishing, fishing, and processing of the bullfish have been a major constriction. Hunting costs in 2017 were 74% of the profits made by seafood companies on the Snæfellsnes and the West. In Grinsavík, they were less than 83% of profits. The trend that has been during the past few years, that reduced productions and productions become counterfeits, is a trend I can't possibly accept. In fact, the structure is the foundation of many settlements, and it has been tolerated that much compression has been made in this article, and it will have many negative effects on the settlements of the country. It is clear to everyone that large dishes will always be better able to cope with hunting costs than the smaller ones. Within a few years, it could easily be a small number of large fishing projects around here. I've sometimes talked about it in speeches and literature that the large structure has a lot of space that they have not just a lot of water on a bullfish but that they have almost all the quattos in the seawaters and the same in the car, both the deeps and the rest of the car, which are naturally just fished for a roll. They are often included, if you can say something bad in Icelandic, more ◯Baffer to meet different situations in this article, which makes the big deed more suitable in this regard. In the year 2000, the Allied Fundament Committee produced an opinion. The role of the Committee was to deal with resources that may be national property. That's even. all the valuables in the ocean and on the bottom of the economy, as well as in the general population, rights and other outlanded countries, mines in the ground, energy in running water, and earth's heat. The Commission insisted that a consistent policy would be developed to manage the use of Iceland's natural resources, which created an entire legal frame on the role and responsibility of the State for the disposition and use of natural resources. And I ask, Is it fair that one resource is taxed above another? So, I would like to quote what has happened here before, that the person standing here recommended for the synonym that resource analysis and resource expenditure should be reviewed. This debate on resource costs would be more calm if we extended the discussion on that side, taxation, or resource costs. The source of this resource charge will be discussed. Everyone agrees that since the 1983 dinner, the benefits of the project changed from being held by the government to becoming self-sustained. Almost everyone agrees on that. This has been shown to be the case in a visitor's office. The job committee, and I especially remember when visitors came from rural areas in Western lands and included them. A chart showing that it is due to the fish fishing system that can be taken at resource costs. If we were to take over the changes in the system, I'll give it to myself, and many more, that it would be impossible for us to charge expenses, resource costs. I'm just so convinced of it. As I came before, I haven't made a change to this bill because I feel that the bill is a step forward. I would have liked to see, as I said earlier in my speech, that there had been a step-by-step discount and/or that groups would be taken individually according to some method, and a currency placed on each person according to the calculation that each one would receive. This would show the correct view of the survival of each class. I believe that this step is taken now is a step in the right direction, and then we can adopt this discussion in the future. That's why I didn't propose an adjustment. I've got it now in the media that I'm the spokesman for the big marketing project, the Spokesman of Láu or SFS, or I don't know what or what. I'm just a spokesman for every factory in Iceland, that's just the way it is. I've said that I feel that all fishing systems are entitled to them and that they should be a basis for all fishing opportunities and for all fishing teams to work on Iceland's coasts. I feel like the saying system is quite capable of offering it. But it has somehow developed in a negative debate over this blessed system, that small and many mediums, mostly smaller structures, and those who fail to stand in this uncertainty have seen the expected option of selling themselves out of the system. They have thought, " It's better to get away from this and be able to get away with the pocket, pardon, Madam President, rather than stand in this clot and see nothing in the future how this is going to depend on and whether the government is going to solve it again as it was here before 1983 and so on. In 2012, or so, the price we are now working on is to reform or, no matter what human views, is available to us. It comes up, especially this year when we're paying for the delivery of 2015/2016, it was a very good year, but it's a very lean year now and the dollar has been strong and fishing fees are high, and that's why people are unhappy with this fishing fee. It is a drop like this that fills the measuring line in the various types of development. That's why men think it's too high a hunting fee. I know a factory like that. has 200 billion. K. of EBITDA last year. She's paying 85 million in hunting expenses. In this landscape of development today, that reality, it tells itself that it doesn't work. If we don't do something about it, this situation will always come up again. Speaking of the lower fishing costs, they're reduced to the standards indicated by the calculations. It's just a fact to me. There's no decision to reduce hunting costs. That's not my understanding. I see my time is passing and most of the time I've come to discuss. I didn't expect to find out until tomorrow, so I hadn't built the talk all over the corner, but I think I've come most of the things I'm going to discuss, and this discussion will continue. That's for damn sure. Someday I'll find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u206	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I found it interesting when he discussed step - change discounts. For two, three Parliaments, I asked financial ministers, remind myself, rather than a sea emissary, what the status of the fishing fees would be if they were to be stepd so that no stress was paid for the first 3,000 tons of cod, but then it would increase by the number of cods, and what discount would be possible, if we were to use the money of such a step - torn system as to pay for fishing. The answer? I'd like to encourage you. A senator to look at it. I don't have the time to go over the answer because there are so many people who are going to say I'm only gonna get one minute. But I'd like to ask why. A senator wants to see if he does not like the step - apart stress, or he wants to look at it, just like a step - apart discount.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u207	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. In itself, I am very open to examine both mentioned by the senator. What I'm talking about and trying to get into this talk is that these groups are so different that we have to react somehow. But these discounts and e.g. Ten percent stress in the respirator sector, 10% off cryoprecipitations, and another one tells me that this procedure is defective and needs to be treated with patches, as I have said. But I'm willing to take a look at both. I'm not going to get caught up in that I agree completely with that, but I'm open to looking at it. It's crystal clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u208	Madam President. The answer I received when I asked about size loads and wanted to know if we put pressure on those who had the biggest box and made the most, so to speak, and could have an extra million if we could just use them to make smaller discounts. I asked who would pay the catch fee if we had it like this and the answer was that of 1,140payers in 2014 (in 2014)2015, 1,120 would be free. I find it a little exciting if people don't want a message on the market that we're looking at a gradual price. I asked the following years how this would work if we put 50 percent of our stress on more than 4,000 tons, and the answer was that 22 companies would pay that amounted to 72% of all of them. I think it's exciting, too. We have an arrangement and an opinion of so many ways to achieve increased income from those who truly make a lot of money. But the suggestions we are discussing are about a discount for the smallest one, and the great work that beats gold, they will enjoy it. If you don't want a sale on markets, we're supposed to watch this from the size and size of the economy and they're supposed to pay a higher catch fee. It may counteract compression along the way. What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u209	V.E.G. President. The senator's questions and answers are worth all the attention. Maybe it's a question when the senator got these numbers whether they were behind them -- these are pretty few companies who would pay -- that the companies were able to continue operating. That may not have been true to the story. This is not necessarily a link between the amount of interest paid and the amount that can be paid for resource costs. The largest projects, some of them, have foreign business, and money is linked to that and so on. But I find this interesting and excited to look into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u210	Madam President. Actually, I was going to go in a very similar direction. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir. Of course, enterprises are in a slightly different position after work, on the other hand, in management, and in other aspects. It is well known that large companies tend to expand faster than smaller companies on a normal year trip. This contributes to the growth of the dissociation between the largest and the smallest of the enterprises, unless something is done to keep them going. There have been some suggestions, e.g. Just now, just before, about some sort of step change on the fishing fees. However, there is reason to ask, " Could it be possible to fix any defect in the system that makes larger companies have something more than a operating economy that allows them to expand beyond the smaller companies? ' I wondered, where it was. A senator has a very long experience with seamanism, whether he can point to any of its examples, not necessarily in the fishing system as such - but even there - but also in other parts of the operation where there are factors that lead to the indiscretion. I think maybe it would be normal not to go into some step - change arrangement and that companies just paid the same amount for each kilogram of caught fish. [[The president calls.]] Of course, such ideas are positive if you assume that it cannot be corrected in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u211	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. This is how greatness is important. It's easier for a big company to grow more. But there are also a lot of designs and probably a lot of companies, so they don't want to grow up, they just wanna make it. I am, for example. with my company, which is just such a small family business. Although I'm a big carpenter, it's because I'm nearly two meters old. But is everyone paying for the resource evenly? This discussion has naturally been discussed extensively. I don't agree, just on the basis of what I've traced, that it differs from how companies are put together. It has nothing to do with the business of each company, whether it's bad to good, but the situation is that they don't have the ball volume to be able to pay more than the big, though some calculations show another, which I'm not necessarily sure that I really believe. But as I understand the senator's question, I don't agree that everyone should pay evenly. And since step-change was mentioned, it's such a forced protection in this other defective bill. That's why I made this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u212	Madam President. I'm not against step shifting. I think it's a good idea. Yet, I always find it interesting to see if there are not any other factors that promote and promote discrepancies that could be reduced simply. And now I'd like to say that it's not the politician who doesn't talk positive about an SME and the need to take care of them, at least before elections. But that is exactly that place - or like a cot. A senator rightly pointed out that some companies do not want to grow up. Not everyone wants to conquer the world. Some people just want to be on and off. When the charges have been set, and I have recently traced them in articles, that the pressure has been put on smaller parties by always raising the fees against so-called lower taxes, so that somewhere there could possibly help companies of the smaller types to survive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u213	V.E.G. President. I'm not sure I've got everything that I had. A senator said. Yet, we do agree that we want all sizes, all types, to survive. But what I'm worried about, as I've said many times before, is that by this continuation unchanged, provided they're going through which the greater part is, there's still the change that this is a step in the right direction. But I'm still worried that the compression will continue. That's where my worries are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u214	Madam President. This is an interesting discussion, and I'd like to discuss just working conditions. Hv. A senator spoke of the survival of all fishing companies. So you might ask, " Is it normal for me to set the criteria that all my enterprises, forever, will always be able to survive, and if there are other professions that have such conditions? ' A small construction company, such as. to pay half a dollar for property while a large price is in full? We won, for example. we designed to offer a job because it's a limited resource. Does the senator feel that there is a completely different law on this business? Could it be that there would be a positive incentive if workers had to compete a little for limited quality? Could it be that newcomers in this article? Then, of course, I make it clear that we find ways to support the settlements that may be dependent on this in some way, not on the self-employers. It's the settlement that matters. It can't be the goal of ensuring one industry to rule out a possibility. That is not the case in any other business. Does he not believe that the temporary agreements, as required by the adjustment of the proposal, are positive steps to ensure the lack of leadership?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u215	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm not talking about keeping lives in some company that works hopeless business or stuff like that, but I'm saying that making groups are very different and different how to calculate it by each category. There are very few e.g. who pay their bills. You only survive the pay they have in smaller and medium-sized companies, many of whom. It follows these companies with certain the most structured enterprises, and that's what I've been talking about. I'm not talking about helping companies who are not in good business, if I've understood the senator's question correctly. To help communities, it is the local builders who pick up the fish from sea to sea. Which one precedes, the chicken, or the egg? It's a little hard to figure out. But those fish that row, that's just the way they are. The built-in layer itself does not reach fish, man on boats.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u216	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has just described the traditional Icelandic business, including the one in the country, when he spoke of it as just an honest business where people were entitled to pay their wages and did not earn any money. It's an old story and a new one. But with regard to solidity, there are plenty of measures that we use to keep alive through deforestation. We've got graffiti, we've got all kinds of moves. They can be absolutely right. However, rather than always pumping into counterfeiters to keep up in places where they live, does the senator not find just as interesting to look at, rather than being able to get this money and perhaps develop another type of professional life? In fact, not all small places in the country may be suitable for the kind of life that was made in 1900. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u217	V.E.G. President. That's absolutely right. Change of times and conditions. Since the senator came into that place, I've never been fond of settlements, I say it right here and now. He's usually just been to argue about it. He has not necessarily helped the communities as such but has been satisfied with something, my quota, or something like that. But I agree that we should look for ways to help ◯ broken - down our ability to look for new opportunities. I'm starting to see as a new senator that this debate is changing far and wide around the country, people talking about the situation, and what you can do in the future instead of looking in the rearview mirror, and having gone by goodbye, for example. I completely agree with that senator over there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u218	Mr. President. I can't allow myself to identify these peculiar situations here. This is a request that we stay together until late into the night in order to have a serious discussion on these important matters and on this important bill. But if you watch the rosary, it's like it's broken into the government's wing. They suddenly fall off the list, first down him and then out of him, and leave us alone here, except at the time. A senator and head of the pro board. I just think it's rude and stupid, if you don't mind me being so gross. I think maybe we should just aim the discussion at a normal day's work, if the council members are going to play the game of straddling on the mollusk, and then jump off it, like this, to sit in the front, eat cookies and laugh.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u219	There have been several members of the Parliament who have either disbanded themselves or wished to be brought below and below, but there are also limits to how long they can be treated. In general, the rule is that if a person has registered himself to a talk, he should be present at that time. If they don't, it's right for them to fall from the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u220	Mr. President. I wanted to get in touch with this exact point. paritaprevir Logi Mayr Már Einarsson came in. This is something special. It's a requirement to stay until midnight, not that you make it happen, you know it, you know it, you know it, you know it. The president also knows how to stay here. I'm not measuring that up. This is not a role model, especially when the people who insist on meeting will always go down and down on the speaker's list. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that there's only one out there. A senator from the left green has spoken, one from the Independence Party, none from the advance. Where is the board of directors in this discussion? Where's the board to answer for even absolute bioversion, including Candidates, in making temporary contracts? I thought about it first. The members of the board do not trust themselves to be here until midnight to participate in a discussion and always move down and down, whichever is the highest. The president would not simply be doing the greater part a little bit of good by postponing meetings until the people are confident that they will come here for a talk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u221	A respectable president. I agree with the members of Congress who have spoken here. The presence of our deputy councilmen is a strange journey, and I had now expected that the climax of that existence would be just looking at it. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Otttir's Óttarsson Proppér gives a talk in which he would argue for his firm support of this bill that has so clearly been presented in the media. To tell you the truth, I've admired the passion that has been there. But now I've been robbed of that joy, so I have to wait for a better time, either watching television or not at all, because the senator seems to be missing altogether from the rosary. I wondered: " What forces of nature have caused shyness? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér? What forces of nature make him feel shy and choose not to come up and speak? That's what I'm asking. I don't expect a president to have the answers, but I miss not being able to have a conversation here and a place to say. A senator. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, I understand that...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u222	Mr. President. It's been strange to watch the speaker's file tonight, since they're either fleeing the list or out of it. I agree with those who say that being unable to engage in conversation is disappointing. Councilmen in their support of the bill. It's also very pathetic for people who watch the rosary and calculate when they're supposed to fall into speeches when men go in large amounts out of the list. Of course, something may come up, people have to run home because someone's got the fattest at home or they need something to scour and do. But as it has happened tonight, there is a strange cloud of activity and asks questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u223	Mr. President. I'm assuming you've had two. These discussions have been discussed by members of the council. However, the seminar was much longer today when a longer conference was requested to make room for this discussion. So we had become unuttered because we, on the side of the government, looked forward to dealing with the problem. Directors of the Government's declaration of their change. They have worked hard enough to challenge us for our changes and perhaps it is time to discuss their own matters. Instead, we are alone in the evening meeting that the government requested. This is a very tragic practice, Mr. President, and I don't quite understand why. Congress officials are not interested in talking to us about hunting expenses. They are very interested in our changes, but I am very sorry to see that they are not interested in talking to us about their changing proposals and their bill in this hall. [[The president calls.]] I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u224	Mr. President. I'd like to inform the president that after watching the rosary travel all night long, I've basically got an idea for a new program that I may be able to build that will monitor the whole course of the intervening files and count together who are the most relevant potential candidates for travel. I think it might be quite interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u225	That must be helpful information.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u226	Yeah, definitely. I have a feeling that there is a pretty strong correlation between the failure of the speakers and the lack of involvement in the conversation for some reason, perhaps as we have seen tonight that representatives of the board are reluctant to be on the rosary tonight. I don't know exactly why, but it's interesting. Of course, we should pick them up. In the meantime, I think we should send out search groups to find all these missing senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u227	Mr. President. Now it's coming to the light that you feared, that great tiredness would get to the why. Congress officials who are assigned to work long hours at their place of work. I think most people have a hard time. Senators showed up from one hour to the next. 8 and 9 to work, to care for committees and other important tasks. Now it's time to find out that the human race is quite tired, showing that such a night meeting is delirium. I'm mainly surprised that fatigue appears to be a bit stratified, i.e. Councilmen seem to have fewer endurance than the U.S. government. I don't know exactly what it is, but I understand that people are tired and want to stop giving talks here late and some of them don't prepare well enough because there's such a hurry to the rosary that the person who thought he should speak after three, four hours suddenly has to stand up and deliver his speech. [[The president calls.]] But I understand the board is tired.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u228	V.E.G. President. It is not new to have a lengthy, especially in big languages, a language that most people believe is not new. Besides, there is no new possibility that there are any changes in the telecommunications file. What has caught my attention tonight, however, is that there is an unusually high level of movement or application for members of the council who live in a house. Of course, it's like putting them on a rosary and seeing that they don't get to it until the next day, or something like that, and then they start caring for other things normally. Now, however, it has been said that the cake table has been much fun with members of the council and less fun at the Senate Hall, and even members of Congress who have been registered have focused on the cookies rather than on being here in speeches, a respectable president. We must expect that tomorrow will be filled with rulers to talk about this remarkable matter. [[The president calls.]] I see why. paritaprevir Pawel may be very upset about missing out on the talk of a Kolbeinn of Kololin Ottir's Óttarsson Proppér, whom I eagerly look forward to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u229	The president would like to say before the next round begins that he is in line with what is presented here, that it has to be limited to how much is rounded with the micirium file. In general, presidents have been drawn to moving people only if that is the case with them, but it is obvious that if too much abuse occurs, such things can become a cause for dissatisfaction. So from then on with these encouragements, the president will become more rigid in not making changes in the rosary. That was 2nd. the budget and this process is growing in this discussion of fishing costs and, by any means, enough. From now on, it will be very rigid to keep the CV in place as it is installed from the beginning. This means, however, that the members of the council know that they must be present, or they will disappear from the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u230	Mr. President. I'd like to suggest a president he says it's a good thing tonight. I've had enough of this bullshit about the speaker's file, or we're gonna let it go. paritaprevir Óttarsson Proppér Prope, sitting in the hall. He's ready. I am ready to give him my place now in my second speech. But I think it would be just a fair and good idea, Mr. President, that we made this a good name. It's going to be 20 minutes, or 17 minutes, walking to 12 and we're all supposed to be here early tomorrow morning. I have, for example. After driving the Smokey Lane, and I'd love to leave now. And I'd get to start my discussion tomorrow with my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u231	The President intends to stick with the day's plan, to meet until midnight, although he will not be reinvented after midnight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u232	A respectable president. I have to say, I'm just a little bit of a thinker. I just don't like what you're doing. Governments object to taking me as a sort of thing - they might think it's funny and funny, I'll experience it as a group attack on me. I think it's incredibly trivial of what's happened. ... inconsistencies. It's made me feel like I'm here some unfeeling freak who can only be dealt with by some political character. There's gonna be a second. Unforgiving authorities, excuse me, do not comment on this discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir, I'm not on the roster. It's just that way. It is my right; just as it is my right to speak, so it is my right not to speak. I'm gonna pray. Councilmen in their political character here must not be taking one of their fellow members for what they have done here, one after the other. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u233	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A president for finally giving me the word, but it has been quite a while since I asked to speak, quite ahead of time. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér. I'm very sorry to hear how personally he's taking it, but I couldn't hear better than that most people were referring to a lot more cases. Senators, but hiss. There were more than one and two who were here in the hall and were on the rosary when they took off, which I consider very interesting. I'm glad the President's intention is to respond in a way that can't be treated any more with the rosary. But I agree with what. Harðardóttir It's just a little late for your butt. It's quite possible to observe the rosary tonight and how it's done with the senators. So it would normally be best for us to complete a meeting now and give them a chance to prepare our talks tomorrow so that we can go home.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u234	The president asks why. Tenth. That's the north side. Honors, but neither president nor assistant noticed. A senator had requested the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u235	You both nodded.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u236	I'm sorry, it wasn't written down in any way. There's been some conflicting head movement. Of course, there is no other than to give the word for the chairmanship of the president in the order they ask for it, as we are most able to take it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u237	Mr. President. I came up here to discuss the alibi of some members of the council of the greater part. I thought it was eight o'clock. The members of the government would have moved below or out of the rosary as it had been before nothing so long ago. As I said before, there are only two of them. This matter was addressed by members of the administrative body, and it has been discussed for two meetings. This is what we make comments about ourselves. It was a big hurry to finish this case that we had to take part in that evening meeting. But there was no interest in talking to us about this matter except to come up and answer us, not to give us a chance at the same thing. That's the whole thing that's going on here, and that's what we're pointing at here. When we look at these events, Mr. President, you wonder if the purpose of this is to stop the matter now in the shelter of the night, whether that's the point of all these exercises together, or whether or not. Congress officials just don't want to talk about government opposition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u238	Mr. President. I remember hearing a story about some president who was then pissed off about being late and ill again at the council after a lunch break. He complained about it, and then he took advantage of his Presidential authority to handle a program that was considerably lower on the program, a bill of disappeared men. I thought it was pretty funny, but I wanted to pray to the highest level. The president is now taking advantage of his presidency to end this meeting and allow us to pick up the thread again tomorrow when everyone is well asleep, when the government's members may be more present, will be refreshed for the discussion, even to the point. As the situation has been going on tonight, this has not necessarily been the best that the Council has to offer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u239	A respectable president. I welcome the declarations of the president, but as I love this workplace, I wonder why it has to be this way. Why does this need to be so? There are many people who obviously have strong opinions on matters in both directions, and they could have been offered to the people in the country for quite a better and more objective discussion than this. Government officials were more concerned with the prominent members of the committee's opinion than with that of others. When I spoke, my interest was different. The government's situation needs a little discussion. I think it would be much better if we just took advantage of the time we have here in the house to reason with one another. I think it would just do much better. Then I agree to ask you to postpone a meeting. It is shocking if a man prepares one speech and is ready for it, but he has to do something else in some way because the seminar is not predictable. [[The president calls.]] I think this request is valid and I want a president to be with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u240	V.E.G. President. I think it's a good thing that the President reviews the direction and regulations of this proverb book. I think it's also nice to discuss it with members of the council next time they meet. I'm still a little surprised, at least. President, at the word as it is. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé was used in this program, especially because the fine senator comes from a class that has probably been used by one person to corrupt the shoe from other councilmen and councilmen. I'm going to ask him to give this speech first to his party. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u241	Mr. President. I agree with what has been said here, I strongly recommend to the President that he interrupts a meeting. Not that we are in a position of government, we do not want to continue to discuss this. We would like to hear from others on the board of directors. I have to admit that as soon as there was a certain joy of hearing the talks of more council members, I don't like people - even though I don't agree with them, we're here to blame one another - I don't feel comfortable here. That's why I think that would be a good idea. The president simply interrupted a meeting until tomorrow so that we all become a little more cheerful and gentle with one another. I have never felt comfortable with myself in this councilroom. If that's the way it is with certain members of the board and the administrative body, I don't want them to feel that way. [[The president calls.]] I suggest the president interrupts a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u242	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for how well the president makes those comments. But I would also like to remind Mr. President that in the Treaty, there is talk of expanding the authority of the council and that in matters that are of great importance to the nation for the long future, new work practices need to be used, increased consultations, and debates across the ranks. Now the issue was not presented for this discussion, so that there would be no consultation with us in the position of government. It didn't go into the problem of consultation. Even if the officials have answered us, they are not going to talk about it. I think the President, to uphold the Senate's respect and respect the Treaty, should postpone this discussion today and give men the time to recover tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u243	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the tolerance I've been shown about moving me to the rosary. I didn't figure it out by that smoothness. To be honest, I wasn't quite prepared for tonight to arrive so on time for a talk, but it jumped off the handle of two or three senators. Of course, I had hoped that as we discussed our modern and forwarded policy in this group, we would have communication with the officials, that they might see or hear the light, and that we would have a lively discussion, even though I would not be willing to take away the discussion we had. They were useful, and I think the eyes of many have opened up, and they will converge our course with the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u244	Mr. President. I just want to think that I'm one of the council members who've spoken up and answered. I have not avoided it, unless less is it, and perhaps I will speak again. I'll draw attention to it, if we could continue our discussion, that there are five member members of the nine at the top of the speaker's list. Five legislatators waiting to give their speech. All the talk that the government, the Generals, is avoiding the natural debate, as it is at times, on evidence. Let's just keep talking, Mr. President. Then perhaps it will be time for us members of the government to say something, and then we will finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u245	Mr. President. The discussion gives evidence that humans are getting a little tired, and they may not think entirely of the clarity they have. On the other hand, I reject it as a dog. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason notices that there are excited senators waiting to discover. I make my suggestion to the management side to, with permission of the Supreme Court. The president and the president would bring down the council members that these fine senators could get into the platform right away, and then we will proceed in the remaining half of the year. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I think that would be a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u246	Mr. President. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and agree with it. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson's son, and he proposes to do so. Congress officials, who are the next three at the rosary, would like to have the highest order. The president merely turned his rule not to play with the rosary and move it down to the bottom. paritaprevir Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson can give his speech now. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. Government senators are also willing to stop talking about the President's conference board to let go. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson in the speaker's chair. Otherwise, I reiterate my opinion and request to the President that he simply every meeting so that we can resume fresh tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u247	A respectable president. I was on the rosary, and I kind of waited two days to get a start. It's been going half slow. It's also maybe because I'm a big A-tip, kind of just an AAA, I need energy to keep going when it gets so late. I kind of need a third energy package to get involved. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But my speech has a great deal of daylight, and I'm gonna wait until tomorrow with her.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u248	Mr. President. I'm glad that they come back to government council members. Obviously, they are ready to go a little cheerfully into the night. We can continue the discussion because they are so excited to hear what we in the government groups have to say about it. It will come alive, and they won't fall asleep over them speeches, so we must be able to keep a considerable bit of a night, Mr. President. Isn't it? I'll lay it at least Unable to open wpa_supplicant wpa_supplicant
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u249	A respectable president. I welcome the suggestion. paritaprevir Jón Thomas Steindór's Valdimarsson that we give to those who are prepared and prepared for a sermon an opportunity to let their light shine. But as soon as I'm on top of it. A firm president when he says that it probably needs to be handled firmly when it is due. The senators have registered to the speaker's file and are so out of place when tests were made, as far as I know, that we had agreed to discuss here until midnight, and they signed up on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u250	A respectable president. I just realized that I don't fully understand whether the government's gonna want people to go down on the rosary or not. Looks like it's him. The government really just wants to decide what's going on here. Not just wants -- if I can talk about it, then what? More gjammari Logi Einarsson. [[Up front.]] Not only does she want to determine who is on the rosary, force me to go to the rosary with some childish phrases here in a pit, but she also decides when people talk and take the program from the president. Should we not try to conduct ourselves here as members of the Senate and follow a program set before us? It's time for the senators on the rosary. Why don't we just let this go on? I've been on the rosary, I've been reassigned because others would need to get away from me. And last time, I think it was a why. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson, I'm expecting to be president of a party, who went up for me. I just thought it was normal. It's also come to me and say, "Hey, there's nobody in the house, you have to go to the speaker's file, and I've done it. I believe the President establishes strict rules that from now on there will not be a disagreement with the rosary, that people will register, and that they will be followed. [[The president calls.]] If not in a house, people simply fall off it. I'm all for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u251	The president asks why. Councilmen must be balanced in their choice of words. No further transfer requests will be received at this time. The President intends to stick to his plan for a meeting until midnight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u252	Mr. President. Before I give my speech, I want to say that I made the mistake of thinking at ease. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé would have moved down to the rosary, since he's been on the rosary almost all day until the evening. If I'd known what to do. Of course, in my kindness, a senator would have taken off the rosary if I hadn't offered him my space. That's the way it is. I look forward to having a place to say. A senator. I hope now he answers me in this talk, which is, of course, only 10 minutes, so I have to go to a husk and start with it. Mr. President. A national agreement on the subject of a new constitution from October 2012 revealed the nation's urgent support for the provision of lasting natural resources, that rights would be assigned to a particular period of time against the ultimate currency and in a clear and objective way. The result must be followed and the introduction of a comprehensive resource policy on the basis of sustainable development so that the nation will benefit from its resources. That's why I'd like to agree with the members of Congress who have talked about it here tonight that not only watch fishing costs but all of their resource costs. Earlier this year, I sent a question to the secretary of finance to ask him what it would be like if we were to charge the energy companies the same way they do in Norway what we would get in the state funds. The answer was that we could get 7 billion bucks. Of course, it is that we gain interest in land activation, not money from personal activation. We should look to Norway in this regard. What they do in Norway, too, when it comes to energy companies, is to pay the farm society, but they also take special note of the community's protection initiatives. I think this is a good idea, and I think we should look to Norway when we want to improve our resource policy. Mr. President. When we have an important system designed to survive in a very long time, such as in the management of fishing, it is very important that all three support for sustainable development, the economic, the environmental, and the social. There will never be an agreement on a fishing regime, neither charge nor control of this system, our highly important valuable valuable valuable system, unless we take account of all these factors. It's been so clear from tonight's discussion that the social side is not at all at all at all. We have to find a way out of it. In the early 1980's, the environment was underping, as the fish stocks were overfished by Icelanders. A year later, the system was added by means of a source supply so that the economic support of the system would be supported. It is safe to say that both have had trouble with sea areas and that the third foundation was weakened, i.e. the social reconciliation. The proposals for the provision of fishing and funding building in the country are aimed at sending a third support to the second fine system that we have developed and are still developing over the important sectors of the fishing industry. Advertising can be made available in all kinds of ways. I thought that in this discussion, we should look at the reviews that scholars sent when we were discussing the macrollar bill at the time. It was an American scholar, and then Norwegian, graduate experts, who pointed out ways that could be taken into account in order to make the campaign available, taking into account settlements, taking into account the particular status of smaller outputs, for example. If we were to go out to the markets, I would choose that the most skilled experts, national and foreign, would be given the opportunity to design the invitation in the light of experience with other bids, such as the Faeroe Islands. One picture could be this: Documents would be offered in three time categories, to a year, to three years of age, and to eight years of age. That's the slow way. Or that we can publish 5% each year and that our dinner will be renewed in 20 years. We can have a part of the invitation to open sales for all eyes online and a second piece with a closed outlet. We could also go on to see that internally active fishing work is permitted to participate in a export and deliver it to be made up within a time frame to secure raw materials. There are all kinds of exports that can be carried out, and that is, of course, done. When we use invitations in various business dealings, we use them in various ways. If the right course is to correct the offer of injustice, which means that the benefits of economic management within the fishing field fall into the pockets of few people living in the sea. At the same time, the release of new ones in this article will help. Fish markets in Iceland are good models for marketing solutions. In the United States, fish and fish are bought at commercial prices every day. This enterprise has no other business insurance but that tomorrow's bid market will be active. Once the trade has taken place, there is no debate about the price of fish in a fish market after that, because the buyer and the seller have agreed on it. All of the land's fish industry has equal access to markets, and the use of fish production is thus much easier than in the fishing industry. Now, those assigned to eat dinner can put a full catch fee in their own pockets by selling and renting a salad to a third party. For example, last year's two - and - a - half - a - half - year - olds have had to pay more of their produce. for a pound of cod in the fishing fee, while the state collects only 22 cents. In this year and in the board of directors, this figure wants to go down to 13.8k. in 2019 C.E. You see, there's a bid on labour clearances in Iceland. Thus, it is not only directed by government officials, and the benefits do not flow into government funds but also into the pockets of laymen renting out the greetings that the State has distributed to them. The results of the Marine Research Agency from foundering bottomfish in Iceland show that the year 2014 and 2015 catchers at 2018, or next year and next year are at long-term average, so the reference population is expected to grow. What, then, are we going to do? Are we going to extend an additional message to those who already have a greeting? In the past 10 years, the codfish has doubled, from 130,000 tons to over 26,000 tons. We've taken all the extras and distributed them to those on a surface, except for more than 5% going to the settlement. What justice is there in this? If we look at these thousands of tons, would it not be advisable to take the step at least to provide the extra supply and boxing? 130,000 tons of cod have just come in this way, and we have just done this addition to seamen, and I'm going to let me tell you what's going on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u253	A respectable president. Just in the beginning, I want to thank you. A senator for the explanation she gave in the beginning of her speech. I appreciate it. I must admit that I am a little confused about listening to another fine talk. A senator to whom I think he has very interesting ideas in the fishing business. I enjoyed listening to her talk about them, even though I do not always agree with them. But because I haven't understood it any other than that there are many of them here. Councilmen at least discussed these famous changes in the memory of the section with this bill, which, of course, is not being discussed with an invitation. I thought why. A senator is talking about that at least an extra supply should be offered, for a time I thought I was listening to him talk about a case he's got, if I remember correctly, in running. Hv. Government opposers have complained about this, and some have gone so far as to ignore as if we government officials do not fully understand the language that has gone on with government opposers and are deliberately trying to mislead or turn around. In fact, many of the major media of the country are on our side. I think this discussion will explain why some of us find it difficult to understand exactly what the suggestion is. I can't understand it any other way, so here people have just been talking about an invitation, an auction route on fishing warrants, warrants, and I've heard many other authorities discussing that it's not what's in the proposal. I just want to ask you what. Councilman: The new proposal for tenders like what? A senator was describing his case here just before?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u254	Mr. President. Change is a backup. Of course, we want to dismiss the matter. However, for a warning, we have an adjustment form that we hope to bring together, first of all, about temporary negotiations, and the turning of the fishing fee to the part of the country, i.e. when we have paid the cost of running a fishing road in the country. 2nd. the bill is about the whole bill. 2nd. is not just about a change in plans. Now I was discussing a number of methods of exporting and ideas about what we could do rather than going along that way. A senator supports and wants us to leave and the rest of the party to be desired. I was looking forward to making a statement to the General's Council on the adjustment of the more part of the employment committee on the discount and change in it. I'm excited to find--and I know I shouldn't be asking why. A senator, and I don't get to do that because he has decided not to go to the rosary this time - some member of the council to ask about the cost of this proposal. I can't see how much this proposal costs. We know that the discount that it is today is 200 to 300 million. K. but the adjustment suggests an increase in heart rate of 113% to the first 6 million and 52% for the first 9 million. This must cost a little more than 200 to 300 million. [[The president calls.]] Maybe a what? A senator told me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u255	A respectable president. Yes, even if it is not a tradition, it is likely to answer such a pointed question. As I have understood this, and now I do this according to mine, the additional discount is to our proposal, i.e. the one at the discount, about 200 million. The combined total is 4703/480 million. It's half a billion. Honorable President, do I have a minute or two?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u256	One.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u257	Then I'd like to use it to stay here and ask why. A senator. It would be nice to get an explanation, for I wasn't listening to a description of the adjustment proposal. It's this with--that I find very noble and good--that we're going to make use of our resources in the parts of the country. I think it's a very difficult suggestion to contribute now, and I don't recall the decision that the profit of resources in the national community is going to the national part of the country. Should it go to Reykjavík? [[The president calls.]] In the capital area, we should get some of this, or should we get nothing? Does this mean that the capital city will not receive any of these? When did we decide that this was not to go to poverty or not to go to the building of a national hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u258	Mr. President. It was now my memory that it was in 2012 that we were in the government together, the Conspiracy and the Left Green, and an investment plan was created. We were getting out of the crisis and had managed to kick our legs and plan for the future. That is when we watched our 2012 fishing fees and set up an investment plan. It took over all parts of the country. Much of the fishing fee was to be done to strengthen the national application programme and either into cultural, commercial, or investments in the national part. However, building work in Reykjavík was to be done; all parts of the country were to be enjoyed, of course. This is the idea of our proposal, for it is a national partnership, so all rural areas in the country should be allowed to enjoy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u259	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I'd like to remember that it is about A year later, a meeting committee on the Sea Scourges and the Death Committee on Fish Product Remuneration was working. Then came the report from the chairman of that group. That's where we even came from. ... thatthe representatives of all classes who served on that excellent committee would have agreed that currency should be based on temporary use of the fishing resource. In fact, it has to be noted that one group did not agree with that, and I believe that this was the Independence Party. But the forwarding rate and left greens agreeed with this process. I'd like to hear a little bit of what we're talking about. A senator with this. How is it that it is as if the Independence Party somehow got over the upper hand of these groups with all the policies involved? Then I'd like to ask. I've only tried to look into the class policy and even the rest of it. I've been looking in the direction of the left green. I allow myself to read a few sentences, with the permission of a president: ▪VG wants the breakfast of the present picture removed in steps and to reinvigorated on the basis of community interests, country, and employment. Counts 'em out. Senator, e.g. This agreement in the direction of the green and green is somehow incompatible with the ideas proposed by the Piratars, woodlands, and Convergence?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-11-26-38.u260	Mr. President. First, maybe the second question. In fact, I think these four groups, revered, Piranar, Convergence and VG could quite work out a way of making peace. No pack might get everything, but everyone would get something. Involvement of temporary negotiations may be possible. In any case, they have spoken in such a way that, according to their own word, they have much to the region. I think you could find a flat on it. Why, though, does the Independence Party control everything? I just don't know. Hv. A senator may have experience with this. I wasn't a member of the United States when the United States cooperated with the Independence Party, so I don't have the experience. But somehow it's as if the Independence Party had this effect on the team of cooperate groups, that they just intersect. At any rate, that's how I see it. But I may not look at this with a realistic view. It's just because I'd so like to work with VG in a government that I'm acting like this. [[Up front.]] I guess that's why. That's why it pains me to see my good associates and the physical team of fellow workers turning off so badly and taking up this hard right course.
