ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u1	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There are similar laws in Norway, as I did in the paper and the model for this bill to come from Norway. This case has been won by a lawyer in the council, and I trust there will be a constitution. Of course, it is the role of the Economic and Business Committee to call the relevant party to go into the stitches of this case. We're going to use very mild wood laws, that I think, to the companies that don't follow the law. Of course, everyone, whether an enterprise or a person, should follow the current laws at any time. Of course, it is not easy for a company to comply with the law and thus avoid the laws of the wood. Sadly, this has become different, and of course it is not good. As I stepped in, this has caused a serious setback and shows that this has not been working somehow and that it has to be put on the wood so that a company takes it seriously. I believe, at the end of the day, a company will profit greatly by getting women into a government, and they will take advantage of it. I think it's a great deal of business to get women into control and, by the way, mixed with gender proportions, as shown in the law, at least 40% of either sex. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u2	Mr. President. I don't argue with what. A senator that it can be good for any part of the company to have more women in the board and because all directors are women, that may even be the decision of the stockholder. But let it lie in between things. However, it is obvious that transporters have not wondered that what is meant by the definition of financial strength of the Society is completely unclear. But let it lie in between things. What I want to ask you is why. Senator: What is it that drives transporters to submit this bill when watching 156. g. of the partners and of the 130th pars. a law on private components, which says: ▪ If a person neglects to report to his partner file - and hence a sex ratio for those sitting there - these laws are to be treated with fines or prisons up to one year. ? The transporters feel that this law is found in 156. of the partners and of the 130th pars. the law on private partnerships not enough? In turn, they think that a day's end should be committed in the relevant partner enterprises, up to 100,000 k., 700,000 k. every week? True, some blurred point, called financial strength, is taken into account that no one knows what it means and how to define. You cannot help but insist that when you make such an offer, you can at least say that you can. Give an answer to what is involved in financial strength. What's his definition? [[The president calls.]] Why do they believe that the regulations I have quoted are not strong enough - up to a year in prison?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u3	A respectable president. It seems that it did not have enough and was not motivated, even if this was evident in the legal process. A senator witnesses. It has not been used. Otherwise, I'm afraid there are a lot of people who would be judged by the law, considering that this company has not been carrying out the law. I think it's very natural that we who looked at Norway when we set these laws back then also look to Norway when we see they're not being followed, unfortunately. We take the step further and pick up comparable wood layers and are in Norway, and it seems to have worked very well there. The result is far different from what we see here. When we face a setback, we simply need to respond. Otherwise, we would be overran, we would have legislation that our companies would not accept. I got it. I got it. The head of the Economic and Business Committee to contact relevant parties to review this matter. It was a lawyer who studied this law on our part and studied the laws and the penalty in Norway. The professional status of a woman with a professional committee in the past winter called for some kind of repair so that we could get these things to the place we were supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u4	Mr. President. Various measures have been taken to balance the position of men and women in Icelandic society, but the situation is not equal. Were even. A whole day yesterday, the battle for equally - important men and women was to point out the injustice that involves that men and women will not receive the same reward. The day was also used to draw attention to other aspects of the sex situation. In this context, the #methoo revolution was torn up, pointing out that unfortunately, women are subject to violence in the community. In my mind, the bill presented here is about a change in the law that makes it a law not to comply with the acceptable laws of gender in control, yet another tool that we as a community can use to balance the social status of men and women. Although I am not a member of the bill, I really support it and its goals. I find very interesting, as indicated in the report that there are laws that have not been adhered to, but the law recommends that each enterprise has a minimum 40% share if the enterprise is large enough to include 50 persons, and if the companies are small, where there are only three executives, there are at least 40%. one person of each sex. In recent years, there has been a relapse in which women in corporate management have declined from a fixed peak, though only 33.2%, in 2014. I believe we need as lawmakers and as a community to use many and varied means to balance the position of the sexes in society. I don't think there is one way to save everything or to change everything. Rather, there is a number of ways to take action. I believe this is one of the ways we should look and go. As shown in the report, this way has proved beneficial in Norway. I don't think there's any reason to think that there's any other value on Icelandic society, so I hope that the bill will get a career, an equality in Icelandic society for benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u5	A respectable president. We here discuss a bill to correct a change that involves having the right to bring a fine decision to those who do not already fulfill laws. I'm one of the carriers of this bill and thank you. The first missionary to Lilja Electric Rafney, the daughter of Magnúsdóttir, for her speech and to have invited me to participate in this case. I must admit, though, that it was no simple decision for me whether I as a member of the Independence Party should be involved in such a bill. So I felt that I had every reason to wait until the evening to explain my position on the matter. First of all, if we have laws in the country, we have every reason to have some authority in them as well as some authority to use wood laws if the law is not fulfilled, regardless of what law is actually involved. In this case, we're discussing the laws related to the equation of the sexes of corporate governments. Making use of both senses everywhere, either here in the high General Assembly, in corporate, professional, or anywhere, is important, and is the importance of the diversity in the event of this. Therefore, there should be a self-aggression in companies on the market to consider multiplicity when it comes to operating governments. That's what they do for their own good. I want to see in this context that I was very pleased with the advertisement published yesterday by the National Association of Employment that discussed the day of Women's Day and the wages of the sexes. They made it hard for an enterprise that, first of all, did not pay the same amount of money for jobs as breaking law, but second, they were not being competitive. I think it's the same here. That's my first stand. How is it then done to have some penalties? The proposal on the bill is a day's fine and like a smidge. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir went over seeing the Norwegian method here. I felt, and I feel like the first talk, it's totally going right up, but if there are any bad reasons, just follow through. In contrast, FKA has pointed out the need to respond in some way. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason made it possible that the head of the tax system or the annual bill would already have certain legal rights if firms pass in order not to form annual bills. When a law was passed and a law required for companies to submit annual accounts to annual accounts, there was no particular benefit at first. It has brought in a parking ticket, which has led to the fact that companies are now giving their annual bills at the proper time, which is important. I feel that it can be completely recovered and assume that by such fines, this will change to some extent. Women's financial resources have also shown that there should be a slow play for a year's credit sheet to monitor this. It doesn't seem to be done. I will, of course, take it up when we go over this to the point. The Economic and Business Committee, we are expected to be represented by the head of the tax and annual bill, how such monitoring is conducted, of course, that it would probably be overdone there. According to the indications we have received that this bill does not seem to be the case. But that's what I'd like to do. I'd like to go over what might be the foundation of this bill, sexuality. I just don't like being here discussing equality. I don't like it because we've been doing it for decades, and you always want to get to the finish line. Looks like we're not there yet. I admit that I would have probably been in 2010, if I had been at the council then, agreeing with my fellow party members of the Independence Party who did not vote with this bill at the time. They used that reasoning, similar to what happened. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason went over earlier, that it was about corporate freedom, that we were even going some way to establish their ownership rights by establishing laws on how companies on the market should put their governments on. I'm a very favour to those views, I'd be happy to admit it. However, there are other viewpoints: the importance of using everyone's energy, the importance of women as well as men and women of corporate governments, executive jobs and management jobs in the companies, to be equal to men with a particular professional authority. I think it's really important. I'm sorry, and I just reiterate it, to the belief that we need to have sexuality. The situation is that these laws were adopted in 2010, although not valid until 2013, and I don't know that someone has moved this bill to cancel them. At least that discussion has not gone too high. I imagine that a lot of people have gone down to the point where they might need some kind of action, just as miserable as it is. I'd also like to discuss that even though we're not at any finish here, we in Iceland live with very good things in equality, compared with very many other places around the world. We've been exemplary in so many things, and I'm going to start by mentioning the birthworm that I think is the largest step in equality that we've taken here at the council, which was now very controversial in our time. We are well - acquainted with the fact that when it comes to dealing with equality, we have a considerable need to extend internationally. They are even one of our cornerstones in our foreign policy. We have a special ambassador of equal rights and we already have our highest. Secretary of state goes abroad and talks at conferences always talk about equality. When foreign senators come here and visit us, they often ask us, " How have you achieved this success? ' Iceland is simply known for its very high level of equality. Norwegians were ahead of us putting laws that were common to the equations of the governments on the market. At the same time, they passed penalties, and they seem to have been more successful than we have. I say, why shouldn't we try the same thing and see if we can do it in the same way as many others, when it comes to equal equality? It is about a position of authority in the community and the importance of women being selected in such positions as men. As much as I support individual freedom, I also support equal opportunities. It is simply a fact, as tragic as it is, that professional women do not have the same opportunity as men. Sadly, this intricate glass roof is a fact. That's why too few women are in corporate management and far too few women are members of the Commission or executives of the largest companies on the market. I think we all want to change this. I think we all agree on the importance of using both senses. What we may disagree about is the way we use it. But then I say at the same time, now I'm just very anxious, we've been waiting a long time, and we can't wait forever. That's why I support this bill. I'm fully prepared to discuss the various arrangements if necessary, and I'm also going to end this on yesterday's slogan: don't change women, change society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u6	V.E.G. President. We're going to discuss a bill on changing the law on partnerships, private societies laws, partnership laws and social laws, i.e. penalties due to a ratio of gender in control. This case is interesting. It's about that we're trying to live by the laws set here on the equal share of men and women in corporate governments. We set the law in 2010, and it had laws on private stocks. There was a validated set of gender proportions in the partner control board. They came into value on September 1, 2013, so a period of adaptation was given. I can agree with what has been said in this room that we are in a constant struggle for that matter. We are looked upon as a nation on equality, we are considered to have advanced in them, and that is very positive. We have a dominant law of equality in our country, and we feel the requirement for equal wages. In itself, the law code on that matter is quite good for us and a measure of confidence, but it is not enough to set laws, but we must follow it. It's too common for us to have a law, and we're happy with it, but it's not enough. When we look at equality, I agree that an important step was taken in the year 2000 when the right of fathers and mothers was equal to the right of children, which is so important. We have lived in a baby's ordinary, which is extremely important. There are many things that we have done well, but that has not been enough. For a long time, I thought we shouldn't need sexuality. This should just happen because we all talk like that. Still, there are obstacles, some stops, something that prevents us from getting better. So I feel completely that way and can refer to what has happened in my class. That is where we have worked according to the rules, and we have specific rules regarding the list of oers, how we offer them. It has a 40/60% rule, i.e. The ratio between the sexes must be varied. It moves us to put forth more effort to get women and to encourage them, to get them with us. It is extremely important to do so, for if we are to mirror the community, we need to have an equal sex ratio in all areas, all over the place we are working. The bill refers to how things have been done in Norway, which seems to have worked well. I get to grab a little bit of this report, with President's permission: In Norway, sexually transmitted legislation was adopted in the governments of a larger section of the EU in 2003. It stated that the contribution of each member of the administration is to a minimum of 40%. Following the introduction of the Norwegian Law, the percentage of women in the administrations of a partner increased from 6% in 2002 to 40% in 2011. The proportion of women in large companies in Norway increased from one fourth of the executives in 2004 to 36% in 2006, reaching 42% in 2009. This shows that the way works and we need to go that way. Its success, according to Sissel Jensen, a Norwegian economist, is an increase in the share of women who receive the highest salary in such companies. The result is positive. Instead, women are given the opportunity to be among the highest rulers when the government itself is made up of both men and women. It agrees with the purpose of the law, i.e. that more women are being given the opportunity to influence business affairs. We must want in all of the laws of society to have the kind of person equal to all decision-making, all work. We share the responsibility. I can't imagine my daughters fighting for it into the future. It's not supposed to be like that. We are to respect the previous people, struggle for equality, get us to the place we are in today's world. We need to keep their signs up and strengthen them. There's nowhere to go. Despite the fact that we've done some good by the Norwegian example and, as I previously referred to, have had some good results - we have been seen elsewhere, and our deputies are asked to come out and discuss the equality issues and how they are being handled here - yet we haven't reached where we were going. We have failed to succeed as Norwegians did, and we are not to accept it. We're supposed to go further and be more demanding. But the time comes when the bill is recommended for repairs. It may lead to by itself, we are making laws, and then there must be some law against not following them. Now I lack the skills to figure out how to put it to work, but I expect this will be done at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee and men are looking at what's suitable. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason said that the financial strength of companies or associates is unclear. I suppose this case will be discussed well in the Committee, and there will be a conclusion. I hope that the case will continue because we have experienced a setback in the equal struggle. Although we talk about probably living in equality, and there should be no pay differences between the sexes, it is, unfortunately, true. We need to use many, varied means of communication, and this may be one of them. I am very excited to see how the matter angers. In spite of all of this, there are too few women in the board and too few women are managers, that has been demonstrated. It can't be like that. Women must have the same abilities as men to this point. Somehow we need to push them forward. I wish the Commission a success in the progress of the situation, and I look forward to observing its progress. I also thank the carriers for providing the bill. We always need to stay on the watch and hold on to the issue. We can't keep them to death. This is certainly a part of their continuing and working on them, and it is a cause for rejoicing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u7	Mr. President. It's starting to pass by the night, and I'm not going to extend this discussion very much. But I am gracious and related, as I was able to answer him. a first transporter, to account only for my attitude. I'm gonna start with that, with the permission of the highest. The president, quoting an interview published in the 2015 Business Journal to Katrín Pétursdóttir, all of whom are to be known and often referred to as Lysia. There she put the words: ▪ The Ents should have the right to rule regardless of gender. I actually feel like sexuality is shrinking for women. Why are they not simply appreciated? The sex ratios also depend on the nature of the sector, etc. Later, Katrín St. Pétursdóttir's daughter said that, of course, a shareholder should choose a government and shareholders who care for the company's interests choose the most qualified people each time. My group sister, what. paritaprevir Haraldsdóttir Haraldsdotir, agreed that it was some sort of glass roof when it came to involved women in the management of companies. That may be so. I'm not talking about stopping women from getting a career in Icelandic business unless they don't. I think all companies have the goal of choosing talented individuals to manage the company, to run the company, to the Commission, to companies, etc., of whatever gender. I think those times we men have just passed, the calling time has passed. However, it is clear to me that with sexuality laws, glass roofs have been placed, such as shareholders in Iceland's Life Insurance Association were allowed to meet in 2016. At that time, the brothers who wanted to make arrangements in a way that allowed women to be more than 60% were taken away from the shareholders of Israel. It was illegal under those laws. By doing so, the law had begun to counteract the proposed goal, to increase the share and impact of women in Icelandic commercial living. The main meeting had to be postponed. In other words, there were too few men running for government, four women, and one man, and they were not allowed to do so. I refuse such laws. I argue that this is exactly what they are working against. Transporters are trying to achieve, ensuring that women have a natural success here in Icelandic commerce. I just have more faith in Icelandic business, but making wise decisions, and making wise decisions on these matters, of course, involves choosing the most talented people. It just so happens that there are frequent women. But sometimes it's men. It's just gonna have to be. According to local law, women, e.g. not allowed to get together and start a company with a fixed size and put only women to work. Why is that? The same is true of men. To me, these laws - are to be followed by a company's daily fines - against property rights that are in the stocks of the individual and the provision rights that are inevitable to their stocks. In other words, the provision rights of individuals and the decision rights of those who share in certain communities have been limited. It is in my mind against the rights of possession of the Constitution. We can debate it, but it might be worth one Mass to have it tested at some point. Finally, I'm going to say again what I was asking a 1st transporter man, okay? paritaprevir This is where the Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir says: Here is some vague set of financial grants that are not defined in any way in the bill, and do not attempt to help in the report, if this should be legal; there is no legal explanation. What is meant by financial strength? How is he appreciated? That food must vary from job to professional. In one industry a substantial amount of financial strength is needed, including in a business venture, such as a airline business, I don't talk about in a fishing road. But another standard may be needed when it comes to shops. It takes a different standard when it comes to insurance, etc. and knocks. This is not a sign that I would have thought normal for tourists to have won the bill. And I'm also not getting any answers to why the movers believe to be 156. gr. partner-shaped and 130th par. Private partner-shaped is not good enough. It is quite clear that the companies that fall under the physioovian code have no choice. If this gender ratio is not included in this article, it is permitted to use the person who neglects such announcements, as well as other reported by the law to be sent to the partner files and associated with the partner, fines, or prisons for up to one year. In addition to this, he aims for a day's fine, which, in some way, will take into account something called the financial strength of the company. I don't understand how transporters are going to define that strength, and there's no attempt to do that, either in the bill itself or in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I think it's important that we discuss this important matter and listen to all its viewpoints. I have to admit, though, that I think that's why. A senator in his talk was primarily describing his opposition to the laws that are in force today regarding sexuality in commercial management. It is true that the law was set at its time to increase the proportion of women in corporate management because the legislatator thought it was important, but at the same time there were conflicting views. Then let's see that today's situation is that corporate governments have 74% men and 26% women. It can be considered a very late figure. You're right. A senator came in, that the law, such as other equality laws, is not only useful to women. They benefit primarily from the community in securing a degree of diversity and both sexes. If we take the equality Act, they recommend that if both sides are equally suitable, an employee should be hired by the smaller number of members of the profession. Then I come into this with the idea that the most talented people are chosen. When it comes to choosing people in business, people who know man and women in government and management positions are often more familiar with women and men. I guess that explains why men are in such much of a position when it comes to corporate governments. The beautiful thing about such laws is that they are not directly against one sex or with the other but primarily to equal the sexes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u9	Mr. President. I didn't realize that there was a question that was directed to me, but it's okay. In general, I would like to honor that a private company can make decisions that they consider to serve their interests best. I'm absolutely convinced that if people do, we don't have to worry about it. A senator calls polymorphism but can translate anything else from someone else. Diversity is not just a matter of having both men and women in the background, of age, etc. Polymorphisms are not just equivalents. If there's diversity, let's discuss dating and making plans for it, that there's a certain proportion of older citizens, a certain percentage of people under 30, and so on down the streets, I know that we'll be in trouble first, but let's let it go. But what I want to know, and I don't get the answer for it: why do you think it's 156th? partner-shaped and 130th par. A private partner isn't good enough? Why is it not enough to achieve the goal that those who neglect their duties or judge for up to one year in prison can be fined? You want to make better moves, and you want to do more daylight, too? I'm not gonna talk about their definition.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u10	A respectable president. That's probably because it's time that I forgot about the question, but my question to the point. The senator would agree that if people did not respect the law, they should have some kind of law. Hv. A senator refers to the law that allows fines or even custody if companies fail to be notified of their membership records. I only entered in my speech that companies are fined, e.g. for not returning the annual bills and other documents they should return. But as far as I know, and I think we are. Senators are just going through it for a second. The Economic and Business Committee, seems to be a partner list, and then a annual bill, do not review that information and put it into place in the enterprises that they are actually breaking the law. It's like there's some sort of nasty little thing out there. Likely, they feel that these terms fall to the idea that if the paper is not returned, it is possible to use penalties, but what is stated in annual accounts when governments and the relative sex seem to have failed to achieve their eyes and ears. If so, this bill might be unnecessary. I think we're gonna do what. A senator will not agree on whether or not there is a need for fertilization. I reiterate what I said before that I wish I could agree with it. A senator and we don't need sexuality, but I'm starting to feel the need for sex today. My question is, if we have a law in force that is on exactly this point, then why. A senator's naturalness is that there are any laws to make the party go along with them, some kind of judicial order as ordered here, guilty?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u11	Mr. President. The answer is simple: Yes. This is already and is already there, and does not merely cover a year's account, if that is the case. A senator thinks so, but above all legal notifications to be sent to a company file, including Reports of who is sitting on the board, etc. I can't explain why. Congress officials believe that more than one year's imprisonment is required. That's not good enough for you. Transporters. Mr. President. Is it wonder, this way when it starts to hit that we're going to breakfast, that I'm surprised?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u12	The president allows himself to feel that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u13	Mr. President. I want to thank you for the discussion that has taken place on this subject. It's obvious that while you're in good shape here at all, people don't exactly have the same place if you have to put the bill above your head and use the woodwork. I'd rather be humane and gentle and do penalties than prison. I think we'll agree on that, me and him. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee. This bill is a adjustment to these fines. That's what happened earlier. The head of the Economic and Business Committee that better analysis and explain what it meant to take into account the financial strength of a community. That's not very high, 10,000 bucks. ... toa hundred00,000K. It also states that a minister is permitted to set more limits on day - to - day stress in a Regulation. I thus consider the minister to set up a Regulation that shows how financial strength is appreciated by the law, of course the Regulation is based on this legal matter, and according to these laws, the distribution of the Minister, how it establishes a law on what is considered to be the financial strength of that society. I think there must be a way to find models in the law columns. But I trust the committee will go over this and call on the relevant party. The head of the Economic and Business Committee referred to a woman who is the executive of a company and doesn't like sexuality. It was asked, " Why are women not appreciated? ' That is just what women have been asking themselves through the centuries to this day: Why are women not appreciated? During the decades as much right as the centuries have even been dried up, and women have had to suffer for it. Yet, there has been no default, and there are ways to achieve what we have achieved today and, fortunately, with the support of the equality of men as well. Of course, in the perfect world, it would be a good thing not to make laws like this and not to put laws on sexuality. But the world isn't more perfect than the fact that we have to give the stopped, slow - down society kick in the ass and push the things, push them forward. This has a bearing on how important it is that we have models all over the community, everywhere, and that our young ones, boys and girls, see them. I saw a lot of young kids on the Eaglehol yesterday on the women's holiday with their fight cards and had a little chat with some of them. They were very aware that girls should have the right of boys to enjoy themselves wherever they might be. We need examples of business and employment too. I think it's a step towards us going out there and filling up the laws we've given ourselves and not letting it last for the General to pass a law that's not done. I trust that this case will receive good and objective treatment, and it will be settled as soon as possible from the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u14	The President wants to propose a brief recess, but this remains after a verbal report and discussion of the Environment and Resource Minister. There'll be something later than Thursday.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u15	The president considers an agreement that may last longer today, but the Council states that if necessary, or until a discussion on the program is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u16	To answer, Prime Minister, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister, Environment and Resource Minister and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u17	V.E.G. President. I wanted to ask the highest. The prime minister of the remuneration of the sex due to an entry to the highest level. Yesterday, though I assume that the prime minister saw to it that this question was raised, the Minister of Justice put it on Facebook. As we move to the top of the record. The Minister of Justice says, with the permission of the president: It is an important prerequisite for progress in the matter of perfunctory discussion, and the available data are not disintegrated. You have wondered, " Is it true that those who attended this great celebration yesterday and those who were writing on the girls'backside have misinformed data? ' Now I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is the prime minister willing to agree with this conclusion, that there has been a misinformation? Second, it's the highest. ▪ When considering various factors, does the prime minister agree that the difference in pay between genders is 5%?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising an issue on this important matter. In fact, it is amazing that after our first vacation of women held in 1975 a year before my birth, we are still in a position where the total pay of the sexes has not been equaled. It's really amazing that it took 43 years and that we're not at the finish point yet. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson here gives different methods to measure the pay of the sexes. I do not agree that different methods necessarily involve misunderstandings. We do know, however, that different standards are used in a discussion of sexual pay. The concept of uncorrected pay difference to the genders was in terms of 16% in 2016. Then we have what we call a ◯Indistinguishable amount of pay, which is then a correction of the pay difference between the sexes, which was 5% in 2016. The unadjusted difference, or the difference when no correction is made, is based on the pay of the time for all paid hours, but the difference remains when corrected for jobs, education, age, age, working age, human resources - saying different jobs. Of course, no one should be the difference. We are to evaluate men and women alike. It can be both about correcting the amount of remuneration that we call correcting but unexplained amounts of pay, which basically means different pay for the same job. Then this also calls for discussing why men receive e.g. ... a number of benefits in their jobs, but women according to studies and why we are here to make up more men than women who are directors of the Icelandic enterprise, which is part of the uncorrected amount of pay. But I don't think that we should lose ourselves in a discussion as important as the gender's inequities, in discussing the differences between unique methods and our understanding of them. [[The president calls.]] True, they do exist, but that does not change the fact that the wrong is present.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u19	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for an excellent speech. I wondered if a minister's answer was that both are correct, that the amount of pay is both 5% and 26%, as the woman's course is said to be. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is the answer that the amount of pay is 5% and 26%, depending on the criteria or which is calculated? It is very important that the message being sent, especially from the government, is at least similar, that we are comparing apples and apples rather than oranges and pickles or something like that. So I think it's important to do the highest. Whether the pay difference spoken of by the government, or the government, is fighting as one of the women's origins, the prime minister makes clear. The Minister of Justice writes about on his Facebook page. I do not intend to claim that a minister of justice is wrong or that a prime minister does not know the course, but it would be good to know the course or interpretation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for once again. As I learned in my language, there are different methods of measuring the pay of the sexes. I explained right there, that I think, in a previous answer and I don't have to go further into it. Government policy is clear. The pay of the sex is to be equal. Whether or not we are talking about a correct or uncorrected amount of money. That's the basic thought of a course that I know is why. A senator completely agrees with me and has been a good spokesman for, that Iceland should be in the highest order when it comes to gender equality. On the other hand, at the highest. Ministers or anything. Councilmen, whether of mine or of others, would like to discuss different methods of statistics, whether on their Facebook pages or elsewhere, I am also a great spokesman for the opportunity for politicians to discuss matters. I don't need to put the lid on those pots. The big issue in these matters is that we in this hall are to be proud of the success that has been achieved in correcting the discrimination of the sex but, at the same time, recognize that we are nowhere near our destination. At times, I feel as if my finish line is always moving away. [[The president calls.]] It's like a race where the judge always moves the finish line away, no matter how long you run.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u21	A respectable president. The concept of working ability has been heard in the area for years. In the beginning, the concept of a job performance does not seem to be bad ideals, at all. However, it is becoming increasingly evident how it affects those who are to be judged in such a way, the poor themselves. On October 10th. Sends aside the Micro-State Association after a board meeting that strongly objected to the effectiveness of the work. I'd like to discuss it a little at the highest. Minister of well-being. Let us see how this transformation has worked out in the countries around us. For example, consider Britain, where during the first two years of World War II, a third thousand people committed suicide. What does it mean to take out the system that we now know, though we believe has returned in many ways even though it can certainly improve? It is no wonder what the Organization asks of us, that we improve the microenergy system we live in today, making it more efficient, more reasonable, and secondary impairments to micro-organization in our system. It's like the highest. A minister in these matters has stepped this system down our throats, as it were, in the form of microgamy. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson so correctly said in the pool last week, simply without our saying anything about it. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why is it so important to pass this workforce on now and in that format and under the merits of it? It's, for example. no job in getting to be poor people who want part - time jobs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Me and what. A senator has already discussed this matter here in the City of Generalis. I think it's just a good thing. Hv. There are certain points that a senator makes up there. What I've said about this remains. We're in good cooperation and cooperation with a stakeholder, Iceland's Institute of Environment and Development, and with the labour market partners trying to make changes aimed at encouraging people to be more active in this good society of ours. In that work, we've looked to the countries where these things have worked well, including partly in Denmark, Sweden. There are things that have been going well. There is a key to this that we want, in the long run, people to be more active in the community by using their skills and by supporting the system. There's no one doing anything about it. However, it is trying to get us to take the step of starting to work in this direction. No one has mentioned that this should take effect on January 1 or so. How important it is that we go into this work wholeheartedly and work at doing this, not at any speed, but at the speed needed to prepare our job life, the workforce, and the community in order to receive people who have impaired working ability, whether for a short time or for a long time! All operations are aimed at this. I think it's a very positive thing. I think it's a good thing if we succeed in making changes in this situation. I have strong hopes that it can succeed, that we will have a conversation with all the major parties on these matters and will continue to do so. [[The president calls.]] I hope that when the conclusion comes, there will be trouble. I agree that this will be a positive step.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. He talks about peace and harmony. It's not cool for this job estimate. In the group appointed last year, in June, I am reminded of no one who is an invalid. I'd like to reiterate that the motto is, "Nothing about us without us." I'm an invalid, and I say nothing about us without us. It's not cool. It's completely blind to the ocean. And already the highest. Pointing to Denmark, a minister says that it went well, I ask him to look at it a little more carefully because the information and the data I have read do not indicate that they do. There are a fifth hundred microlooms who wish to get part - time jobs and there are no resources for these individuals, there are no jobs, and no one seems to want to hire them. Then there's a little bit off about snatching them out of the system they know now and providing them with the only security they have, throwing them into the unknown. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u24	A respectable president. I'd just like to reiterate to the main stakeholders in this area, the Bank of Environment and Development, having a part in the work being done. Hv. A member of the Parliament specifically stated that there was a great need for more work to be done for those with limited skills, that many with limited skills were waiting to get into the job market. It is part of the work to be done in these changes, i.e. preparing for a job life that is capable of accepting people with impaired skills can receive this wide variety of fleas. That's even. The job. I can't tell you enough that it is extremely important to prepare our professional life and the whole community for a change of thought because it truly is needed. The question is very clear. A senator when he speaks of a lack of employment. It is the very thought that needs to be introduced. It's part of the work that's going on, must be, because we need a change in community thinking. [[The president calls.]] We want everyone to be able to participate in society, we want everyone to be able to participate in the workforce. [[The president calls.]] It is such an Icelandic society that we need to build up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u25	A respectable president. My business is intended as the prime minister of Justice for the release of judgments and photo shoots in courthouses. I don't know where to start, it's such a terrible bill. It suggests that judicial decisions about specific matters must be published. Among them are sexual violations, and with the approval of the bill, all public manifestations of sex - breaking judgments would be revealed. Also, the bill says that in criminal sentences and sentences, the names of those diagnosed are kept secret; that the name of all the offenders in Iceland, according to the bill, should be kept secret. How this bill got out of the Ministry of Justice, with all the lawyers there, I'm so sorry to understand. An article with the bill provides evidence that this might be considered a good idea, but let us remember that stopping all the title in the publication of a court of law is a major change from a local project, and we ask ourselves why such a change is necessary. For one thing, it may be necessary to protect a person's own fragrant or delicate person information about those mentioned in the court, and it is true that courts have often used sensitive personal information. But giving up all the renovations and giving up public judgments is not the answer. As we know, the rule is that a judicial hearing of one of the cornerstones of the rule of justice legalized in a constitution, the European Convention of Human Rights, and the international agreements for civil and political rights. This adjustment is in harmony with the regulations of all these covenants. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: In what way should this journey be involved? As far as I can see, the plan is to strike a armory on this country's rapists and ransacks at its constitution and the principles of the state of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this great interest in a case that is not yet finished at the Ministry of Justice but has been put in touch with the problem, just to consult a language that has not yet been completed. Of course, it may be new here for members and others to present a case and to seek consultation during the process. Now, that is the very purpose of the consultation puzzle, which was opened earlier this year, that cases would come in much earlier, in earlier stages, so that consultation could be made. That may be the problem. A senator misreads the bill. This bill is not making as important a change as I could hear it. A senator tore up here. It is this way today that certain cases in a number of languages are not published by the local courts. This is a suggestion to be added to some sensitive groups. It is also being suggested that judgment be rendered to a greater extent than it is now being done. That is certainly an important change. It is explained that in some respects the courts have failed to comply with the regulations they themselves have set up and the regulations in a law entitled to anonymousness in certain matters, to be guilty of gains - not especially for offenders but for offenders. This has been called to the courts. The recent judicial committee has considered these matters and the proposed bill in most of the ways. However, some changes were made before the matter entered the consultation mystery. For the most part, it had extensive consultation with the Court's ideas. Iceland's press club, lawyers and judges. I completely understand that there may be differences in the viewpoint of these matters, and I'm going to get them out as far as possible before this case can be presented in the final form of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u27	A respectable president. I don't get this bill wrong. It is very clear that no names are mentioned in any criminal court, just to stop publishing the names of every criminal in Iceland. The answer is very clear in paragraph 1. This bill that in criminal sentences and judgments, there is an anonymous list of those who are diagnosed there. In logic with the bill, it is also stated that since there is sometimes an identity of violations, all of these materials, including those, should be kept in place. The argument for this bill. I realize it's in my speech now, but I don't understand how a bill like this gets out of the Ministry of Justice with all the lawyers working there. I can't get it. Is the bill going to stop publishing all the offenders in Iceland? Is that true? I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice for that, because it's in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u28	A respectable president. The very fact is clear that the bill on the publication of judgments on the Internet suggests that humans will be named, including ... inconsistencieswiththeconvicts. Today's court order is that there are wrongdoers, e.g. Those who commit crimes against children on shameful crimes, sexual crimes against children, are not mentioned in judgment on these matters. On the other hand, the courts of the defendants who are judged for much less crimes reveal their names on the Internet. There they are judged forever and ever. Long after the accused have served and executed their punishment, in line with the judgments they have received, the judges are still on the Internet. I think it might be thought of, and I think the Council should treat the matter according to the Congress, seriously wondering if it is the role of the State to follow in this way to the infinite, life of convicted men, long after they have served and received their punishment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u29	Mr. President. In the week, finance minister completely excluded the labor movement's demand to reduce the tax burden of all the lowest remunerations. He spoke of a stunning, unrealistic declaration. So negotiations are in a hurry before they begin, and no government has been able to do it until now. Of course it doesn't work that a score of increase goes up the entire pay ladder, no one to talk about it, but I wonder why it's not an option to simply change the tax burden in Iceland. By doing so, they would not turn aside, as some fear. Will prime minister, e.g. Is it true that you're using yourself for a high-priced tax like his fellow minister mentioned yesterday? In recent years the tax burden of the rich has fallen at the same time as the tax burden of the poor and the middle class has increased. V.E.G. Prime Minister, why do we not turn back? Why should people between the intervening and the poor be responsible for their stability? What about the directors, who have a 1◯2 million a week and increased one piece of midwives' salary between months? What about the developer who went out with 22,000 million in his pocket the other day? What about the richest 10% of the people who took in less than half of all the clean possessions that came into existence in 2016? Why don't we raise the tax burden on them instead of on middle income and underpayers? Why does the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter prefer a financial bill that assumes 2 billion dollars? less on capital taxes than the plan expected? Why is turning the bank tax down at 7 billion dollars the priority of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter? ... witha cutoffof3 billion from year to year? At the same time, however, the desire to lower the tax burden on poor people is dramatic. [[The president calls.]] I guess that's the death sin of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising a matter of vital importance, but his questions were quite numerous. I will do my best to answer them. But I must refuse to do so first. A senator tells us that a heart-to-heart conversation is a mess before it starts. Of course, this is not true. The current government has likely had more and more regular consultations with the workforce than we have seen for decades in Icelandic society. That should be why. A senator to know with all his political experience. A regular meeting has been held here, and I stress that this discussion needs to be formalized, and it is important that all members of the organisation come into play. I have informed the newly elected presidents of a total organization, and of course wait for the finals of the ASI Council, that such consultations will continue after the ASI Council because it is important for them to have a good conversation. It's not a business conversation between state and ASI, it's the professionals, and the ASI, and the individual societies within the ASI, that they should be treated properly, where they will sit at the table. That's what I've said in it all. We listen, however, to the emphasis of the labor movement and the government will be able to do what they can to pay for a bargain. Governments are already doing so. Hv. A senator refers to a capital income tax. We agreed to raise it by 2 percentage points, 10% increase in fiscal taxes, last Christmas. The introduction of capital tax goes down - and this knows why. A senator fine though he does not know in a pontta - is because of changes in the tax stem. What do we suggest about these budgets? Yes, we suggest a raise of child support so that it does not interfere with minimum wage. I'm still waiting for that. A senator expresses his joy, knowing that we agree on that matter. We're increasing the character discount over the consumer science number, which is most useful to the most efficient groups. The changes that lie ahead will be due to increasing the equation in the tax system, and there's something I think we're going to have to deal with. A senator agrees, and they represent the labor movement that has expressed itself on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u31	Mr. President. With all due respect, 500 bucks. increase in character discount no civil revolution. The same can be said for a 2% increase in fiscal tax. At the same time as here, there's a slight addition of child care, there's an increase in the impairment in middle-temperatures. In a second request, I would like to direct the secretary of the inquiry regarding the anticipated and actually begin the fall of the crown that will eat all possible human choice of choice. There's always a gang crash at the expense of the public. With a gang drop, the people's money is dwindling, and they actually turn to major and foreign tourists. You see, 10% of a gang drop means 4◯5% inflation. This calls for higher interest. This isn't space science, Mr. President. Now it is clear to everyone that the dollar itself is the source of instability. Like living in a harmonikku at a country dance, so the Society described what it was like to be in business in Iceland and live at the crown. So I ask: How will the prime minister improve the public's election because of the fall of the crown? Or is it normal for a prime minister to think that another time, the fall of the crown will come to the common people?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u32	Mr. President. I hadn't answered all the questions as well as the questions. A senator came to his first question, so I think it's gonna be longer. I want to reiterate, except for what I said before, to what I said. A senator should also welcome the proposed change around the budget, which is that of the higher levels and lower levels of the tax system are now being measured by the same standard. This is part of what has led to a failure in the tax system in recent years. A senator should be just as happy that we are making that change. Hv. A senator goes over to the crown gang. I missed what. A senator with a discussion about money policy a week ago when we discussed the need to strengthen the framework of money policy, for the management interest is not to be the only control of Iceland's money policy. We discussed the other avenues proposed in the report of the review of money policy committees, including how to apply the financial resources that we have put into law in recent years, how to apply the currency capitals of the Federal Bank, with the goal of having a constant currency. [[The president calls.]] Unfortunately, all currency has to be in place, and the equipment needs to be there, but unfortunately, there are no magic solutions in Iceland's currency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u33	Mr. President. Yesterday we were delighted that 43 years have passed since the turning point in Iceland's equal struggle, the first day of women's leave, and we were also reminded of the importance of continuing this fight. Here we continue with a significant gender - based pay, here we are sexually active, a major lesion in Icelandic society, and a number of factors we need to consider in terms of equality. So it was a little bit surprising when I was at the top. The Minister of Justice declared that all of this was basically a misunderstanding based on this sexual pay, much less than that, women probably had gone all too early yesterday. It's a little bit interesting in this context to watch that, of course, this is right, here's two figures, 16% uncorrected rates and about 5% so-called correct pay difference. Is it evidence of success in equality? No, when it comes to the uncorrected amount of pay, we are below the center of the pay department of the sex, well below the centre of a ward. We have a sex - trade labour market that goes and happens elsewhere, we have far fewer women in management positions than we do and they do in other places, we have a lot more pay between traditional male and traditional classes than does going and going elsewhere. None of these are evidence of success in equality. And that's why I wonder, because I know that the highest. The prime minister is good, and against a spokesman for greater equality, great feminists, whether this reflects the government's ambitions in equality. Of course, there is a difference between whether we are trying to close a 5% hole or a 16% hole. That's a basic difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. In fact, his words well illustrate the complexity of the genders in Iceland. This discrimination cannot be mapped to one percent, whether we are talking about a correct or uncorrected remuneration. That was why e.g. Yesterday's fight against sexual violence and sexual abuse is devoted, for it is also part of the big picture we discuss when talking about sexual discrimination. This is also reflected in a labour market, where women often have to put up with all treatments other than men. I see why. So a senator asks whether a stable position in the pay of the sex is a reflection of the ambition of the government. No, this figure doesn't reflect the government's ambition. I propose, and I hope the Council agrees with me, that there is an equality issue going over to the Ministry of Presidency, not because there has been a lack of equality in the Ministry of Justice. A senator once led, but because I believe we need to watch this case on a much broader foundation. Just as when we discuss huge issues, security issues, climates, equality issues are just as big as that of half the human race. It's important that all the departments come together. Why was it so that when there were new laws about acting, elementary and high school, it was found that the law on elementary school had set out an equal education from 1976, my birth date to return to it? I did not receive equal education all my schooling; neither did I enter an equal education until 2011. It is quite a number of decades from the time the lawgiver set his goals until they were established. You see, for some reason, this discrimination may seem to be the most deeply entrenched, as John Stuart Stuart said in his day, perhaps because we are all in some way involved. [[The president calls.]] We're all part of the sex system. Therefore, we need to work on this, always, no matter what language we talk about. [[The president calls.]] The percentages of gender pay, most of which are discussed, are just one small amount of the sex rights we all live in. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u35	President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. Of course, it is a joy to know that they are being transferred to the Ministry of Presidency. I think that's exactly what gives them much weight and emphasizes the importance of taking it into all areas of society, in all areas of the administration. But when you look at the words and then the actions of the government, and even the. the highest word. The Minister of Justice on the fact that the amount of remuneration is not real, it is about to delay the execution of such a pay period of 12 months. [[That's not true.]] The pay of the sexes is minimized, a representative of the Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities of this government. It is beginning to appear that significant changes in the subject of the release of judgments and the renovation of the accused are being made. Words must be fulfilled. We must call for the actions and actions of the government. It was a special disappointment to me when a majority of the Generals actually decided to water out and destroy an action plan for great positions, a national campaign for improved women's status. [[The president calls.]] That was ruined at the council this spring. Therefore, I call for the actions of the government on equality, not just words. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u36	Mr. President. We agree that action may be more important than word. That's why the Istanbul Convention has been validated, which we decided to become in 2011, but for some reason it was not possible to validate until this very year, in the time of that government. Hence, we are putting down a comprehensive program of action on how we will deal with sexual immorality and sexual violence. That is why we have funded a program of sexual abuse in the justice system, but for some reason it did not succeed until the time of that government. That's why we've already contacted all our institutions and asked for a response to how they deal with exactly what appeared in the # I like the revolution; sexual harassment, sexual harassment, sexual violence. Therefore, we are participating in the workforce's activities on how we deal with this. It's action, but I'm glad to hear you say it. A senator who also expresses his sincere desire to share in this work with us. As I said earlier, I'm afraid we're far too short.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u37	Mr. President. I asked for the word very quickly because of the words that were spoken. Prime Minister who fell in answer to me on a question about the matter of mensies and gangs. V.E.G. One prime minister said that she had missed me during her last week's discussion about money matters. [[We missed you.]] - You missed me, I understand. But I'd like to inform both Congress and Prime Minister that I was absent last week because I participated in an international meeting of the International Parliament. That's why I wasn't in that discussion. I'd also like to draw up that in this discussion, a number of members of the United States were very much involved, for the Conspiracy realizes that there is not much more important in this room than how we manage our money. I'm not going to get into a material discussion here, but it's important to discuss how the money business is developing in this country, it has a direct bearing on how expensive it is to live here. Therefore, when it comes to money matters, I do not hold back from all forms of conversation. But I just wanted this to happen, so there was no misunderstanding why I wasn't here last week.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u38	Mr. President. I want to pray. A senator's apologies if he thinks I've been doing something since he wasn't here for the discussion. I really missed him because I know he's interested in these matters, and I enjoy talking to him. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I can see why. A senator was away on duty. I'm sorry if I've implied something else. I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u39	Then hopefully this case will be completely enlightened and resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u40	Mr. President. A new report by the United Nations International Commission on Climate Change is a horror reading. The short version is that our only chance to limit global warming to an average global increase of 1.5 °C is to stop using fossil fuels as fast as possible and to alter Icelandic industry to end carbon dioxide emissions. This result may be delayed temporarily by significant intake, but only major changes on the basis of the economy will prevent conditions in which at best millions die, thousands of species are wiped out, and life on earth will be severely damaged. Let us let the worst case exist for some time, but science is clear that this is a matter of life and death for all mankind. In that statement, there is no unnecessary drama, this is the reality of reality. When these findings are examined in the context of the government climate program, it becomes clear that the plan will not save anything. It wasn't good enough before this report came out, now it's a joke. President. I'm going to use the next few minutes to talk technically about this case because it is essential that the entire body of Congress learn well about this report and understand in detail what we must do to prevent everything from going into a very bad situation, since the earth may not be inhabited by mankind. The actions programme does not have clear targets for the degree of CO-2 emissions to be followed by each procedure. Most of these actions are just a matter of unsolvable transfer of money or a plan, as if that alone would save something. Iceland's release today is 4.3 million tons of carbon dioxide every year. In order to achieve the objectives of the 2030 Paris Convention, CO-2 release must be in place at about 3 million tons a year. We have 12 years to reduce this emissions or linearly by 83,000 tons annually. That's not enough. To remain within 1.5° of the target, according to the IPCC report, significantly greater contractions are needed. IPCC recommends nettoning release for 2055 to remain within the range of tolerability, i.e. We can't spend more than we have. Our release must be on the right side of zero before the middle of the century, otherwise we look ahead of ecological bankruptcy. To achieve this, a linear contraction takes about 1,19,000 tons per year. Every year we wait to get started adds to the problem. So the objective is an 119,000 tons reduction per year, but the government's strategy has no documented contraction. It's supposed to be 1.5 billion. in the construction of electrical infrastructures, that is to make new registrations of automobiles allowing fossil fuels illegal for 2030; it should be protected by 4 billion in carbon binding, which delays the result but will not alter it. We can hardly bind anything today, and even if we could do more, we cannot bind carbon dioxide indefinitely. This, along with other research activities, makes a total of 6 billion dollars, perhaps 7 more than five years, a period of just over 1 billion years. every year. A solution to climateism will not be bought for less than 0.1%, and in fact much less, by the annual government funds. But goals can be achieved, and this requires a considerably more effective approach. We need to produce a substantial portion of the fuel we use within the country by means of chemical processes that are involved in the capture of carbon dioxide from factories and activation. It's part of the solution. By the end of 2021, we can achieve a immediate reduction of 230,000 tons with an investment. Such investment returns to national preparation immediately at a lower cost for importing oil. The legislation of the MARPOL Convention so that a ship in the Icelandic ocean stopped burning black oil and fueled fuel would even reduce 30,000,400,000 tons and the import of cars could be prohibited, e.g. To 2025, which could possibly save an additional 60,000 - 1 000 tons. A perfect electric accelerator may not be completely realistic in only seven years, but by significant improvement in public transportation and by other means even 50,000 tons could be saved. But all these suggestions, and this is the best thing I can figure out, will deliver 430,000 tons, which are about 10% of the target, and probably less than that. At the same time, with four-fold funding for forestry, we may be able to overcome the problem just by postponing the problem. An 116,000 tons reduction is too big to solve with the current strategy. We're going to have to attack the renovations, Mr. President. We're not going to have a chance to give Skúli fógeti a chance. We need to attack a national policy change that will bring about as much positive a change for the nation as the emigrants did for us in the 18th century, but instead of building a factory for Iceland's home bridges, we need to create a new export industry in knowledge of how other countries can save mankind from the climate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u41	A respectable president. The UNICCC report on the effects of 1.5°C warming is a very important report and has been referred to by many as the final warning of the scientific community that radical changes are needed to avoid the disastrous consequences of global warming. That's why I'm all about it. It should be noted at the beginning that the Paris Convention aims to keep global warming below 2°C relative to pre- industrial revolution, while trying to keep the temperature below 1.5°C. Why are these limits chosen? Scientists fear that if global warming exceeds this level, the climate crisis could become out of control. It's lying, for example. that if warming exceeds 2°C there is a significant increase in the possibility that irreversible emissions of Greenland will start. The effect would be an increase in the sea level about seven meters [7 m]. Clearly, only a fraction of that increase would result in massive loads in coastal areas around the world. The IPCC report is therefore an urgent need for Iceland and all the countries around the world to see that human climate change is a serious matter and that there is no time for action. The government in this country will take this message into work in a new version of the government plan of action that will be evident in the following year after the current consultation process. So we take the report very seriously. It is quite clear that in general the aims of countries such as those described in declarations on the basis of the Paris Convention are not radical and ambitious enough to ensure the 2°C goal, let alone the 1.5°C target. Discussion of a review of the policy level is on program 2020, and it is important to achieve the greatest solidarity among the world's countries for higher ambitions. There we cannot and will not abandon ourselves. Iceland can't provide global success as much as any other country can. But our duty is rich. We have many opportunities to reduce emissions and increase carbon binding, and we can also achieve other targets at the same time, such as lower health damage to air pollution and recovery of damaged ecosystems. This is now being won. The government has set out ambitious goals in climate matters. First, to follow European countries in achieving 40% reduction in 2030 compared with 1990 and non-carbonization in 2040. The IPCC report describes a lack of carbon fractions as being reached in 2050. The report also points out that fossil fuels are needed to be divided into the world's energy systems for renewable energy resources but are not sufficient, and therefore it takes great effort to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by capture and binding it. Our plan of action reflects these priorities. There are 34 of them. The programme will deal with all the main sources of carbon emissions and options and with large support for action. It is well - known internationally that this uses almost exclusively renewable energy for electricity production and house - warming, and we now have the opportunity to take the lead in using renewable energy for transportation and later for fishing. Thus, ambitious plans for the electricization of vehicle fleets, building structures in them, increasing public transport, etc. Thus we can attack the third revolution in the use of renewable energy. This requires that we work together as a team. Few countries also have larger opportunities to bind carbon into vegetation and soil. Here again, we can set an important example. That's important, especially for the noncarbons. I would also like to mention that Icelandic intelligence and knowledge in climate technology have attracted attention. These include carbon dioxide depletion of Hellishi, climate - friendly technology in ships, and so on. It is important that we increase innovation. It'll be even. carried out by implementing a climate fund as laid down in the Action Programme. Our strategy provides a range of emissions in all sectors, and these 34 actions are set forward to achieve these scenarios. We need accurate calculations, however, to see what is then accomplished. We certainly are aware of this, and this has always been true. That work will now take over, including Compared to the scenes mentioned above. The main stairway is to reduce oil consumption in road transport and later in the fishing road. In addition, our main potential is to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by binding to soil and vegetation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u42	A respectable president. Too long we've let the addicts and the callees decide to travel in climates. Their presentation can be attributed to the ostrich explanation, since it is always about putting his head in the sand. It is a retreat as planned, but it is safe to say that every building is fought. First, the ostrich commentator claims that he has every right to question the scientific conclusions and that people who protest such talk are kept political rights - good people. Second, says the ostrich commentator, there's nothing wrong with global warming. Didn't you know it yesterday? Third, while global warming is becoming evident, it is not because of man - made greenhouse effect but because it is nature itself, a volcanic eruption. Fourth, while global warming is being caused by man - made greenhouse effects, it is good news, we can go to sunbathing, the growth of vegetation. Fifth, while warming will have disastrous consequences for the lives of humans on earth, it is too late to react, too expensive to stop using oil, and it is almost focused on eliminating hunger while waiting for another globe to be found, where mankind can take possession of it. A respectable president. Let us not listen to the destructive forces, the lazy ones, who have no desire to work at nothing, but believe that the earth's gifts can be gone forever without consequences. We have no time to lose. This is mankind's most important issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u43	A respectable president. This morning, I had the privilege of visiting Iceland's National Weather Office, along with the Environment and Transport Committee. There we received a clear explanation of what lay ahead. It was there, for example. Talk about a natural problem, a category of climate change that appears to be a natural problem. When we consider the events that have already been discussed in the current report, I can effectively connect with what lies ahead and what we need to do, etc. I'm just gonna run into what's next for me. Then I look at myself as the little Icelander on what kind of danger lies ahead of me. I think it's very important that we all wonder what danger lies ahead in the climate change ahead. For one thing, ocean acidification is a serious matter, and scientists predict that it will increase. It has a tremendous impact on fish stocks, their evolution, etc. As a fishing nation, we need to wonder seriously what lies ahead in this regard. It is also the threats we anticipate. The result will be greater, and we are at risk of increasing floods and landslides. Our lives are affected by all of this. I'll get to that later in a speech after what I think we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u44	President. Thank you for your important discussion. Climates are one of the biggest things to come, but not just for the future, but right now. So I would like to use this opportunity, when we present a United Nations International Commission report on climate change, to discuss the excellent climate control programme until 2030, which was introduced in its first issue in the autumn and is in consultation until this month's convention. The aim of the climate action programme is, like, the highest. A minister entered, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and to promote increasing carbon binding so that Iceland can live with the objective of the Paris Convention to 2030, and the government's aim for noncarbonization in 2040. This is a pan-European programme consisting of 34 activities in many areas, with two main emphasises, first of all, on transport energy exchange, with special emphasis on electricalization in road transport, which is regarded as our greatest opportunity to achieve the commitments of Iceland with the Paris Convention, is to replace oil with environmental energy. However, the main role of forestry and land transplants is its action, and greenhouse gas emissions will be effectively reduced by the recovery of wetlands. The strategy also contains measures related to waste, agriculture, marine soil, education, etc. What matters is that this is not the sole project of the government. The whole community needs to be involved with us, each individual, business, organisation, etc. Speaking of this, I may want to end this talk on a slightly positive note: In a report by the European Commission on the seafront, which was published in December 2030, simple enough to say that the fishing road has reached its goal at the Paris Convention, where it aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% in 2030, while the fishing road had already reduced its emissions in 2016 by 43% since 1990. However, the report shows that this is not enough; it needs to be done better. I think there's some positive evidence of what's to come, to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u45	V.E.G. President. I want to be like others to thank you for this fine discussion. Of course, Iceland has to look at itself, and Iceland also has to share what we know and do best on a global scale. Government plans are excellent, but somehow, I feel that they are trying to put the focus on something that is certainly important, but they are not the most important person in these matters. The mob is put on a private car with the government, expected to draw attention to a certain goal. The private car is decomposing or dislodging the whole of 3◯5%. It provides negative incentives, carbon bills, and such instead of positive inducers. Why not award the diesel or fuel truck more than is being done today and create an incentive for these cars to be replaced? How does the government intend to approach e.g. the pollution that comes from tourism? Travellership is likely the most polluted industry. As mentioned earlier, the seabed has done well. But we also need to ask ourselves, " What can we do in Iceland to improve? ' Can we make more of Iceland's energy? Is there a possibility that we could make better use of our resources? Can we reduce the import of an application and a new cognac to apply to the cow? Is there much more to use than we do today? Do we usually have to produce more energy? We need to activate more geothermal and fallen waters to live, for example. to use hydrogen or to increase the use of electricity in transportation? But we are also to be successful worldwide. Of course, we should use the energy available in Iceland to produce products that are sold worldwide more than we can do. We are also required to communicate knowledge when it comes to land healing. Farming, e.g. In Africa or in the countries that are struggling with great desertification, there is a tremendous advantage if we use it. That's why I say, at the highest. President, that the money we're about to show off in UNESCO would be better spent setting, for example. in the desert agreement or other such measures against greenhouse pollution, instead of showing us off there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u46	Mr. President. I want to thank the advisor and the highest. Minister for their contribution here. We are so happy to have a full and accurate report of the 2018 Scientific Committee on climate change and their impact on land. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Global warming is indistinguishable, and many observations point to changes in the middle of the last century, which, whether for decades or millenniums, are unprecedented. The atmosphere and the oceans have grown warm, have reduced levels of snow and ice, as well as rising sea levels and increasing greenhouse gas concentrations. It also states that the sea's acid pH rose, as is called the 0.1 pH of the industrial revolution, and its biomarkers are already visible. I think it's important that they say there's a need for research, repair and adjustment. On the part of the Scientific Committee, significant consequences of climate change have been noted in Iceland. This increases the need for monitoring and testing on various aspects of the natural world. It is a great project to complete basic information on the natural world and to improve long-term environmental and marine and national monitoring. I would especially like to draw attention to what is presented in this excellent research report. It is very detailed, but this may be a reason to draw special attention to the fact that the economic and social impacts of climate change on the various sectors of Icelandic society have not been studied and the need to correct it as well as so many other factors in this area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u47	Mr. President. This is due to the important discussion here. That's a big problem. He's become rather disorganized and will have a major impact on nature and our human society here on earth, even in Iceland, if we don't try to react. These include a number of factors, such as energy exchanges, wetlands recovery, public transportation, plastic problems, green motivations, changes in agriculture, and so many other things. We have also accepted commitments that include the important things in this context, that if we fail to resist, we will even have to pay large sums of money in a kind of fines not to do us. How important it is, then, that we take these matters seriously! Of course, there are many things to say, but little time is available. But I'd like to draw one specific point, i.e. energy exchange through automobile traffic. There we have one of the greatest governments, and we can act quickly and effectively. There traffic detoxation is important. Thus, the reduction in previous plans for the increase in car fuel costs is increasing noticeably. I must ask how it harmonizes with the aims of reducing emissions from traffic to lower carbon costs and disappearing from the plans of the former financial minister to raise the cost considerably. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u48	A respectable president. Global changes affect all of us. It is enough to reason, not on how climate change affects us personally, but on what changes are happening to us throughout the world and how it affects us. It's hard to think that way, but we must. With regard to the government's operation program, I would like to point to the obvious defects of the document as it is today. We'd have liked to see numbers. We know the scope of commitment. It is not enough to know what the action is. Rather, we need to know the extent of the operation. We need to see our goals and goals as soon as possible, even though there are not accurate numbers on what is reaching with our goals, but what action needs to be met. These figures can be more accurate later. We are talking about two types of commitments, one related to the Paris meeting where we are expected to stay under a certain temperature. 2°C or well-targeted is the major objective, but the maximum requirements are 1.5°C. Then there is the Kyoto Protocol, which is also a commitment that we have undertook where we need to reduce emissions from our current position, i.e. The emissions target, about 50% relative to the current position or 40% compared to 1990. In other words, we are in a worse position now than we were when the goal was set. This is very difficult, for we are, in effect, looking at our being on earth. The longest period of human history is without man, and the earth has no need for man. After we have disappeared from the history books of the universe, the earth will continue to exist, but we would like to be traveling there a little longer. Sadly, we are not showing this by our actions. It's something important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u49	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion of the new report by the United Nations Climate Committee, which is blacker than many people have suspected, or more so, than many would like to hear. In fact, we need some special discussions about the content of the report, so serious. It has ended up being called the final call, the greatest warning published by the scientific community. Some say that the warnings have already taken place, but the reaction of the international community is being maintained. As we know, if we are not to avert average global temperature rise by more than 1.5 °C, we need 2.5% of the world's production rate per year for climate change, each year to 2035, if we are not going to prevent the average temperature on earth from increasing by more than 1.5 °C, with tragic consequences for the entire environment. Based on these data from 90 scientists reporting, the Icelandic government would have to spend less than 64 billion on climate operations 50 times as much as the government's plans. The price tag is striking hair, but it's not all that's striking at the report. The official objective of the Paris Convention is to keep Earth's global warming below 2°C but emphasis is placed on the government of Member States on the agreement to maintain warming below 1.5°C. This requires clear results in earth's temperature not increasing more than 1.5 °C prior to 2030. Otherwise, the struggle for the viable future of the earth is lost. A respectable president. They're going to have to deal with extreme climate change. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It takes radical, social, political, economic, and cultural changes. They're needed. The root of this striking conclusion in the report that we now address, and climate change is a capitalistic organization. We need to recognize this. The Capitalism in its worst form has caused our consumption to affect our nature, our earth, and our climate. We need to make radical changes in our way of life and in our community now based on the thought of protecting nature and preventing further damage. In spite of good intentions, it is not enough to bring up a very good climate plan, which is an essential step rather than a stop. We need to do so much more than be on our toes. [[The president calls.]] According to one report, in order to maintain warming less than 1.5°C, the share of renewable energy needs to be between 20% and 70%, and the world has become a nothing of carbon for the middle of the century. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are huge goals, but we have no choice but to follow them. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u50	The president reminds the senators to give a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u51	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the discussion. Although we may be A small nation in the large context can have a powerful influence for good and for bad. We Icelanders are in many ways a privileged nation. We have large amounts of resources, green, sustainable resources, but we are also a consumer nation, and we also have high standards of living which can be said to be characterised by energy waste, energy waste, including energy production. in not using the resources we already use, energy waste of what we buy and throw away without using. The report we are discussing here today is, in a sense, devastating, not because it is so badly written, but because its message is shocking, just terrible. The report is taken from the Paris Convention that was signed two years ago, and most of the world's nations were united to stop the rise in greenhouse gas emissions. Sadly, according to this report, it is rather unlikely that such goals will be achieved. The fact is, then, that if we are going to achieve these goals, we will not reduce or risk it altogether, but we will also have to bind carbon dioxide in abundance and, as we have seen, change our way of life. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Mr. President. This is not the first time we have this discussion. We know what needs to be done, but it requires a concerted effort, and not just for our Icelanders but for the rest of the world. On the other hand, we Icelanders can and should take the lead. We need immediate action. Tomorrow's getting us. We can make more use of it. We can reduce consumption. [[The president calls.]] We can increase binding. Mr. President. We can, and we have to do better. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u52	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion here. Although there is reason to worry and to take the tips seriously, there are things that are working well on our good country. It has been mentioned in the discussion that the fishing route has already achieved its effectiveness in fulfilling the objectives of total emissions. We're producing the most environmentally friendly aluminium in the world of Grundartans, in the midst of Straumsvík, and in the midst of Straumsvík. We're getting quite successful, and we're supposed to do much better in our own land and forestry, so we're not facing an empty blackness. I also believe that we have to look at how this is affecting us in a global context. In many areas large factories are driven by coal, and emissions are inexhaustible in such nations. At the same time, we have the main focus on traffic in the government plan of action, of the 34 points in which we see 11 turn to traffic. What I'm worried about is that we're putting the emphasis at a very low level. If we assume that the number is right and a road trip results in 3How5% of the nation's emissions, we will put the emphasis on it simply, in view of the results that can be achieved in that area. That's what I think we need to keep in mind when we continue our discussion, that we put the energy and emphasis where success can be achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u53	A respectable president. I thank you for this very important discussion here, and maybe not least the verbal vendetta, okay? paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy, for being a little solution in his discussion. That's what we need. We're here to discuss the final warning of the scientific community, such as the highest level. A minister correctly entered, and his appearance is certainly black. Our primary mission is to ensure continued quality of life despite the changes we need to make in human conduct. I believe that the answer to that is mutual action by governments and scientists, but also professional life and public. We need to secure a socially responsible market economy. We need to ensure that global warming will not exceed 1.5 °C, but we also need to consider adjusting to what will inevitably happen. We need, for example. To consider our infrastructure, our social edifices, our resources, and other things, as it were, in connection with nature. But it should not be that in the middle of all these calamities there is a chance? The knowledge industry in Iceland, our innovation associated with the environment, may be an opportunity for the nation. I think we have a lot to offer when it comes to climate and environment. We can just look at it as export products, and we have a lot to say when it comes to development support is introduced to climate, whether through binding or by other technical implementations. We can simply become the center of knowledge and innovation in climate and Arctic issues. I think it is also important to watch that many of the measures we have to take have far - reaching results, not just in climate matters. I would especially like to mention public transportation, which can certainly be effective in climate matters and so many other things; improved society, improved safety, and improved public health. The opportunities are in many places in the midst of the disaster, but I stress that we are certainly supposed to discuss the environment much more often in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u54	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this fine discussion and thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for starting this important subject. Many fine points have been made today in this debate, and it is clear that the matter is of importance to the council. In many ways, the United Nations agrees on the need to do as well. It's all about methodology. What can we do to reduce emissions? We should always think as individuals. We should think of how we remove our carbon footprints, surrounding footprints, etc., not just saying that the State has to do this and do that. In an effort to reduce emissions, everyone has to lie down and try to stop the threat that lies ahead. What can we do? It's been shown here. What I would like to stress is more important than the opportunities we have for foresting and recovery of wetlands, and not to forget our land healing. There we can make a lot of money, making up land, but we just need extra money to do that. There are very many hands and a very great knowledge from across the country to heal a country. It is much easier to plant a forest after man has planted the land. Then we can multiply the results in equalizing carbon to what we're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u55	A respectable president. I'm going to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, for this need and good discussion. It's something important that I'm going to start by saying, but I congratulate the government with the obvious and good will it shows in its work on climate issues and on the defences in these matters. It can be better, though, if necessary. Little things are going to be in the context of a huge one. Take, for example, the cruise ships. There are increasing numbers, estimated to be 140 next year. One ship is believed to be contaminated in a 24 hour period with 10,000 cars. These 140 ships pollute them with 1.4 million automobiles. We are now talking about how much pollution the cars are, but we know that it is our livestock and cattle that are believed to be responsible for 14% of all greenhouse pollution on earth. I'm not saying that, and I don't like it, that evolution becomes such that we all have to eat vegetables or get bored trying to fix it, but that's good for those who want to do it. If that is the future, we will not succumb to it at this point. The General, isn't it? It's okay for us to follow through, just like we're doing here so far. All I'm saying is, "Go, go, go, go, go! " I believe this is one of the issues that we can all agree that we should fight for with our mouths and jaws, all as one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u56	Mr. President. In the case of the highest. The environmental minister presented the personal problem. He even pointed. in an injection of Hellishra, estimated to be able to deliver about 50 to 100 tons of dejected per year next to Hellish activation, which pumps out 200 tons of carbon dioxide a day. We have to look at this realistic. As soon as I thank you for a good discussion, I stress that the goal is to gather some 1,16,000,119,000 tons a year. It's the only thing that will help us. We need to go further. It is well known that countries who resolve to solve enormous problems and turn the State's existence on their task not only have been able to solve them more often but also have often managed to capture very positive side effects along the way. If the government were to see, not climate change as an unpleasant trouble that would have to be solved, but an opportunity for the Icelandic nation to establish a leading position in the world, our economy could benefit. That's why I'm calling for a new introduction, a new industrial revolution in behalf of the environment. This requires more than a billion a year, and it takes more than vague goals. So I'm going to go to the highest. Environment Minister: The government must ensure 119,000 tons of emissions per year for the next 12 years, including this year. The government needs to ensure that at least tenfolds of budget should meet this goal. The government needs to set up some kind of website that shows how far we are going to reach the goals of the Paris Treaty, supported by references. The Icelandic energy, technology and innovation companies have to plan to achieve this goal, not just for 2030, but long enough before that time to make Iceland's credibility grow in this area and that we can not only reduce Iceland's emissions but make money on helping the world. If we can't do this, all the other countries are screwed. The general council has to pay the street of these estimates without getting caught in the pits of ideologies. If we can't, there won't be much more ideologies to play with. [[The president calls.]] President. [[The president calls.]] Tiny moments come to give people the opportunity to show what is in them. I hope we have enough to solve this problem. [[The president calls.]] The future of mankind is at stake. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u57	V.E.G. President. I want to start by sincerely saying so with a bang. A senator of what is here, and he rejoices in the interest and support of the United States Congress and in particular the advocate of this matter. It is extremely important to discuss this, and it is much more than we do. We've been back in the climate a long time, but I'd like to say we're turning around. We need to help with all of this. There's even one here. We've been discussing numbers, and I agree that we're going to have to get a little better at what we're going to do, that's what I've said before. But speaking of numbers, I have to correct this by means of the road transport. They're 32% of the direct commitments of Iceland. One of the most important factors in reducing commitment is the use of oil, so we must deal with it. Many of the encouragements have been presented here, and many of these are already being carried out in an action program or even in foreign policy. There's one thing I'd like to mention here that we're going to get into action and that's to create an adjustment plan for climate change in Iceland. It's a project that'll start in the next few hours at the Ministry. Mr. President. Let us not forget, however, that action has taken place, and the project is about to complete the procedure presented in September. We must also be aware that in view of this huge project, we need to evaluate which areas we can be more radical and do even more, taking into account our estimates. I am very happy that a new action plan marks a turning point in terms of funding and force to climate. That, on its own, I think it's a big deal in the environment in Iceland. I'm going home more than when I came to see him, and for that, I want to thank the Senate very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u58	The arrangement has been agreed on. The minister has ten minutes to history, and two minutes after the discussion. During the 11 minutes, 13 minutes of conversion, 20 minutes of independence party, 13 minutes of Central Party, 14 minutes of forward, Piratar 13 minutes, 1 11 minutes, and nine minutes of left movement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u59	A respectable president. At every request. paritaprevir I ended up with Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson and other generals. spring report to the General for the publication of the application to the silica plant United silicone Corp. In Helgarvík. In addition to the questions presented in the request for affidavit, the report suggests that the entry of the license is attributed to the job permit. This report is now under discussion, along with a report published by the National Reexamination Agency on the arrival and monitoring of the government for a controlled factory. My report to the Generalis reports that the affairs of the Conspiracy of silicone Corp. There is no precedent here. It is very important that we learn from this matter. The report refers to the process due to evaluation of the environmental impact of the Agency and the application for the Agency's work permit. In assessments of environmental impact on the activities of the Joint silicone Corporation. was expected to adversely affect air quality, and it was suggested in the opinion of the Agency that emissions of pollutants from the factory would be added to the pollution that has already occurred in Helgavík. However, the conclusion was that at the same time the concentrations of pollutants would be increased, while the air quality in the region would always be below the limits of the Icelandic Regulation. As reported in my report, the EEA's published work permit for the Joint Silicons was set the limits of emissions of pollutants, as usual, and monitored according to monitoring schedule. At the time of the work of the factory, emissions never crossed the allowed limits on the authorised pollutants, dust, sulfur dioxide, various heavy metals, oils, fats, and particulates. However, at the granting of the work permit, the extensive olfactory effect was not anticipated, although such effects are not known from similar national activities or available information on such effects in a foreign country. Is it really bad? As noted in the National Review report on the case by the local owners of the joint silicone that when the factory began a business, the equipment was inadequate and the factory was not yet finished. That's serious. Clearly, the EEA has never had as much work as it was in the case of a joint silicone Corp Corp. The subject was even reflected. on a number of EEA monitoring trips to the factory, the demand for improvements, the importance of public and government information, the assessment of health impacts and major measures near the factory. There has already been a new surveillance experience in preparing a similar work permit, such as with detailed measures to protect against olfactory pollution at the launch of the PCC's silica plant at Bakkas at Húsavík. A report by the secretary to the council reports that the operator of the joint silicone hf has been identified. There were no specific requirements for law and regulations as well as for other government requirements. The published building permits and activities have not been consistent with the evaluation of environmental effects or any existing organization. According to the report, the continuing activities of the factory in Helga obviously require operators to meet the requirements of law and regulations for the operation and to complete final improvements in the construction and organization. In these cases the EEA has informed the operator of a review of the factory's work permit, including due to needed update in view of changes in law. The Agency has agreed to the Management Board's improvement program on conditions and has no authority to restart until after review of the EEA's improvements and decision. At last the Management Board should inform the Agency of any change in manpower, activities and environmental impact since the evaluation of environmental impact. As noted earlier, The State Accounting won the assessment of the coming and monitoring of the government by means of a silica plant made of silicone at the same time a minister's report to the council was taken. The Ministry has already taken into account the comments made by the National Reexamination and a meeting with the EEA, the Organization and the Ministry of Employment and Development for them. In a report by the Re-evaluation Board, the following recommendations are directed to the Environment and Resource Ministry: First, to investigate in cooperation with the EEA and other governments whether or not the requirements for persons applying for cataplexy activities are strict. They need to set clear and realistic requirements for the reliability and quality of the data provided by the application procedure. And second, to ensure that, as possible, companies wishing to have permission to pollute operations have technical, professional, and financial access to meet the requirements of an application. The Ministry's comments to State Review agree with the National Reconclusion to see if there should be an increased demand for those applying for employment and that has already been considered by the Ministry in consultation with the appropriate government. Official reviews also pointed out that the Ministry had recently been working to strengthen environmental legislation in this area. In 2017, the laws on loyalty and pollution were designed to increase the requirements for pollution. Change of law No. 66/2017 came to a significant value on July 1, 2017, i.e. After approval of the joint silicone hf. dose was published. This adjustment allowed for industrial emissions to be introduced into Icelandic. These changes require that the published work permit be directly submitted to relevant results on the best available technology, including There you will set up regulations for the mobilisation boundaries due to the activity. The operator should take into account the changes in the quality of the best available technology, provide basic environmental reporting prior to new activities, and ensure that, at the end of business, quality is recovered, e.g. Industrial cover should be returned to the same condition as the baseline report. In addition, the duties and responsibilities of the operators were added to underline their responsibility that the activities are always in accordance with existing legislation and license. In spring, the new Regulation No. 550/018 on emissions from industry and air pollution control including The EEA's sources are laid down to require, in particular, stricter labour requirements than the results of best available technology. In addition to this, it is planned to submit an ongoing legislation of the bill for a change in commitment and pollution prevention in which the Agency's authority is laid upon the operators due to its violations on the activities of the Marketing Authorisation. If there is a law-enforcement bill planned, potential violations of the operator can also be dealt with by stress of the administrative ticket. The Ministry's comments to State Review agree that it requires clear and practical requirements for the accuracy and quality of the data provided by the application procedure but also shows the importance of the operator being responsible for all data being correct and professionally performed. In addition, it is generally noted that the recruiter is responsible for all conditions for its activities, including the availability of appropriate professional knowledge. The Council feels that there is a similar need for expertise in the publication of the Marketing Authorisation and is proposed to evaluate the environmental impact of the bill for changing the law on the environmental impact proposed at the last legislation, whether or not it is a right to require the expert information of the operator to meet the requirements of the procedure and if it is right to require the required discharge of an Marketing Authorisation that he/she has sufficient expertise or to acquire it. Is this for the ministry investigation? The Ministry also agrees with Government Accounting that it is important for the local government to check the financial abilities of the operator in the preparation of international agreements, but it is necessary to review how they are being handled, as shown in a report by the State Review Board. Work on that is now being started at the Ministry of pro and innovation. The Environmental and Resource Ministry also points out that the EEA does not have a legal role in the analysis of the financial foundations of an enterprise prior to the release of the work permit, but is the role of the Agency to monitor factors that are involved in environmental monitoring, including pollution prevention and the implementation of those related requirements. In their report a review of the legislation on the environmental impact of the Agency should be reviewed and the opinion that the level of knowledge required of the members involved in the evaluation should be considered, whether to support the central review of the Agency's primary assessment report, and whether to ensure maintenance of measures when implementation is not in line with environmental assessment. As mentioned earlier, it is intended to restore the bill to the current Parliament for changing the environmental assessment legislation. If the bill is legal, it will improve the quality of the management measures in assessing environmental impact due to the directive's requirement for expertise in the preparation of the primary assessment report and review of environmental impact data as well as the authority's legislation. In addition, this will further contribute to the implementation of the Agency's opinion of the environmental impact of the medicinal product. Further, on the proposed global review of environmental impact assessments, which can be said to be initiated in August, this will be considered. ... withan initial meeting of environmental and resource ministers with stakeholders. - I was in the meaning, Mr. President, that I had ten minutes. Was it a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u60	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u61	That's when I quit for now. I see there's still nine minutes left.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u62	The president was trying to be generous and to slip it to the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u63	Mr. President. More than a year ago, I took the initiative that the Council proposed two reports on the distribution of a work permit to a silica plant of cohesion in Helguvík. The second request was directed to Environment and Resource Minister and to the much larger member of the Management Board at the National Reconnaissance. Based on the report request, it was a crisis that took place all in the spring days of 2017. Then the factory had been fired for only a few months, but from the beginning the road was drenched with thorns, and people around the factory repeatedly complained about the smell and physical discomfort. After repeated attempts to reform, the EEA halted last September 1st. However, I would like to say this: It says that the affairs of the Conspiracy have no precedent in the region and that it is important to learn from this experience. I take my heart to that word, Mr. President, but I also want to point out that it is by no means possible that the correct lesson is drawn from that sad story. The request to a government accountant involved checking the publication of an application to the factory in Helgarvík and the access of the government, follow-up, and resources. The report has a total of seven indications directly to two advisers and three subsets. At the Department of Employment and Development, they received a fall-rate for the design of an international agreement with a combined silicone based on data and information from the company itself. Not even a clear piece of information on ownership and management was provided, but it was expected that the maximum concentration-efficient government support would be up to a billion dollars. For the Environment and Resource Ministry, National Reexamination was two indications to increase the requirements for environmental impact assessments and to investigate whether to increase the requirements for application of the application procedure. This was further discussed in indications for the Agency, the EEA and the work programme of the state. In summary, increased requirements for environmental assessment are needed, ensuring that applications for work permit are thoroughly and critical, supplementing work practices and improving communication and maintaining monitoring workbooks, which suggest preparation, repair and adapting the monitoring procedures. The report explains how important it is for government agencies involved in the publishing of jobs and the making of retail agreements to verify the potential for those seeking to operate the contaminated industry to meet the requirements of such management and the truthfulness of the information they provide. The fact is, once the production started and never worked in line with the assessment of environmental impact, work permit, and aim of a contract, the silica factory of the joint silicone was not finished. The Report of Public Review is a continuous sentence of action, implementation, and follow-up of this project, which was so high in expectations at baseline. The loss of this adventure is tremendous, both billions of banks and pensions, and the loss of Smokeytown, which must deal with the negative consequences of this situation. A so - called confirmation error, or in English, with the permission of a president, is a term that describes the tendency of people to look only for explanations or information that support their preconceived views, or to interpret information only in a way that confirms predetermined or -transformed ideas, as well as to ignore information contrary to these preconceived ideas. I do not deny that this term came to mind when reading a summary of Kingdom Review on this series of events all around the plant in Helguvík. You see, history goes back beyond 2014 when this judgment - free agreement was signed. The events of the previous years are well covered in the morning newspaper's extensive coverage at that time. It paints a rather unpleasant picture of government interference on this matter. Such interference is indeed likely to have affected these events, which in turn gains a decline score in a state review report. I don't have time to recall what went on in connection with the government's investment agreement with Northern World, in connection with the proposed plant in Helgavík, signed in 2009. Neither is the thrust around the holding of HD Power or the loss of energy contracts with North World in Helga. From the events of all of this, political issues were decided as to whether it was the preferred option, an aluminium or a silica plant, and it became the upper part of the plant. However, a report by State Review reveals that the conclusion was based on sand at best. Mr. President. I'm certainly not minimizing the responsibility of the Coalitions in Helgavík, who seem to have misled authorities, patrolrs, and others with the wrong information, I am afraid to say every time that was desired. Their responsibility is great, and it is urgent that in the years that followed, there will be a thorough task for the judicial system to resolve the confusion. However, the government has no doubt the greatest responsibility here. They were to ensure public interest, but they were not. Do not repeat this procedure. We need to learn from this bitter experience, but I bear in mind that it is a big mistake to think that such a lesson comes on its own or when we read this report alone. It takes determined will and hard work to learn from this process to ensure that all indications of the Kingdom Accounting will be accepted and followed seriously and with full weight in the future. There, the role of governments is great, and the role of governments is vital. Otherwise, their involvement should be as little as possible. You see, experience shows that politicians, possibly more important, are vulnerable to the inconsistencies. It is not good luck to control it, since the public seldom responds to such a course. I'm sure it's possible for the public at Smokejanestown to confirm.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u64	Mr. President. My home is a five - mile [5 km] away from the industrial area in Helga, where it was taken up to build what was supposed to be the largest plant in the world and plan to build another plant right next to it, including the largest one in the world. The idea was to build two of the world's largest silica plants only about a mile from the population, 1.5 miles from school and nursery. As a Southern man, I watched the history of a silica factory of United silicone Corp. That didn't end well. It seems that the politics and the management of the rural level, in councils, and in monitoring institutions have failed the citizens of Smokejanestown at all levels of the building process. In a weak position in the city of Rhineses, contracts were made for the plant. In June 2013 the factory's work permit was applied about a year later. Production began in November 2016. In her report, the factory was not finished when it was started and was not equipped to work in accordance with the assessment of environmental impact, issued work permit, or the target targeted according to the fair agreement. After strikingly reading a report by the National Review of the plant in Holguvík, I read news on the vf.is websites about the factory. During the summer of 2015, news reports and fistulas were very positive, although in some articles, critics were observed. Shortly after the production of the factory in the fall of 2016, negative reports increased, though at the same time the company and monitoring agencies were quoted as having only initial problems. News of the people complaining about the bad outcome of a burning smell immediately increased. At a local meeting, one resident said that a gas sensor had started when he had a door open for a while. He was concerned that the chemicals other than those being measured flowed from the factory. Another resident, living over 1,200 miles [1,200 m] away from the factory, said that he had purchased his house in an area that was defined as inhabited by the factory, was the house in an contaminated area. Reports were made of a number of complaints received to the EEA and to the Southern Health Organization. A pathologist was quoted as not saying that people were in grave danger because of possible air pollution, but he urged people to seek medical help to feel any symptoms. It was reported that a psychiatrist had reviewed information from Southnes' clinic, a number of specific diagnosiss, and the sale of respiratory drugs in Southnes. He had also considered complaints from local residents in the area of the factory in Helguvík and the outcome. The assessment by a psychiatrist of available health impacts from the factory was that it seemed to cause mild eye and respiratory irritation in healthy subjects, but in different individuals. People with underlying respiratory disorders may have experienced asthma symptoms, which in many cases required specific administration of the medicinal product. The symptoms may be due to what has been measured, and there is evidence that the factory may be exhalated. Therefore, further measurements of these materials would be necessary to further evaluate the potential health impacts of pollution. In September of last year's world tour of the Viking News, in which nearly 1,800 people were involved, it showed that seven out of ten residents of the town of Rhines found pollution from the plant United Silicon, Helguvík. The inhabitants experienced as some animal experimentation, that they should see how long they could handle the diatom's pollution. By the summer of 2017, it was enough and an unacceptable situation has arrived. The factory was closed, and inflation was described as being followed, but what will be the future of the silica plant? Is the current owners serious about putting the factory back in motion, and will the citizens of Smokeytown accept it? What can the town government do in this situation? Singlesberg ehf. He is the new owner of the silica plant in Helguvík. This summer, Stikksberg announced a proposal for an assessment plan for the new silican environmental assessment. The motion was advertised in the media on June 21st. and was asked for comments from the public. Singlesberg ehf. is a partner owned by Anion Bank, which has taken over the silica plant in Helvíkík of United Silicon ehf's swelling farm. The company reports that the aim of Stiksberg is to make all the improvements needed to meet the EEA's requirements, but the Agency has concluded in January of this year that the factory did not meet the work permit. On October 12rd, I was rejected by the Council of Environment and Organization of Smokejanes City. Requesting permission to perform the multiplicity conversion in Helga, in accordance with a structure and assessment description. The planning and assessments were also rejected. On October 16, the chairman of the town council recommended the proposal for more of the agreed object. The proposal suggests that there is uncertainty about the state of planning in Helguík and unclear whether the factory can resume its work on the basis of a current organization. The state of uncertainty about the obligation of the town of Smokeynes to accept such a request on the basis of which it is submitted. The current CV structure and implementation of the Agency need to be better investigated and the execution of a prospective environmental assessment is reasonable prior to the start of the review of the shared organization. The proposal suggests that the town government of the city of Smokenes wants citizens to determine if this factory should continue to operate. It is clear, Mr. President, that there must be a lesson to learn from the willingness that took place in the construction of the plant in Hades. This kind of thing can never happen again. The history of United Silicon's silica plant in Helga is to be a warning example. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u65	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son for the report request and agree on this. That was very effective. I also want to thank the Minister for his past history and for those who have spoken here. This, of course, is a very serious matter that has led to great disappointment. I hope that the reports we've had here, both the government report on how to get there and the government's monitoring and the report from the minister for the discussion, will be a lesson to us, as the previous speaker showed. The most important thing is to learn some lesson from what was going on in there, or perhaps, rather than what was not meant to be done there. In view of the situation in the South, it needs to be reviewed. In 2006, the United States Army went away fairly quickly, and hundreds of jobs were soon lost, unemployment jumped and was, to my reminds, most of 15 to16%. When this happens in a place where there is a general low salary, there's going to be a lot of grappling in society. Of course, they were trying to deal with it at that time and to get new employment opportunities, where the offer would be well paid jobs. The average wage in the area was to be tried and sought to find a well - paying job. But I think it's very important that we understand what the situation was. This was before the mackerel swam into the jurisdiction, and before the tourists came here in large numbers. It was not until 2011 that tourists began growing from 600,000 a year to 2.4 million today. So, of course, there is a very different situation on Southnes in this regard, but let us not forget what the situation was. It was never anyone's will that a huge industry spraying contaminating material over the population. Of course, that was never the idea. There was a situation where representatives of the later united silicone came to the town of Rhine. They produced plans for the production of environmental sunlight. It was, of course, very comfortable with people, as the talk showed. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný Harðardóttir daughter back here. Of course, this was not to be a cause for pollution, but was to produce solarium, which would then be used to produce environmental energy. In that light, that option seemed quite good. The production was supposed to be pollution free, but we've heard information about how it turned out. It is the natural sorrow behind all of this and the experiences of the people miserable; the effects of production on health, as shown in the previous talk, so that seven out of 10 were contacted by the doctor and experienced all kinds of symptoms. In the leading of this structure, Keilir, the centre of science and education, conducted a poll for the Southern Union when this structure was developed. It was then found that 77% of the companies asked for the construction of the silicone factory in Helguvík and 68% of the population agreed that getting such activity would have a positive effect on the work in the Southnes. It was the spirit at the start of the operation. We must not forget that. He was like that. There was high expectations for well - paying jobs and structure, and the hope that the harbor in Helga would be secured. The leader of the silicone factory in Helgavík received many opportunities and assistance from society. He was given an investment agreement, and as noted earlier, it may have been necessary to consider more carefully the financial situation of those who did so when that process was going on. We need to learn a lesson from the way it was done, and it is important that such a mistake not be repeated despite the possibility of high hopes in such structure. I also think it's very important that we here are aware that no matter what we have strong laws, how many rules we make, how good ministers and officials we have in these institutions, as it has truly been said we have, there are no laws against treachery. There is no law against those who cheat or lie. That's the way it is. It doesn't matter what law we put in at the council, those who are determined to violate it, and we will never be able to make room for it. That's what happened south of my hometown. What a disappointment that was! Hopes for well - paying jobs and careful activity failed. It cost billions of lives to banks and investments and to our rural society, which suffered greatly because of this terrible project. This community is left with large debts, and the community was paralyzed for months because of this activity and the conduct of the owner of this community, not just to employees, but to unions and residents in the city of Rhinestown. Inexpensive and indiscriminate methods were used to produce the sun's sun sun sun sun sun sun, which would end up as a environmental energy source somewhere on the beach. The problem was that the diagnostic devices, which contained pollution, did detect particles and dust, but they did not detect the smell. There was a problem. I, the half-sounding man, did not go off part of what was going on. Of course, because of all this, there was a terrible spirit in society. I think it was because there was so much frustration. Then, too, the mackerel had come and all the tourists, just everybody had enough to do. It was never the will of society and is not the will of society or of its citizens or of the industry to build a life of pollution that has a negative impact on the population. At the end of my talk, a respectable president, I would like to quote the concluding words of the minister's report, which says: The Commission of Environment and Resources agrees with the EEA on the Conspiracy of silicone Corp. has had such a special position, the Agency has never had such a high level of work control. The Agency has made a number of observation measures clear, focusing on informing the public and the government in accordance with its information policy, having consulted and receiving a physician's assessment of health impacts, making detailed measures as well as providing self-monitoring measures for pollutants and forced management measures. Experience from monitoring of the function has been new in preparing workforces for similar activities, including with detailed measures to protect against olfactory pollution, as is the case with the publication of PCC's factory to Bakkas in Húsavík. The EEA has given over the past few years much emphasis on strengthening knowledge and skills in the publishing of job vacancies and monitoring of contaminated activities. This has been done by a sentence of clear, ongoing revisions, participation in foreign cooperation, re-education of staff, and focus on teamwork. A respectable president. A clear process of action, ongoing reevaluation, and reevaluation is a fine price, but it never prevents deliberate and determined violations from being accomplished. I hope, as other speakers have said here, that we will never again face such hardship, and the people of Southnes have been involved in this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u66	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something like that. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson came in his speech, which I think must bear in mind on the whole matter. As it turns out, I think most of what it looks like, inaccurate information, misinformation, fraud, and tricks have been used at most levels of the case in order to get the case going. Hv. An apocalyptic, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, came to the conclusion that false information was presented to the government's institutions on most occasions where they were requested. I can see why. A senator gets down to me, so there wasn't much error in this. Of course, this is a serious situation. But in order to protect the institutions, it is not simple for government agencies to protect themselves from any approach as these, since it is unprecedented, as it were at the highest level. Minister came in, and we have to hope that this is a business situation. It is so that we must learn from what happened there to make sure that this is not going to happen again, for what happens once can certainly happen again. The situation in the Rhines in which this project was conducted was very reversed. We all know who followed matters back then and then. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson handled it well earlier. Work is on the move, contracts are made, and, unfortunately, many persons, afterward, are going to think wrong. If we put another company in the picture and take a silicon out of parentheses for a moment, it can't be an independent case, a reason why people get into trouble with the progress of the case, that people in the area have enough to do everything at once. This cannot be done that way, for many large projects take a long time. Those who are working on such projects, putting money on them, and working to raise them, and so forth, must be able to trust that there is a link and stability in the system they work inside. I wanted to say that because this is a situation that can come up all over the country. I reiterate that there can be no argument that all of a sudden you have to do is because the tourist showed up and the mackerel swam into the weekend. Another thing I'd like to bring up is the debate that seemed to take over the big business in the country all over the country a few years ago, which was about production of aluminium that was terrible, but about everything else would be very good. I'd like to say it into this atmosphere, and in fact in my speech earlier today, I said that in Iceland we probably produce the most environmentally friendly aluminium in the world, upstairs on a suspect, on a charge and out in Straumsvík, and should be proud of it. Somehow, however, the debate began in the process of producing some of the good renewables and greens of our energy other than aluminium. I think we have to let this become a theory, i.e. That was where we worked in three places in the country that we knew well and had done well in most respects, but we suddenly found ourselves in a position where we could test anything other than what we knew. It is dangerous in itself. Like what? paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir tore this past year is the matter of the town administration of Smokeytown. If I understand the matter correctly, there is a suggestion for a domestic vote, and that, of course, is in the hands of the local people. But the rules of rules must be clear. Now we have new owners for this company. If they put in poignant plans for success so that all standards are met and all rules met, I don't think it's safe to leave those who say so now in a position that they can't put a hand in their heads. I think it's a good way to get it in the hands of the locals. There are programmes on how to achieve this if the factory is to be started again. Finally, I want to emphasize that the rules must be clear, and there must be some prefect that if a person follows the rules, he or she will be given a job to advance, but also if he violates all the rules that can be broken and presented wrong information, he will get a good record for that. Finally, I want to thank you for the discussion and continue to pay attention to the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u67	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. The Environment and Resource Minister for the review and also reiterate my gratitude to the question. Senators who requested the report we are discussing today. United Silicon's case is one continuous sad story; yet, it is, as the song says, that there is little evil to the point where there is no good at all. Now we have the opportunity to look at the contingency only, look at ourselves, and hopefully, I hope, Mr. President, will learn from the dire mistakes that are faced in this unprecedented case. I'm in the special position of living in the city of Rhinetown, so I know many sides of the case. At the outset, the silver plant presented its inhabitants as a great supply for a lark - stricken society following the military elimination and a severe crisis on the Southnes. Because of society's mismanagement, it can lead to the likelihood that humans have been more welcome to gilding. The situation also put tremendous pressure on jobs, money, business, and lucrative activities at that time. In this relationship, I would especially like to state that I do not doubt that the members of the community who were supporting the project did so in a good faith and who wanted their community well. But a friend is the one who says "wow." Now it is clear that the warning signs that initially blinked should soon have caused everyone to wonder if the community, the state, and really the community were being deceived. Because of the scope of the situation, I do not have time to review the exact factors in its role, but I would like to say that the Southnes are following this issue, and that humans would want to be very careful about major projects, and especially regarding the union that has taken over the swelling of United Silicon, Helga. By the way, I'd like to say that the citizens of the town of Smokenes were concerned about the factory's activities from the start. A lawsuit began at the construction of the building's contractors before the construction of the factory, and it became apparent immediately during the first days of production, which was soon to blow up quite seriously. As a resident, I hoped for the best, but I immediately had strong doubts about the nearby factory and the effects possible pollution could have on the health of the population. As soon as I began to question the qualifications of those who were in charge at United Silicon at the time, residents soon began to experience pollution caused by the factory. I had seen the smell of pollution that struck the town because of the production, so I watched a little more closely on the development of the project, and I attended a meeting with U.S. Silicon authorities and local authorities, as a large number of residents did back then. Yet, on August 29, 2017, a turning point was a turning point. That was when for the first time, I was seriously contaminated by the factory. I want to testify here, by permission of the president, in part of my moneybook transfer from that day forward, which says: ▪ Today on lunchtime, I had the unfortunate experience of being exposed to chemical contamination. Smokey Town smelled fire. When I was at the Canar Bridge in Chefavík, I entered a major cloud of pollution that caused a much less physical reaction when ammonia or similar matter is exposed to human intelligence. I was sick and oppressed, so I could see the most likely way to run into the next house. There I sat stunned for a while and wondered what had happened to me. I've found this smell they're talking about, which comes from the plant in Helga several times, but I've never found it as strong and as contaminated as today. At the end of the entry, I called upon the Council to appoint a research committee on United Silicon and found out how to build what seemed to be a ruined silica factory in the tuna in Smokenestown. The pollution from the factory had become unbearable, and at that point I had even more serious concerns about its effect on people's health and called it after the presence of my deputies. I'd like to make it very clear here that they didn't stand on at all. Into my moneybook, I associated with members of the territory. Perhaps it was one of many drops that filled the meter back then, but it was so hard. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, who responded to the call and requested the review of The Kingdom Accounting along with other members of Congress. That report came out in May. and is one full sentence against most players involved. I'd like to review some of the major issues that are facing this, which, in my opinion, seem to be a little out of the picture. Clearly, the information given to U Silicon's presidents at the time did not contain a stone, as well as their conflicting information to the National Institutes of Iceland and the Committee. According to a report published by the Reconnaissance, the rulers of the US Holding and United Silicon Holding have not been accurately identified as having a significant share in the project. Is the review of this report made to state that this information should have attracted the attention of the committee and that further examination should have been made. But it didn't work out. In fact, I have not yet received information as to who are the members of the 14 members. That information may be available, but I haven't found it yet. I think it's a big deal that the owners were in this tragedy. Their responsibility is great. Still, while the information has been at best questionable terms, the group gets an adverse deal with the State, something that doesn't happen every day. This development, in my opinion, made a significant impression on the rest. A report by the President's permission says: Then the government will make that promise in Article 11. The agreement to take all the necessary measures to ensure that the partner will receive all the rights and benefits that result from the contract and that no measures will be made which could adversely influence the implementation of the project or the activities of the society. That's a pretty big word, Mr. President. What does that even mean? There will be no measures that could adversely influence the performance of the project or the activities of the company? I think it's safe to state this point that at this time the union had not been granted permission from the workforce. It would not have been granted permanent permission from the EEA. Part of the project had been financed. So I wondered, " How did this barbarism deal affect the State? ' A group of pension funds participated in the financing of the project and suffered financial damage. At the main meeting of the Free Pension Fund held May 30th. it was shown in the President's case on the Government report, by permission of the president: When people consider how mismanagement took place in United Silicon, it is not impossible to look at the experience of industrial projects in Iceland. True, there have been disagreements over the years, but contracts and commitments have been fulfilled. That's why the next United Silicon is unique in its order. It has been suggested that the commercial history of the United Silicons had been undermined. However, there is no simple reference, for it was being covered by a set of documents that had the trust of international business partners and that had permission, certicates, and the number of public requests. Furthermore, a report asks whether the members and agencies entrusted in the process have fully met their responsibilities and responsibilities. I wondered if this discriminatory agreement gave the project more credible than it really deserved. The Free Pension Fund may invest in United Silicon about 1,200 million dollars. K. That's the money you lost. When we discuss the direct and indirect costs of the United Silicon mess, it is clear that direct financial damage to the Réjanestown project is substantial, running from billions to longer periods. Smoke trucks were in debt for years, but inside of them was, of course, funded for management and port fees for United Silicon. The dock situation is now very upset. The damage to society is a lot. United Silicon's pay was to be higher than in comparable jobs. Promises were made that were, in most cases, broken. In fact, deposit was not paid to the local community at baseline. They're lost to 200 million. K. This company did not even get paid when they were running out of pay. But do not forget that the United Silicon operation was stopped because of pollution. A report of the Re-examination of these factors is under way. I want to enter one of the factors that I've had a hard time understanding, which is about measurement and pollution. It is observed by a disease - control doctor that possible causes of the major pollution reported to people. It's kind of compatible with my own experiences. United Silicon made the assessment made by foreign people on pollution from the factory, and it revealed the following by permission of the president. Just at the end, I'll get to pee about in a foreign language: ▪ Over all the controversies of the lines around the end of the movie floats low. However, trixane, what is a polymerization program of formaldehyde, is preassigned in the stock woes of high-density conglomerations of formaldehyde This means that there could be pollution as an instrument and tools that were originally meant to be present never measured. It means, a respectable president, that information that came from the EEA and the company raised a series of reports that pollution was under the limits of emissions was unique because the instruments did not measure the correct pollution or species. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now I'm in the middle of time. [[The president calls.]] This is a big deal. [[The president calls.]] Let the United Silicon case become a theory. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u68	The president would like to remind members of the Parliament to give a talk lesson, as well as that it is permitted under the law of Congress that, just as the senator does, a foreign text is quoted. Then, too, he must render it word - for - word. The Senator knows now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u69	Mr. President. This situation has now been attributed quite well to many woes. Councilmen. I give special consideration to it as the last speaker, w. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, had to say and is not a reason to say anything more, although, of course, it may be discussed for a very long time. I'd rather go to just another gear, which is to consider in context the need for the structure in Helga and how it deals with environmental issues, climate issues, pollution questions, and social impacts. There has long been a great need for some kind of structure in the city of Rhines, as it has been attributed, and the aim for industrial cores in Helgavík is basically good. When it is decided to enter a silica plant of this kind, it is recorded that thousands of tons of carbon dioxide emissions, as mentioned, are within the range expected for a work permit for both carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, and other substances. It is of great interest, however, that no boundaries were placed on particulates and other substances that have a devastating effect. However, all who initially supported the structure and then changed their minds when it became clear how much pollution followed could be clear from the beginning to what was coming. It is a very well - known process that anyone can study. That, however, does not justify the smell. It can be said that the EEA has done very slowly on the case that is harmful, both for the pollution community and for the company awaiting a decision. Perhaps too many opportunities were given, and it is very natural and understandable anger that arises from communities when such conditions exist. No one wants to live in a cloud of pollution, especially with the physical ailments that are involved and have been traced. Perhaps the law was not sufficiently good, but, of course, all should have been understandable from the beginning. Silicon factories are generally less close to the human population, and there is a reason for this. This silica factory is a mile [ km] closer to human habitation than the factory I found an example of a foreign land, which is virtually man - made. There is a silica factory in Alabama, U.S.A., surrounded by trees, which help to catch particulates and pollution. There is no need to say that there are no trees in Helguvík. There's been a lot of mistakes here. The EEA did not provide a clear license that did not address important factors of pollution. It seems that the combined silicone set up inadequate cleaning equipment and that it has also been neglected to meet the challenges of business management, with consequences that we all know and that have been carefully reviewed. Finally, all communication between the company and the government with the general public in Smokejanestown was completely inadequate. The question is, How should such mistakes be handled in the future? You see, at times serious mistakes are made in good faith. I suggest we learn from the mistakes and demand of the company's operators who are involved in industrial processes that could have a contaminating effect on the environment, but also a greater requirement for the institutions to monitor it. The point is that we will discuss how industrialization is going to take place in the country. It's a requirement for building up, it's a matter of varied employment, and we're not always going to be able to choose the cleanest and finest methods. However, this allows for sulphur dioxide and carbon dioxide to be well used resources. Allowing companies to blow pollution into the air is insane. The opportunity to waste is being wasted at the same time as we all are being put at risk, and then I refer to a previous discussion about climate crisis. Also, it is very easy to stop air pollution on a plankton. It is within the bounds of reason to continue to develop the manufacturing industry in Helga and beyond, but we must do what is tolerated by society, which nature tolerates, and remains in the way that the valuables that come into existence in the process are as high as they should be. We must not continue on the trip we have been on with the aluminium industry and further so far, that Iceland will become some sort of original cleaning plant for aluminium and silica, and other materials without continuing value production beyond the value chain. When it is taking care of its impact in the economy that Iceland has become a source country, I think we need to learn some lessons permanently. One thing is to be much harder on all environmental policies and not allow companies to start business, even in experimental ways, until the procedures they use for cleaning waste, whether in the atmosphere or in any other way, are sufficiently established. One is that before going into such a business or even building such a business, it is clear in a clear way that everyone in the community knows what they're doing and what they're doing. Of course, we also need to focus on building a more valuable manufacturing industry and not always hanging in the product. We should do much better to use the force that we produce in Iceland, to use the intelligence that exists, and to produce anything more valuable in the world than to clean silicone. Even if it is a useful and important product, would it not be better for us to move out the sunlight than a pure silicone? I think that's the solution we have to take. It does not pay to continue a measure of pollution at the expense of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u70	Mr. President. Thank you for the discussion and thank you for the report we're discussing here. It is to answer a few questions not only about the implementation of the factory's Marketing Authorisation but also the future of a process and a detailed analysis of the follow-up and its review, as well as the costs of the State and other predictable costs of environmental pollution from the work. In the beginning, I want to remember that it is important that the government and the government learn from this terrible story that has no precedent in this country. The members of the United States, as well as those listed here, have covered various aspects of this report. I'd like to approach this matter in a different way and consider it in a more historical light. A report from the year 2000 says that a professional situation in Southnes is at best and has not been better in the previous eight years. Six years later, in 2006, news reports mainly show that the military is going to that year and also say that the matter is political. A few years later, or 2013, report says that there has been a reduced population in the area since 2009 and that the major problems are unemployment, as is the case with others at that time. Army departures came upon the inhabitants of the land, something they should not have done at all. Part of the problem created by military departure is government complacency, i.e. saw that the departure was long before the Army left for good. There had been plans for years and even since the Cold War ended. A professional situation in Southnes was below and small or was not taken in time. As a result, when unemployment increased dramatically during the military journey, panic became so widespread and long - lasting that the possibility of making mistakes on the part of the government was invited home. At that time, of course, there was an immediate talk about the big business in the area. As soon as unemployment followed military departure, there was talk of industry in the area. Everybody race each other. News of those years was all one way, the big business was to solve local employment problems, and everything was under way. Everything was tented, both by the government, by the politicians, and by the local communities. Of course, there was an interest in the metropolitan industry, such as in many other areas, and it had been for years, but the expectations of the population were great and disappointing because it was so much greater because it was so bad. From this, I believe that we can learn an important lesson that we should, of course, do. It is also clear that the factory's activities had a high standard in many of the institutions involved, both local, rural, and governmental institutions. There they were dealing with a project they had not been able to meet before, at least not how big and how big it was. I hope we learn from this adventure that I want to call so much, too, in the field of legislatures. And it's where we come from at the Council of Justice, from which we must learn. Thanks to the increase in tourism, professional conditions on the Southnes are generally good. I don't know where we were going with this factory or anyone else if there was a similar situation in the Southnes today and after the military leaving in 2006. For example, when this is the case, people resort to a number of extreme measures, even to set off smoke - contaminated factories without even hiking at all. Hv. paritaprevir Harðardóttir Hardydirdóttir called the job a delight. It is important to learn from the bitter experience there was. What position is now in the area? The situation is different today. Today, there is a high level of employment in the area, especially in connection with and regarding the tourist currents and the airport. How does it view governments? The local infrastructure is far behind the population and the need for Southnes. This has turned completely around. Health services require more money from the state. The colleges call for more money from the state. They don't have the demand. The law calls for more funding. Today, governments are far behind. If we turn this diell only, the reverse is now in line with the situation in 2006. We're way behind. What happened then was that the politicians were freaking out. And what's happening right now is that politicians don't do this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u71	Madam President. We're here to discuss a series of mistakes. I'd like to state that since the collapse of the factory we're discussing here, the government has responded correctly. I want to discuss the factory myself. Not only was it incomplete but it was a system of devices and the operating system was not enough. It was like a bastard who would never really be functional. I'd like to remind you of the lack of knowledge in the work of some employees, it became apparent, and a constant disturbance in production itself due to a faulty manufacturing process. Then the defects in the smoke filter and the smoke prevention. All of this helps us to see that it is not enough to monitor the construction process itself but, rather, it must be the technical design of the local organisation when building such a factory. There's a lesson. I'd like to discuss the pollution and remind you what we're talking about. This does not refer to carbon dioxide, the greenhouse gas, which is the main component of the release from United Silicon, which is bad enough as a greenhouse gas, but rather to other gases such as sulphur dioxide, such as nitrogen oxides. It's not much of a release, but it's none. It refers to the dust, and it refers to heavy metals and, most important, all the organic pollutants we call PAH, and it's the smell and smoke. It is an imperfect furnace burn. It's the barbecue smoke that everyone knows what's uncomfortable with breathing. That's what was the main complaint. Then, when we looked at the report on the report presented, it was very corrupt. Of course, it is only possible to have a new estimate of the environmental impact of action, at least In this respect and even in another way. I'd also like to talk about what's going on. After closing the factory to the EEA's claim and then to the bankruptcy that has followed, an effort has been made by Aion banks or Stapbergs, as the company calls, to review the factory and manufacturing process all, Norwegian persons have tried, and the prices are rewarded by a number of billions of dollars. Then you're going to try to bring the factory back to life. Then you ask: "If the investors are able to buy the body, which may be the case. " If I have no expertise to appreciate it, then the question is, Do I want to bring the body back to life so that the factory will start? Is that what people want? Do we want that, and the government wants it? This has not been very clear unless it is true of individuals. I also want to discuss the problems of organizational matters that are obvious. The building is too high on the original basis. It was a mistake. The building is also too close to a settlement that was allowed to develop too close to the Helguvík region, and this must also be considered a mistake. It's built there somewhere between a mile and a half miles from the factory. I want to talk about the next step too. Of course, it is obvious, as noted earlier, that the local and organizational domain of Smokejanes has rejected Smackberg's request to take a structure and assessment description for the treatment and, therefore, perhaps opening up the silencing term for the future of the plant. I think that's a positive idea. I'm not gonna say anything. I'm counting until further notice, at least for now, that the silicar United Silicon does not resume. Instead, search for building in Helguvík, which is primarily environmentally friendly and suitable for the population as well as for the harbor.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u72	Madam President. I think we should start by thanking you for this fine discussion that is in the Hall of Congress on this disaster that the Helga project is in all places when you see it, not only when the conclusion of the News Review is in progress, and we're discussing it, but also how it was done right from the beginning. I've found that in the conversation I'd like to call certain coercion of this, in fact, under the premise that the plight of a naked woman teaches to spin, or how we can put it, that when there's a lot of business involved in individual areas, the rules of how we're building up are of little importance. It must never be. You must never forget, such as. The warnings that we received after the collapse, how to act, in complacency, indiscretion, and how we ignored the warning about what was coming. The same is true in this regard, of course, that we may not be able to ignore the guidelines we have decided to work after much time has gone by. This will be especially in those circumstances when a great deal of pressure is being carried out to be taken care of. And as the result of that assignment was certainly worse than at home. We are left with a factory that is not active, which does not meet its requirements, and we are not sure if it will start again or not. This project may be based on a vivid description of what governments are not supposed to do, that is to interfere with the type of structure or precise operation being carried out. I think this is exactly the case with the Helgi Project. It was clear, and it was already in progress when the Helguví project was initiated at the start of another project, i.e. A building at Helgavík, a building that was competing with the other electronic projects that were of limited dose. It will be no better when you look at the whole matter and all the coverage that has been discussed, than that governments at that time were progressively used to break up the former ones, so that the two plants would get first in the structure, if they were to get ahead of themselves. Now, I'm not going to decide if it would have been better, but it's odd when you look at the environmental effects of these two projects and you see the simple fact that a silica plant releases about 10 times that of an aluminium per ton. There is certainly a special priority on the environmental issues. But once again, that may not be what matters. My opinion on what would have been suitable or right doesn't matter in politics. It's just the lesson because it's not our politicians to walk in the way this was done. It is not for us to say: " We want this work more than anything else. ' We are to create clear, general, and practical guidelines for the careers to follow, but then we are going to try to divide as little as possible the tasks that depend on the rules and requirements we make. I think all the boundaries were out there, and all protocols were ignored, especially by governments themselves, as this fine report shows so well. I think it may be a warning to us for the future that we will not repeat this and not forget about it. We'll set the rules. We define the requirements, but what professions will then be chosen to follow that principle is for others to decide. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u73	Madam President. Clearly, this assignment was under way out of ignorance, and society was not prepared for it. This process shows that there is still a sense of clear policy when it comes to the development of industrial and electrical efficiency in Iceland. What do we want to use our electricity for? What type of industry do we want to build? Where do we want to build it up? How does he affect the environment? How does he affect society? Then I remind you we have to deal with decisions because the reality is that once everything's under control, it's hard to cancel. Sadly, all the willingness that took place there affected all of us, but most of all, the people who suffered severe discomfort or even health problems suffered. It is easy to stand below and judge, especially if the decisions about this building were taken just after a collapse, but that does not excuse them. We must wonder if no one ever thought: " Is this a good idea? Was there no one who thought, " Is it clever to put two silicas and aluminiums next to the combustion of garbage, and the melting of flour, the stones from a large international airport, and just a mile from a town that constantly floats? ' Or: The factory has not been designed, we do not know who own it or control it, and the electricity has not even been guaranteed. Maybe we just need to stop for a second. Of course, there were some who thought that way and even made comments, but unfortunately, it seems that the warnings given were not heard, as a government review points out in their report. It is a beautiful idea to use our pure energy to create what is needed in order to use another pure energy resource. On this basis I understand that the project was of interest, but unfortunately it seems that one company has managed to take that good idea and destroy it simply by ignorance, dishonesty, and accedency. Of course, as a community, we will never be able to resist such dishonesty, but we must do better. It is clear from the National Review Report that both crazy things during the application procedure that should have called bells, but it also seems that many promises have not been carried out, such as. that both manufacturing and cleaning materials would be of the latest and best type, using the best available technology for production. It will be presented in the President's report, with the permission of a president: The joint body volume was not finished when it was started and was not equipped to work in accordance with the assessment of environmental impact, published work permit, and the aims aimed at according to the fair agreement. This is followed by a very important recommendation from the Government Review: The Agency then feels that the Environment and Resource Ministry is required to investigate in cooperation with the EEA and other governments whether there is a greater or increased demand for the publication of the work programme for activities that may result in contamination. It is important that the professional, technical and financial abilities of candidates be assessed in relation to the conditions they are expected to meet according to the law and license of the applicant. The report also shows that these institutions have learned some lesson from the process and have changed their ways, even though they still need to do so. In this context, I would like to remind you that carbon production is essentially very complex and difficult to deal with. But we have examples of how to do things well, such as. In Norway. The fact is, though, that back then there was no knowledge of this manufacturing process in Iceland. Thus, it might also be asked whether it was desirable to obtain knowledge and experience beyond the rocks, to consult foreign experts. Although Iceland and I know everything best, the only thing we know is if the new industry is to be built up with the best possible knowledge, especially when dealing with contaminated industry, such as in this case. The result of the Re-examination is, with permission of the President: ▪ It is important that governments involved in these factors can make sure that those seeking to operate in the polluted industry have the power to meet the requirements set out in law. There, I would like to stress the importance of the government's institutions, which will make sure that they are safe. A recent case related to a decision fell on the environmental assessment of fish farms. More than once, it was noted that the agencies that are partly the same organisations involved in this matter and that they should monitor performance and management believe that they do not have the resources to do so because of lack of financing. Sadly, the same problem exists in the rural areas, according to these reports, many of which simply do not have the ability to carry out their duties properly with construction and construction practices. But there are also no acceptable circumstances for investment, nor is it likely to build the industry, nor is it an acceptable situation for citizens in this country or nature. Both, i.e. The situation with regard to organisations, the government and the council, which provide funding for the institutions and to the rural communities, although more indirectly. This is a lesson, therefore, that a body of Congress must also take to heart, and it is an opportunity to look at it in the initiative we are currently in that the ministry and agencies that allow and monitor them have the opportunity to carry out their legal assignments and thus reduce the possibility of human error. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I reiterate the importance of our quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u74	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this important discussion and the request. Here, for example, there are a number of issues to discuss. I'd like to discuss this with a general friend. It matters how we view these things in general so that the structure of our society can function properly, that it is based on sound data, and in a clear way that informed decisions can be made when we decide how to obtain employment, how we want to distribute the land we have available, and how we want to build up the activities in our society. It is very important for the rural population that they have all the data and information to evaluate each aspect without having expertise in each type of industry. This must also know and have all these data available to control its control and advice and decision-making right from now on. Also important is the job life that wants to make use of the opportunities and make valuables, both for business to go and for economic growth in the country. They must have some vision and be able to build themselves up without endless suspicion and to be placed at the front of the door for no reason. It is also important for the job life that companies, as in this case, do not act out by fraud and fraud. It puts everyone else in a worse position, including those who are in direct competition, if some have to follow the rules and others don't, and it will also make it even harder and harder for those who have everything to do with their business and start their business if that happens. I think what everyone can take out of this matter is a lesson. I've been celebrating it, and that's a lot to discuss in this discussion. All will learn from this matter, and it will only help us to see where we need to strengthen ourselves. I believe that it is a prerequisite to determine which basic information governments, societies and jobs need to unite in order to be used. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Environment and Transport Committee received a glimpse in the Weather Room this morning when we went to visit them. It contains, for example, in one institution full of basic information that can be used in so many ways, e.g. for rural development and their decision-making and for nature protection to determine how to interact with our country, and for us, the government, to find out what resources we have. We need this information for the flight, how to manage and reduce fuel consumption, and for the activations and everything. These are basic weather data, sea level, moisture and water fields. You can count that kind of information only in one case. Other studies involving the use of food and such are also available by Matis. There is also a wealth of such information in the Institute of Natural Science. We need to understand how we can progressively gather these information, making it possible for governments to have a powerful database and a powerful system that can already come together with such questions as how this kind of activity affects society and how it will affect nature, what it will have to do with society and nature in the place where it is at which it will live. I'm not going to say it's best to combine some institutions and make a single mask out of the stuff that handles all of this, but I want to make sure that everyone works together, that the conversation is active, that all is efficient. We need to make the best use of all the sources we have, so that not everyone is working in his own corner and in each other's direction. As noted many times, all were doing their best and based on the information they had at their time. But there were a number of people who escaped through the needle's eye when these functions started. Then I refer to my own rural society, which did not keep close enough with elected representatives, including government planning agencies, environmental fields, construction fields, and forward figures. I'm also talking about the investors, the ones who put their money in this. It may be those who always carry the prime responsibility in the past. Our project and equipment were no more powerful than the factory's stopping today. Well, let's thank you for that. This was true in spite of much investment and great interests, yet it was possible to stop when we saw how everything was going on. Who are they responsible for this and who are stuck with black people today? It's the investors. I think it really matters that it happens here. We must be able to build trust so that people will be more comfortable with the decisions they make. That's what we need to start working on now, what we need to use this report and this position in, i.e. To see how we build trust, people can know that we have the information we need to make those decisions. Whether we look at it or not, the lack of trust will be high and there is always a way we can answer it, so that we don't know something, that the evidence is not there. We need to make sure the data is in place. It is not enough to sow doubts and distrust, be suspicious, and say: All questions must be answered. We also need to answer how we are going to have our system so that it answers the questions, so that not everything is stopped. I think it's our responsibility as a lawgiver to figure it out and to have a conversation with the European Commission on how we can strengthen these basic information, how we can strengthen this process so that it will be beneficial and that it will become as much information as possible to be done in the most transparent and reliable way without it taking countless time and we'll go out at high costs. A lot of the information I've been talking about repeatedly, which is useful in so many ways, is also helpful to governments, business and rural society. The information is useful in so many ways, although we always look at it as information, such as. ... aboutallthewaterfields. Many see what only the information they need. This information is being collected. They are important in so many ways. This is what we live in the protection of nature or in the solar system or other industry that wants to come in later. This is also of great benefit during a global surveillance operation. Much of the information that Land induction has done or worked on them has benefited us greatly in public security, risk assessment, and organization. This information is of great value. I'd also like to point out that Icelandic scientists and university society have been extremely powerful at getting foreign partners and from a foreign point of view to sharing in this with us. That's why I think it's very important to start this job. That's two cents for every dollar, I think, as we invest in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u75	V.E.G. President. I want to like others to thank for the discussions that have been presented here on this report. It is very important that when such important things get out of the way they are made up clearly and that they try to learn from it. Perhaps there is not much to add to the discussion that has been conducted here today, but I take advantage of a few points of opportunity. Of course, it is evident that these functions were started very quickly and that they were able to begin very quickly. It has been observed here that in the leading of this situation, there was a condition in the Southern community that people wanted to react to, but it does not justify human superiority, and it does not justify a person's having something on the sand that truly needs a more solid foundation. We've also heard here and seen in the media and elsewhere that there's a lawsuit going on. There are accusations of fraud and fraud that, of course, must be resolved by established methods. What's interesting about history and what we need to learn from it is, of course, a lot to learn from. not to be overlooked, must not be run so quickly by any task that warnings, fences, or such factors are pushed out of the way of success. It's been pretty much over here today. But at the same time, I'm going to underline it, if anyone sees this as an opportunity, then tightens the law and the rules, or then hardens the procedures that investers have to go through that they don't see their benefit in it, or they're going to make money in Iceland. I don't think it's necessary. I think there is more need for us to respect and use the processes we have today rather than, if anyone sees this as an opportunity to tighten everything that can be hard pressed. Many people find it difficult to invest or do something in Iceland today. It is important that this matter be resolved and that a decision will be made whether this factory will be restarted, whether it will be torn and sold, or what will happen. Of course, in this process everything must be kept on the subject and people's will must be respected as well. At the same time, we need to ask ourselves, " Is this technology, or business, in some other place where my business can be used properly? ' I reiterate what I said before, we must respect the will of the people who have been very clear about this matter. It is important to keep our eyes on, whether these or others, in the long run. It is important to keep our eyes open for a long time when we make things up. Learning is not enough. We must also try to anticipate the consequences of learning. We must be careful not to make such an arrangement that the society involved will be weaker or worse. We have to try to see the bigger picture. Here it referred to the Þorsteinn Víglundsson as "the changing of the times " or of the community as the start of this business. Everyone had painted black-colored aluminium, so to speak, it was something ugly, it was not to be spoken of. It was not just politicians who declared the evilness of aluminum literature. I'm saying I don't agree with that. Aluminium isn't bad, they're much better in Iceland than in many other places. It was also those who sold energy, the energy dealers themselves had set standards, or their goal, to try to get their energy into something that they considered greener even, which was more popular. As a result, in many ways it was difficult to carry on with the ideas that existed in ancient Rome. Whether it is a power dealer or a politician, we must not be controlled by the discussion, by the emotions or by the populum. V.E.G. President. Iceland has grown to have energy as many as it has been, and we must, of course, make the most of it. But I think and I'm going to share it here in the end, a respectable president, that whether it's for the people of Smokejanes or any other country, we should, of course, use the energy we have in Iceland for good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u76	A respectable president. This case is one sad story from beginning to end, or perhaps I cannot tell the end, for it is not yet over. This is the history of a community in financial problems and how the problem actually leads to this task, which is taken up for very immutable reasons. There was something to be arranged, it was just arranged, not with an aluminium, but with an iceberg, although there were other factors to be considered, there was no need for necessarily to go into aluminium production or whatever else, since, as I brought up the subject yesterday, the motivation of rural development is very limited. It helps rural society to work on the income that is predictable and reliable to watch the number of people paying out or the number of square meters that either live in or host a job. These narrow income options are based on rural development. As a result, when it comes to building jobs for rural society, it is done on these grounds. More people who pay income taxes or a lot of square feet, usually in a major industry, which is an instant delay in the financial affairs of rural society. There are a number of examples of this in many parts of the country, such a solution has been used to provide the employment situation in rural society instead of going into a much more varied work structure that will not go away when one company decides to go somewhere else. Or, as in this case, when the army leaves, and in other parts of the country. At the time of the decision on this activity, many were very aware and should have been more aware that the environmental impact of such activities is something we should have taken seriously. We should have taken it much serious, but for some reason there was a very great lack of such environmental awareness in the national industry. It's, for example. make up a decision on the construction of the Back. It was an assignment similar to that carried out with all the prehistory based on the United Siliconi, of all the mistakes made there. We are simply trapped in this limited range by a square meter and an appeal number when it comes to working anywhere but in the capital region because our rural communities are not allowed to share in the expansion of the company's income tax or expansive tax from the services and resources that exist and exist in the countryside. If such an answer were to be made by a greater range of jobs than the one on a square foot [3 mm], often for industry, would be much more motivated, there would be much greater options available for rural society to choose what kind of activity they would like to have in their community. We would not usually end up with such contaminating benefits but with much more varied and highly paid functions than we are now receiving. We do not receive compliments about possible high-paying jobs in contaminated industry, but we can actually get more paid jobs in the industry that have been shown to be effective, e.g. In a mind-work industry or anything like that. This has been clear for a lot of years, since the Montreal convention was done around 1990, maybe a little earlier. The agreement was to place restrictions on ozone depletion, and at the same time, efforts were made to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as well. Unfortunately, people did not see as much danger in greenhouse gases as they saw in the depletion of ozone. It wasn't much of an imminent danger, cancer, etc., panic disorder. So for some reason, greenhouse gases could not be inserted there. From that point on, we should have thought much more about environmental matters than we did, and we see the consequences of ignoring the warning bells that began then and up until our arrival. [[The president calls.]] It's still biting us in the ass.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u77	Mr. President. Again and again, I want to thank you for an interesting discussion in which members of the Parliament have covered the field of the joint silicone and factory activities. In my first talk, I put the lead in the development of the factory in a historical light. So I learned that circumstances in the area, including the leaving of the 2006 Army and unemployment, followed by the long - term political cry for the construction of industry in the region, would have created circumstances for rash action that sometimes, and often, lead to failure. Mr. President. However, after all that difficult journey, I cannot avoid giving commendation to local residents, for the expectations they had been built were great, not just for more jobs, but for well - paying jobs. So the disappointments were awe - inspiring to see how the inhabitants have coped with all the disappointments. When expectations were high, and each post - post - traumatic event struck over the linking of the production, operations, and management of the factory, the inhabitants of Southnes remained calm. Thus, in view of experience, the demands to the government that they do not allow the implementation of contaminated industry without careful consideration and preparation. Mr. President. Today, the same people who witnessed a high unemployment rate 12 years ago after the military departure and even more after collapse live under the opposition of the government in a new and completely different area. The population growth in southernnes is without any precedent in this country, so Southnes are calling for a faster development in health - care infrastructure, in school, in police fields, in public transport, to name just a few. The inhabitants of Southnes call for structure in areas that could then be more in harmony with the vast and unprecedented population growth, but they meet a low understanding of the government. At the end, I want to agree with the words of many woes. Councilmen who have spoken today about the subject: We must learn from this matter, and that in more ways than one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u78	A respectable president. This has been an interesting, well - discussed subject and should be thanked for it. I've found it interesting to watch how you do it. This matter has been handled by the General. I don't think there's anyone's angle if I give special commendation. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, who has been very busy asking for the reports under which we are reporting, both the Government Accounting and this report that we now discuss. Last year, an open meeting was held at the %s. The Environment and Transport Committee I've requested as a representative of this committee. It was quite interesting to see how that meeting took place. There was a great agreement among members of Congress to get to the bottom of the matter, and many representatives came to a number of stakeholders at the meeting, representatives of the people, the company, and various institutions. I conclude from the way the council handled the situation after we learned that we can learn a lot from it, and hopefully we won't have to do that melancholy thing very often. But it is good to know that we can deal with such major issues. There have been reports here that there is no need to double, or tri or four, or even a five - part in my speech, but it may be good to reevaluate a little bit, just the pressure on the project there, not just on this project in Helga, but on any project. We who followed the discussion will be exorbitant advertising and articles against the world's highest level. Environment Minister, Svavarsdóttir, because she felt somehow opposed to development in this industrial region. It turns out it wasn't like that, but things were just not ready, then I'm talking about building in the general area, not especially this factory here. The lesson we can draw from this is that we should settle down and work hard before going to them. We should not let the pressure lead us, and the only big answer to save everything is often and often not the correct answer. V.E.G. The minister of the environment, in his speech, discussed some of the lessons that we included. Subtracted from this, although it is not just of this issue, regarding what lies ahead in review of environmental impact assessments. I'm glad you're here. I think it's very important to take a seat in that matter and explain things better and make them better. V.E.G. The government has also set up, so I'll take this case a little wider because I want to learn a lesson from it in all areas, a committee that's working on energy policy. This has something to do with it, too. This has to do with the thought that has been in this community for way too long to link the unique performance of energy forces. I've spoken well of the issues, the energy policies we want to see for a long time and to reach. This energy policy will be primarily out of green emphasis, how we can live up to our commitments when we come up with climate issues and build up green and good society. To accomplish this, big users should not be on top of the list. I've been thinking that maybe we should just take a break in supplying energy to big users no matter where they are and what they are while we work this energy policy, because all these issues are connected, and it's good to see how far government lessons are coming from this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u79	V.E.G. President. As we can see from the reading of the published reports on the joint silicone, it was very important to take this matter into consideration, and I would like to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son and those members of the council who called for a report from a minister for that initiative. Especially was it important, though, to have a government reexamination of the work. At the same time, I would like to thank the members of the council for the talks that have been very good today. I think it's clear that this factory will only be reassigned with considerable changes, as indicated by the closing statement of my report to the Council. It is important to learn from the experience that has developed with all contaminated activities, both of which are important. We must constantly look for ways to improve, learn from experience, and keep past mistakes from repeating ourselves. The EEA already has a new experience in publishing PCC on Back, which is positive. It is already beginning to make up for the limitations of what the National Accounting Research has pointed out, and I will follow through on that matter. But we can learn more. We need a community like that. to stop identifying contaminated activities in the vicinity of the area, as was the case, as there are ideas around the country, e.g. A geothermal power plant in the Bearsfjaw in the Mine Lake Force. Of course, the most important thing for us is to disappear from further pollution of the land. Thank you so much for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u80	The arrangement has been agreed on. The minister has 10 minutes to history and two minutes after the discussion. This is then divided between members of Congress: Group 13 minutes, Central Party 13 minutes, Independence Party 20 minutes, Piratar 13 minutes, Special Forces 14 minutes, Group 11 minutes, Reconvene 11 minutes, Left Company 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u81	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for being on schedule for this case. This is my report on mental health and the implementation of a mental - health program laid before the Council of 148th, the Department of Counseling at 2017 -2018. Awareness in the community is a mental - health disorder that is reflected in the context of the article. in the government covenant. Governments and the public want to put the matter of mental health first. The aim of this report is to provide a perspective on mental health status in Iceland so that we can see where we are, the major challenges we face, and thus gain a clearer view of where we are headed. The report examines mental - health and prevention, the organization of services, and the access to practical treatment. Emphasis is placed on opportunities for improvement and plans for the next steps to improve national mental health and mental health. I emphasize that mental health disorders are among the basic options of health care. People who have good mental well - being, which enables them to gain their talents, enjoy their careers, reach their personal goals, actively participate in society, and deal upbuildingly with the pressures that inevitably come with life. One of the greatest health problems today is mental health problems. The World Health Organization estimates that after two years mental health problems will be 15% of the world's health problems. One person in four suffers from mental health problems throughout his life. Psychiatric disorders appear early, with about half of mental disorders occurring during adolescence and 75% of mental disorders occurring in their mid - 20's. It is a major factor in the economic burden of nations, and this burden is thought to be increasing. We may as a nation. Not well - informed about the nature of a mental - health professional. I call attention to the broadness of the character of this group of litigators. Most people are familiar with common disorders such as anxiety or depression, but with mental health problems, there are also as different disorders and developmental abnormalities, the alzheimer's disease, as well as other brain failures, sleep disorders, and addictions. Mental health may range from serious mental illness that lasts for a lifetime to mild symptoms that do not significantly interfere with daily life, but people may temporarily need support to cover. Mental - health issues are a wide variety of subjects with the uniqueness of having touched most aspects of human life. Mental health affects the quality of life of individuals and their families as well as the community in general. In recent decades, mental - health developments have taken place. The human rights and authority of users are focused on a modern mental - health speech. Increased emphasis is on user-centered service in the surrounding environment and on reducing localisation. These are progressive steps. Also important is the development of emphasis on the right to mental - health services that have been shown scientificly to produce results. In particular, I want to emphasize that some of the most important understandings that have been achieved in this category in recent years is that national spirituality is not primarily a matter of health care but, above all, of a powerful educational system, social services, judicial systems, employment, transportation, and organization. We need to work together. A respectable president. For a long time, it is important to maintain mental health at once in childhood with mental status, prevention, and benefit from the use of benefit - tested treatment as soon as possible. It is important to remember that a certain level of skills and knowledge, such as knowledge of one's own emotions, the ability to deal with them, the knowledge of one's own strengths and weaknesses, and the ability to make good use of them. I make it clear that such knowledge and skill can be taught and the responsibility of society is in order to bring children who grow up in Iceland to a man with this ability in the books. An important element of the policy and mental status measures is to monitor the status and development of key national status. In addition to regular monitoring of health and well-being factors, the surgeon's work of doing extensive research on health and well-being. This information includes: new in the publication of public health messages, which are part of a review of the state's well-being and well-being. This makes it easier for rural society to understand the needs of its inhabitants so that they can work progressively to improve their health and well - being. In addition, surgeons and local communities also conducted psychoactive activities at national level, including the U.S.A. through health societies and play, basal and high school. Thus, rural areas are in a key position to create an environment that contributes to the better mental health and well - being of the population of all ages. Now, I would like to briefly intervene in a number of key elements and measures related to mental health. There is a policy on alcohol and alcohol prevention until 2020 and there is a strategy to implement this policy. Its goal is that an Icelandic society is characterized by a healthy environment in which an individual is not endangered by alcohol or other drugs. Among other measures, alcohol and other drug sources should be limited, protecting vulnerable groups from the harmful effects of alcohol and other drug sources, promoting preventive measures to prevent alcohol and drug abuse, reducing the number of those who develop harmful patterns, ensuring continuous and integrated access to drug - based services, and reducing the number of deaths due to addiction. Preservation has been effective in Iceland, for in recent years youths have greatly reduced their use of alcohol and drugs, but Iceland uses more of certain drugs that can cause addiction than most other countries do. In May. A team of workers returned a report on ways to correct the use of addictive and addictive substances and are being processed in the Ministry. Drug abuse disposal has proved to be a well - tested worldwide, with fewer deaths and fewer infections and blood disorders due to the use of contaminated clothing. In the city and the Red Cross of Iceland, there is a work to set up a lot of consumption space for drug users in foreign ways. Public health policies since 2016 give special attention to children and young people up to 18 years of age. Its primary objective is that Iceland will become one of the world's most healthy people in 2030, focusing on prevention and overall approach, including cooperation with schools and communities It is suggested that all rural society will become healthy communities, including preschools, elementary schools, high schools and workplaces, and that targeted prevention will be carried out in the field of parenting and education, nutrition, motor activity, mental development, dental, and alcohol and tobacco protection. A four - year mental - health policy was adopted at the General Assembly in 2016. The primary objective of mental - health policy is to promote an increased level of well - being and better mental health for all the people in the country and that mental - health individuals are more active in the community. It is emphasized that services to mental - health individuals are professional, integrated, and consistent. Many good actions are described in the mental - health movement and are being carried out. For example, there has been an increasing number of psychologists at health clinics all over the country, and mental - health teams have been set up. Also, there are measures aimed at reducing prejudice and discrimination on the basis of mental health. In Iceland alone, some 40 people are killed each year, and there are more than those who pretend to be caused by traffic accidents. The suicide reduction programme has a number of goals aimed at promoting the mental health of people in general and reducing the risk of suicide. Especially are those considered to be high - risk groups, including queer youths and those who have attempted suicide in the past. The budget has been provided to implement projects proposed for the effectiveness programme to reduce the number of suicides in Iceland. A respectable president. Despite many positive steps to improve mental health in Iceland, we face a number of challenges. More lines are missing in school gymnasiums. There is a lack of a complete framework of prevention and early intervention in line with step - exchange support in school work. In a teacher's education, education lacks instruction on well - chosen measures to promote behaviour, social and emotional abilities of children and young people, and there is a lack of resources for children with educational, behaviour and emotional problems. The availability and access of resources for children and adults with mental health problems, as well as for families, vary from country to country. Most measures are available in the capital area where the crowds are greatest. Mental - health services are being provided throughout the country, but there is a shortage of specialized health - care services in many countries. I highlight the use of technology in this regard so that the services of experts in many parts of the country can be ensured. Then it is important to ensure that there is a sharing in service and to increase a multidisciplinary team. The services and cooperation of the service provider are lacking, and there is great opportunity to plan the ministry better so that users can be clear of the options and options they are offered. In an organization of service, it is important to focus on meeting individual needs and ensuring effective treatment options at appropriate services, as well as in the context and follow-up of treatment. Part of it is to clarify the role of the service provider and how cooperation should be performed between service stairs and services. We need to improve the cooperation of service employers and service workers and make sure that this cooperation is made more visible. A respectable president. The nation's mental health is the responsibility of all of us. We now face extraordinary opportunities for mental - health advancement. A discussion in this field must be based on the basic requirement for human rights, general standards, and health care matters at all levels of health care and health care. This includes respect for people and their right to informed participation and freedom of choice in their own treatment. To enable people to make informed decisions about their own treatment, they need to have access to information on effective therapeutic procedures based on scientific tested methods. In the future, education, social services, judicial systems, transportation, planning, employment, and health services must work together to promote a healthy society guided by human rights. It must be explained who does what and in what way we work together toward our common goals, motivations must be involved in solving meaningful cooperation. We all need to come together as a strong and human society, protecting our mental health and our children for a better future for Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u82	A respectable president. We will discuss a report on mental health care and the implementation of a mental - health program adopted at the Great General Assembly in April 2016. The report is available, in legible language, informative, and inexpensive, thanks to the highest value. Minister for her. I'll run here on a few things, but time is a real challenge. As mentioned in the case of the highest. One of the greatest health problems today is a minister who is mentally ill. Mental - health issues are unique, these are a vast group of subjects that affect in one way or another most aspects of human life. Thus, the problem with mental health problems is not just the person involved, not just the person's spiritual well - being and the side of the matter, it quickly breaks down physical health, social interaction, friends'groups, study, and employment. This affects all individual and family life as well as the community in general. Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, the width of the mental health problem and the approach of the problem and treatment call for expertise, tenderness, and great training to identify solutions. Mental health problems include Disorders such as anxiety, depression, developmental disorders, addictions, and things that go from old age to old age, often called dementia, and so serious disorders. The mental problems of individuals are always evident early. According to the report, 50 percent of mental disorders have developed into adolescence and 75% are disturbed when a person is in his mid - 20's. In our diverse world and often a complex existence, many people face setbacks and challenges, problems with spiritual distress, or health problems because of various traumas or pressures. Thus, at some point in life, one in four struggles with mental illness. The report points to the interpretation in various subjects, including for acts against prejudice and discrimination against those who have had or have had mental health problems, for those people often have a recession in the community, have a reputation, and even mistakenly believed that people who have ever had mental illness have no hope of recovery and are given up the disease. So it is important to take decisive action against such prejudice and discrimination. It is encouraged that countries and rural communities will follow through with fine examples and with the advice of people outside the workforce for their long - term emotional work at the hands of their institutions. My experience is that most managers have a positive view of opportunities like this. However, the infrastructure of public institutions is now so weak after many thin years that capital, knowledge, and education are lacking - but not the will. An operation plan in this subject exists, but do not operate on it. I hope it becomes the first and can't be delayed. Mr. President. The rural communities are in a key position to promote the health of the common people. They have carried out some of the services and activities involved in daily life, including the field ministry and activity that attracts people to the day - to - day life of their lives. factors of great importance to the mental health of many of the most sensitive groups, young people. These include elementary school, social services, child care, housing and employment, transportation and organization. Of course, there is an example of rural society, which has started very good projects in this area and has become closer to me, but there are many more of these. The importance of having a clear understanding of risk factors for mental health and what can be done to protect and promote mental health in society is never too often stressed. There, for example, there are progressive preventive measures and overall resources as soon as difficulties are experienced. In line with the approach of the World Health Organization, an official has encouraged mental - health professionals and has not produced any. In cooperation with office, there have been a number of health issues for play, elementary and high school, and even health-elevating rural communities, and that's fine. It needs to be continued, but unfortunately, these projects often come to the end of the country's priority when it comes to choosing what is considered most important because they often adhere to their financial expenses. You see, we are still a little trapped in our view of health and prevention as an expense rather than an investment. One focus of the health - care program is the development of the country's lack of mental - health services, which includes the use of distant health care services and technology in order to achieve them better goals and interesting goals. The need for the population for mental - health care has not been formally evaluated, rather than for other health care services in the country. Of course, this is urgent, and hopefully we'll see some sign of it in a new health conference. Of course, it is normal to map the need for mental - health care and health care in general in a organized way and regularly in the country to meet the need. Mr. President. Another goal of the mental - health program is to strengthen the health care and increase the number of psychologists to serve there. This is a particularly good development, and we have to follow through there. One out of three who turn to the health care unit has mental health problems, and this group has just been cornered. According to protocols, psychologists are to be active at every health center in the country. Not many years have it been true that psychologists worked at a clinic and received patients, that they could handle their assignments, had something to say. Many studies show that the treatment of a psychologist is a better solution to a particular problem, a better treatment than chemotherapy. It may take longer, but it is a better solution permanently. Medicinal products are good, crucial to quality of life when appropriate. The use of drugs by Icelanders is perhaps completely out of place, causing world attention. Physicians prescribe more sedatives, hypnotics, antidepressants, and overactive medicine than are known to occur elsewhere. We need to know why it's this way. They don't have us today. The report suggests some explanation, probably or theories, but careful professional assessments are missing. They need us. It should be part of our mental - health program. The main objective of public health policy since 2016 is that Iceland will become one of the world's most healthy people in 2030. We're doing quite well, but if we're going to get this goal, we're gonna have to board up sleeves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u83	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the report and the review. It is good to think that the health minister has charted the situation and is going to follow measures in the seminary. The guides are human rights and authority, where the user - directed service in close to the environment plays a key role. Therefore, it is important to keep going, for no matter where you look, there is an increase in the availability of a mental - health service. That is where free society is important. I'm specifically referring to thinkpower, but the mindpower's operation is in complete uncertainty for some time now. In fact, this appeal is not to be surprising, since cost and availability for adult psychology services remains the exception of the general payering of health insurance and can be very high. Each treatment period in an independent professional psychologist is commonly found to be in the range of 12,000,15,000 k. Already some high school students have responded to the call and bought the service from private sources or have hired psychologists into school. According to a report on elimination in high school, two schools of psychologists employed half a job and the results are measured as positive, but they can be done better. Iceland's Psychologist Association has about 550 psychiatrists on various jobs and on the website of Medical Insurance for Iceland shows that only nine psychologists have a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance. These are psychologists who are concerned about young people. Eight of these are located in the capital area and one in the region. I'd like to wonder here if the reason why the psychological service has not been increased by putting it under the health insurance hat is because you're afraid too many people are going to come for help, as was the case when the physical therapists were signed. Then the number of those attending physical therapy multiplied. I can't protect myself from thinking that way. It has been made clear that there is an increased level of mental health care within the health care sector, although it seems that it is possible to increase the standard values for demand. Waiting lists are long, and the health care professionals directly have individuals in need of the service to an independent, active person. It has a shorter waiting period. However, it remains, correctly, that access to mental - health services should be as likely as available to other health care professionals. Likely, people will still have to wait for the necessary improvements, since health centers in the country can keep seawater just when they try to set priorities. The question remains: Is the matter too complicated, or is it a matter of personal protection? I still wonder, " Is it more correct to change the principle so that every mental - health service will be submitted to Iceland's Medical Insurance, including Psychological Service? ' Then, without going to college or college, everyone can take practical and practical help. I called for answers on this point, as I have done many times before. The psychiatric services are very busy moving to what is called the first stage of the medical system, i.e. Medical care, as mentioned above, is important before the problem becomes more serious. But what if there is a more specialized problem? A person is referred to a person's mental condition in which he operates or is an independent psychologist, as I did earlier. Let's stick to the spirit. It is not granted that a person who consults a psychiatrist will receive an interview. There's nothing given. You see, the mood also needs to set priorities, and I wondered: " How much of the problem must be, or how will we usually define whether, when, or how people receive service? The most striking thing is that psychologists with all their work experience and training and living rooms such as the Little Anxiety Treatment station will not be able to reach the National Medical Insurance Convention despite working solely with children and young people, and they will enjoy the guidance and teamwork of very experienced psychologists both here and abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u84	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the health minister for this report and the discussion on the report. Clearly, that is a great willingness to do well in the seminary. It is a matter of taking on a vast number of important assignments, and most of all is the effort to keep up with the wide variety of tasks involved. What I would like to say at the outset is our education system because it is important that there is a place where we can do better in mental health. I mean, of course, not only to improve the well - being of our children in education but also to increase the knowledge of employees in schools on mental illness and symptoms of anxiety and depression as well as to have knowledge and a team to intervene when the problem is needed in the early stages. The majority of school eliminated is among those who are less sensitive to their well - being and learning ability. How important it is that we work hard to support young people with spiritual difficulties and learning challenges to continue in school! But the school needs this knowledge to keep track of students and to recognize safety signs and can work with parents and experts, etc. By being able to react and keep your eyes open for early symptoms, you can often interrupt, e.g. anxiety that has not become a mental - health project but can quickly become a failure. A team of people with such symptoms or mental problems needs help, and we need not be afraid to associate members of such a team and make use of how small we are. Sometimes when we look at the system from outside and talk to people who have used it, its users, it's like it's designed for a society that hasn't had access to technology or that the country is simply so big that it's absolutely impossible to achieve integration between schools, countries, free communities, and other experts. But there is something else that we need to remember that as we continue to pursue a course and do more in mental health, it is not to forget to look at the situation of young boys and young people in disability. The percentage has risen to 41% in the population of young men during the past six years. That's a huge number. Mental disorders are by far the most common reason for disability in Iceland. In Iceland it is based on psychiatric diagnosis. There we can also connect with the educational system and the status of young boys in it. As we look at the low results of young boys in the education system who often get lost and lack new thinking in teaching, we need to have the courage to change and courage to think again, especially mental health. One is what each of us needs to think about when discussing matters such as a mental - health report, but this is how important it is to examine the context of the parts. In general, we all lack the courage to step back and see the big picture. We stress certain issues. There is a great willingness to improve mental - health status at all levels, but sometimes it is harder for us to step back and see a larger picture and a greater context of the parts. At the same time as we discuss the status of young boys in education, we also need to include in the picture a number of young boys or young men who take their own lives or who are new in disability. That's the context of the parts I wanted to mention here. We have to have the courage to ask questions and to think about the basics, education systems, and other smells because when we discuss mental health, there are so many ways to look at them. And the system is complicated. Most important, it's a project and a challenge for a minister I know that is to try to get around and look at the big movie, but users also feel the complexity of today's system. When a person has a disease, a leg break, diagnosed with cancer, there is a way that the system offers, a service, but when it comes to mental problems, one points to another. Maybe that's the problem. The report contains two pictures that actually show us the diversity and how many of us have tremendously good, powerful organizations and a free organization, but there is no way. That's our next assignment. It is as the report says, a respectable president, if you let me quote it: ▪ Mental - health problems often appear early and can have a profound and long - lasting effect on people's lives. About half of mental disorders have developed into adolescence, and 75% of mental disorders have developed when individuals are in their mid - 20's. The process for children needs to be extremely clear and better, so you can get right into the problem and then the angle of the user is extremely important. Like many other things, we need to talk about the status of the people in the system, and we'll do better in this, as well as in many other things, when we're in the process and we're creating the system. But there is an enormous amount of good in the report. I encourage ministers for all good works in this regard, and I know that in this room there is a great deal of agreement to do even better when it comes to mental - health issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u85	President. A mental - health program adopted at the General Assembly in 2016 was the primary objective of improving national well - being and better health and contributing to the more active social activities of people with less or longer - term psychiatric disorders. We find that working on individual goals in some cases is fine, but in most cases it is just beginning. But what is lacking most is that we do not see how work aims toward the main objectives of the programme; integration of services to psychiatric individuals, improving child care so that their well - being is helped, ensuring that people will not be discriminated against on the basis of mental health. I'm worried that if we continue to work on individual goals, the report does not show how results will be measured, for success can be measured only by the well - being and the mental functioning of the ministry. The way we have the best way to improve the mental health of the people of the land will be recommended only by their direct approach. In Iceland too often there is a theory of expertise. When it comes to developing policies on such important issues as those that deal with basic health care services and the basic needs of people in the community, we focus on the problem above. This report includes an analysis of how our system is not good enough and includes experts'assessment of the need for changes. Although this is an excellent approach and is necessary in some respects, we need to look at the system below, from the viewing point of view, the experiences of those who need to make use of these systems. All too often, when discussing mental - health challenges, people with experience in mental - health challenges are not addressed unless they are for decorations. Around the world, the movement of those whose own experience focuses on us is not ours, as we sit here, considering this to be some technical problem that can be drawn out to experts to fix things off. This needs to be changed. The state of mental health in Iceland is not good enough. Unfortunately, she's gotten worse than she's recovered. Money shortages have been closed or the government has stopped making contributions to them, and we know that many people have to wait weeks and months after receiving appropriate mental - health care. A growing problem is seen in the Icelandic labour market and in the Icelandic community, which we are just beginning to realize. At the same time, young people's mental well - being, especially young men, has deteriorated greatly. Since 2012, young men with psychological diagnosis who receive disability improved by about 30% and mental disorders have now been the most common cause of disability in Iceland. At a rate of 7,300 people, 38% of micro-energy transplant recipients, are desperate based on mental - health analyses. I miss the report on the lack of specialized service to vulnerable groups. For example, there is a persistent lack of long - term treatment for people with a dual and triple problem. This deficiency includes: As a result, the number of homeless people in the capital is increasing, with the result for individuals themselves, their partners, and their rural society. Similarly, the Department of Mental Help, State Review and U.S.A., committees against torture and disrespectful treatment have repeatedly pointed out that limited mental health services in Icelandic prisons do not harmonize with the civil rights of the Constitution nor with the European Convention of Human Rights. The report puts little emphasis on the activities of free partners and the share of policy users and the implementation of the service. Yet, we know that this group of issues is concerned that the formation of a mental - health disorder is usually driven by a free organization. The results that have resulted have been extremely important to those who have used them. The fireman, found in a free organization, is to be celebrated and used instead of excommunicating. The report does little to explain the effects of community and culture on the mental health of people. Yet, research has shown that factors such as work culture, family and children, have a major impact on the mental health of the common people. This is so that we can do more to improve our mental and emotional well - being than simply improve the quality of our life. If we want to help improve the spiritual and physical health of the people of the land, we must rely on the best and most recent knowledge and use the tools the knowledge has created. We need to look to the sources of stress in our society and how we can build up a community that is not based on driving people out either to school or to work, thus promoting the mental problems that we now see on an ever - increasing scale with young people. We need to strengthen prevention, make sure that no one lives on or below the poverty line, look to a better diet, encourage inner meditation, and make sure that people have space and the opportunity to gain inner peace and purpose. We need to shorten the workweek, give people more time with their family, for at the same time, we are giving our children more time with their parents. To shorten the workweek is to invest in our children. What I'm primarily talking about is a human society in which people are not just drawing out their lives but have the opportunity to thrive and thrive. This is the most effective way to ensure the best physical and mental health. We must join forces to build a human society in which we put our well - being and our spiritual and physical health first. President. Thank you for your report today. I hear the highest. A minister uses these terms in his own way, making it a cause for rejoicing. It's good that we continue to work on the goal of improving the mental health of all the people of the country, and that's what we all do, and I really hope that we will achieve that goal together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u86	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir for reviewing the situation and the interesting reflections that a minister puts out on such important matters as mental health care. It is easy to hear that the minister goes to work with his will and with shuffling sleeves in these materials, and he is well acquainted. The strategy and procedures of mental health were adopted in 2016 to four years, but its primary objective is by permission of the president: ▪ Aside from the quality of life and better mental health of the people of the country, more and more are involved in the social activities of people with less or longer - term psychiatric disorders regardless of their habitat. It will be looked for integrated services and emphasis on preventing discrimination on the basis of mental health, as well as on child - rearing conditions that contribute to their well - being. Our whole mental - health policy is accepted, but there is another matter to which we can maintain the strand and how we spin it. For everything, education and information are to be avoided. So it is important to focus on the foundation, and the cooperation between state and community in mental health is of vital importance. Farmers have both nursery and elementary schools to do. The foundation for good mental health is laid through school, leisure activities, and sports. Early intervention and collective measures are important as soon as the trials are noted. School health needs to be done in a collective way, but it depends on all aspects of the future. Paediatric risk factors such as anxiety, depression and/or paediatric trauma are a factor in prevention. Thus, appropriate support and instruction can be provided if the individual is considered at risk. But not everything is done through school but needs to care for family members, to support parents in the role of parenting. It has a positive effect on society. Psychologists, teachers, and psychologists have stressed the need to slow down society, to live in slow - moving tempos, to pause, and to enjoy. It's so easy for us to put our heads under and keep going. A milder - rhythm society creates a better sense and space for the attention of one another. The way it is is to make plans for an extension of birthworm for 12 months and for a flexible or shortened period of work. It brings us closer to a family-friendly society. A respectable president. When it comes to organized health care, all the people of the country have the opportunity to have good service at any given time, regardless of their location. This is true of all health care services, whether they have spiritual, physical, or social health. It must also be proved that the service is performed at an appropriate stage of service. A new domestic policy plan expects close consultation between recruitment and government institutions and rural society in the implementation of regional policies to ensure the coordination and planning of the government. In this regard it is said that a service card would show the access of the people of the land to public service. There will be a database for further policy use, and it will also be able to see where the shoe contracts in health care. The inhabitants of the country, wherever they live, should have access to a multidisciplinary team of health and social services. Today, governments have emphasized the importance of public service. Mental health in the capital area has increased and established new tanks in the region. This is a good basis for an integrated mental - health program on the land and for continuing to do so. A goal of mental - health movement throughout the country is to bring the people closer to their ministry by setting up clinics as the first stage of service for those with mental health problems in the society in which the service is living. Having a view of the ministry available, the team helps to make the most of its dealings with other institutions, professionals, and treatments for mental health. This is also dealing with prejudice within the community and the health sector, which are very important too. This is to improve the ability of the health care provider to deal with more complex mental illness. It is a pleasure to see a mental - health team being established in all parts of the country in 2020. It is also a joy to see that our goal is to look to different groups of people and to meet them, such as. the deaf and the deaf, and their access to interpretation services. This also needs to be present for other groups, for example, for all social groups, it needs to be involved. Other disabled individuals, foreigners, and others Everyone should be able to make sure that the clinic will be their first stop in case of a crime. A team is expected to be able to determine if witnessing can be used to treat people because of mental illness. It is meeting people in the scattered regions and ensuring the access of all the people of the land to mental - health services. Communication services are being used in many places. There are supportive schools, such as speech classes and interpretation services, as well as psychological services with students. Has this given us a great deal to do in many parts of the country? Remote services also apply to public health care and it is important to continue developing this procedure with an open mind. Of course, it must be given safely as well as various ways to make good use of the ministry worldwide. Despite the fact that such a ministry is never fully replaced by a personal conversation, it opens up to equality, and in some cases it may be easier to approach the problem in such a way than to get to the ministry for a long time. A respectable president. There are many pots broken in mental - health matters. There's no long-term planning. It is important that things are generally thought - provoking to help people with a double problem. Long-term measures for people with mental illness are missing. Many have cultivated mental disorders and have not received mental - health techniques and appropriate measures to get to a better place. It is not new to see that a person with a double problem is saved in a prison vault. There are also cases where individuals have become drug addicts and have landed in each part of the system. We are not only talking about young people and their caregivers but also about adults who come to shut the doors in the system. Psychiatric disorders are not impartial, and they often follow people out of life. For those using drugs, there is no room for farming. There's no farm plan for women in this situation. There are women on the street who are twice identified and who have many treatments behind them that have not turned them over to a full social event. There's a lot to do. One of the most important things for people is the home, but often there is only one thing to wait for treatment, and that is the hole. The treatment will not be successful unless the individual sees the purpose of returning to his home and starting rehabilitation in a safe haven. There are no options for these women. There are options for men, but there is more to be done. There are women who have lived there for even years in Konkoti, an emergency facility in her home. It is only a temporary resort, and it does not result in the possibility that those staying there can call it a home. Women must not be influenced in the female shelter. Therefore, it is so important to find a farm plan for these individuals. People on the street are not able to work with their problems, and it is often a very traumatic experience. In my documentary, let me live, as shown in ROV, a short time ago, women who were on their way to therapy were not sufficiently optimistic about success because they did not know where or whether they had any place to lean on their heads after the treatment. This group may be likened to refugees who have fled their homes, and life will always be a fugitive when they do not have a safe haven. A four - walled house is a subject, but a home is built up in a slow process. Thus, broken homes are often the threshold that many break down in their rehabilitation process. Participation in society is important to everyone. A return to a workforce can also make a significant difference, both economic and recovery. The labour market needs to be prepared to welcome those who come from rehabilitation, perhaps with reduced job strength at first, but who are willing to participate. Participation and flexible work hours must come in strong, and in the end, it must be a common interest for everyone to create a chance for a return to the workforce. A young man who has worked hard has helped many to regain his sense of employment and self - confidence. The purpose of this service has been to help individuals with health problems back into a job market. Part of those in rehabilitation look for their previous job, or they need to look again. Rehabilitation also takes place through work and work, and it is a vital step in a return to social activities. A respectable president. We have an integrated four - year - old mental - health policy, but time is tickling and current course expires in 2020. I guess it's time to watch the next step and which course to take. What will the emphasis be on the next course? Will the emphasis be on developing a twofold challenge for individuals? Acceptable policies should be organic and should be constantly reviewed with emphasis on broad consultations so that knowledge and experience will be most useful. All work related to the implementation of mental - health policies is expected to result in a more structured response to work ethic, increased coordination and cooperation in improving health and well - being of the public, and to reduce the impact of poor health. Thus we are able to maintain acceptable mental health throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u87	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. A health minister for this good and for the report. It is filled with expectations for brighter and better times, and this chapter that deals with mental health will certainly never be well enough for the future. What we're looking at today and the highest. A health minister mentioned earlier that 40 people committed suicide last year. The remaining year, 40 individuals are dead and are being investigated as to whether and how many of them just died from drug poisoning. Our psychiatric teams, the hospital, justice and security departments, and now the last Skúli Magnússon, a local judge and former chairman of the County Association of Iceland, are talking about the big increase in forced care of young men and boys. For what? He says it's cannabi smoke. Without a doubt, young boys who start smoking cannabis between 12 and 15 years of age will go through something like this in more than fewer cases. It has been observed that at the time of their early 20's, these young men find themselves insane. So, what will happen to them? They are under compulsion. They're in Security. They even get help so that they can work in society and come into the community. They get medication and all the equipment. But what's the follow-up? It's small or nothing. They're so limited that these many people have to stay in a mental ward, although they're supposed to be ready to go back into society. There are so many things we can do but put down beautiful words on paper. There are many things we can do if we respond with actions rather than with words. I know it's the best part. A health minister is a difficult man. This is an enormous task in her arms, and I really wish her the best, and I expect very much from her when I knew she was given this difficult task. But that doesn't change the fact that I think too much of speech, too little of performance. I'm looking at the waiting list at the Vog, 600 people. In many cases, addiction has now been recognized as a direct psychiatric disorder. Why are we, a respectable president, with 600 people on the waiting list for help inside the Vogi? I just can't talk about it enough in this country's highest power. Can we ignore the fact that more people have died this year because of an addiction than they did from all other diseases in Iceland? Is it possible to ignore it? I say no. That could cost us 200 billion. K. Delete this list. Within a year, we would be balanced and could accept all who would be willing at the point of seeking help. We could do it right away. 200 million people in this regard are beans, a respectable president, not green beans, but the full meaning of the word. We talk about this system being great all over the country; it should not be subject to whether or not we will be assigned to service. We look to the school system. During the 2016 election campaign, the first campaign I joined, the president of the Shockers, with a newly formed political party, was one of the graduates. Our young people asked for assistance, psychological services, nonprofit psychological services into their school. Where is she now, respectable President? We all promised that if we were authorized to do so and sat here in those chairs, the children would receive this service. Where is she now? What would happen to 30% of young boys who graduate from high school with poor reading skills? How are they doing? Do they go to college? And if they are going to try their good fortune there, what will happen to them? Who are the people involved in this mental disorder? How do we react immediately? Not tomorrow, not with lovely words, but with actions immediately. A respectable president. I sent the highest. A health minister who knows that it truly has a difficult and extensive work to do. But I trust that by a concerted effort and a powerful desire, we will be able to change the situation immediately and solve the problems that far too many of our young people live today. Mental - health issues in Iceland need not be as terrifying and as miserable as they are now if we act right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u88	Madam President. Health issues have often come to pass and are still doing so, unfortunately, while a good desire for something better is being done. Why am I saying this, Madam President? Consider an example. Someone who has a serious accident or diagnosed with a serious life - threatening physical illness may not be able to get back home, wait a bit, see how it will be, whether it will just be more refreshing, or that the department will be closed over the summer hours, a long waiting list is in custody, and we'll be going to all likely, prejudice, or even excommunication from society. No. Happily, there is someone who is affected by such serious, life - threatening, physical illness most likely arrived in our medical system with a plan and all that is done to find a cure, although some may never feel that there is enough to do. By doing this, I'm not saying that the good professionals who have specialized themselves in their mental - health matters do not care for their patients, far from that, but we governments have put these matters back in priority for so long. Although I'm certainly enjoying a report by a health minister and her good words and many fine things to be found there, I miss that the report more closely reflects the many problems facing those who really need help, where clients and families are sent back and forth inside and outside. We've had that experience, including. ... ona televisionmark of recent days. And there are times when the bill is to be paid. We can see that, too. Sometimes the search for help is that individuals give up on seeking help within the system. This needs to be followed. Lack of responsibility and unexplained processes get mixed up in each other's way. The opening point must be the individual himself and his needs. These endless walls need to be dissolved, where the systems do not communicate. In my opinion it is important that these measurable figures exist on results in this field so that they will continue to do exactly what has been done well and dare also say that we will cancel what simply doesn't work. Change in approach and increase the availability of a mental - health service to all should, in my opinion, be a top priority. We know that individuals aged 18◯25 face the greatest dangers when they face spiritual illness. In this country, every 5 women between 18 and 25 years of age will be tested for symptoms of depression. The most common cause of death among Icelandic men of the same age is suicide or addiction. A new report by surgeon general shows that about 9% of young people in Iceland have tried suicide at some point in their lives. 46,266 people released antidepressants in Iceland in 2016, a 22% increase from 2012. More than one third of all university students in Iceland are measured for moderate to severe symptoms of depression, more than 4,000 of them. And about 20% of students also have anxiety symptoms. The largest part of disability is paid by spiritual disability. I'd also like to, in this context, that at the hospital Vig, six patients per day will be enrolled on average every day of the year, with over 600 now on a waiting list. Only this year have 27 individuals under the age of 40 died by diagnosis of addiction. It is obvious that the first stop, whoever it is, is needed and that you can provide appropriate assistance for all. It is vital. An open discussion on the litigation party last year has provided more psychologists' standards in college, high school, and health care, establishing a basis for the current program, which is a cause for rejoicing. However, access is not guaranteed in the current system, and there is concern. Economics report that about 33% of Iceland's population are unable to afford mental - health services, and this is especially true of young, low - income workers. One hundred and twenty-five treatment courses at a psychologist likely cost between 120,000 and 220,000 k. Many individuals are forced to refuse this vital service because of lack of funds. This will lead to bigger problems and more expensive measures to cope with the problems later. That's what we know. Although there is increasing medical resources, there are also long waiting lists, and there may not be accurate resources that are suitable for the client. Then, what message is being sent to the public when public psychology services are not run down through Iceland's Medical Insurance, like other necessary health services, when addiction and treatment homes are closed for summertime because of lack of financial resources and when it is necessary to finance the free society of those who have handled the altruism, such as the Matrix, the Red Cross, and the U.S.A.? I also wondered, " Is it a good idea to resolve matters because governments do not want to recognize that the demand for increased health care in this area will be solved, not only by public contributions, but through varied means in cooperation with independent workers so that our health services will be so that people with all kinds of diseases and in the waiting lists will be treated? ' We must all see the importance of what is being done better at all levels, whether we consider improving prevention, management, school, treatment, or simply telling people that society is ready to accept and accept it when it is being treated and treated. I think it's at least... It's obvious. With increased emphasis on mental health, however, we can save lives primarily. This alone should be a good reason to take action. The amount of money spent in this category is often back, but it is sometimes like the system itself, and the financial resources that follow in the health system are going to go to where the excel documents are most comfortable instead of investing in solutions to diseases that have, Mrs. President, have been far too long below the surface. [[The president calls.]] - I'm gonna take more time, the next senator for Reunion will take less time in the press talk, we'll split it between us. [[The president calls.]] What I'm saying is maybe it's easy for the system to just throw the money away at that place, i.e. into this blessed excel document or on the range that is simply convenient to calculate because it is all so predictable. We're talking mental illness. They are not necessarily predictable unless we know that they have caused untold pain and harm to the people themselves, so I don't talk about Icelandic society as well. Of course, even when it comes to mental illness, it is up to us to give help to those who need it. Thus, it is our political responsibility to set priorities and provide funds for the seminary, helping to bring relief to those patients and to provide them with a better quality of life. I'm convinced, Madam President, that we can do better across groups to meet this problem. We're at least at least on wood. This is a problem that cannot be delayed solving and hoping that it will just disappear over time. It is simply not enough that all of us are aware of the seriousness of the situation here. Rather, we also need to keep all the beautiful promises and all the beautiful promises that have long been marked by a political discussion of mental health. That would be at least Good start.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u89	Madam President. I thank you for the discussions that have taken place here, and thank you very much. Minister for the report and her review of the report. We're talking a group that's important to all of us. Mental health and mental health are not the personal matters of those who may be affected by such diseases or by relatives who have suffered such diseases. This is everyone's problem, this is society's problem. I want to establish a special mental - health group that has not been discussed here today, older people. Older people exist in that way, just like the rest of us, that they get mental illness. What may be different with older people than the rest of us is that at adulthood, they often have been carrying their own diseases for decades. Unfortunately, it has been in our health system that when older people are old, they face prejudice, they really face at least To date, there is no specific alternative for those who are mentally ill. This is very, very sorry. ▪ Starving prejudices, and other mines - the Pollapansk song - are all over the world. In effect, older ones get double in their prejudices. It is not only that there are preconceived prejudices toward older people in the community. In this case too are prejudiced against the diseases they may have. Mental - health prejudices are displayed in many ways, so that those of us who believe that we are healthy are constantly wondering if there are no other health - care professionals who can take care of these individuals. We wondered, " Is there no need for people with psychiatric disorders and many of us in this room, including, in the media saying how much antipsychotic drugs we're throwing into older people? ' On the foundation of our speech, in the way we talk about things, our prejudices and prejudices of those who begin the discussion. How vital it is that you become better acquainted when talking about this type of disease because it is especially prominent that those involved are rarely in a position to defend themselves during the discussion. We have to remember this. It's nice to tell about it here, so that it's not empty darkness and negative, that right now it's working - I know about it -- to take the first steps to provide special resources for older people in nursing homes with mental problems. This work is now at the Department of Health now, and I'd like to say that there is evidence that now that we are going to put special emphasis on this ideal period in the health of mental - health professionals and mental - health professionals. All of this is important, and we must take certain steps, but we must take practical steps as well. It may be the last dot I want to come to, not to fall into the pit of getting a good idea, pushing it off, and imagining that now we have solved the problem, but rather follow the best plan, looking for information, as it indicates that we have been done in this report, following it, and then starting a journey that will not be long, but if we know where we are going, we are more likely to arrive at our destination.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u90	Madam President. Thank you very much. A health minister for her review of a mental - health report. Mental health, in effect, is the large elephant of the porcelain government camp. Health problems in general have been greatly neglected by the last governments in spite of national problems for health problems, but mental health is even more important. I don't know why mental health has been the cause of this neglect, but I suspect it has something to do with systematic prejudices about mental health. To be successful in mental - health matters, governments must come into contact with the whole system. Mental health concerns all aspects of everyday life, and so much more of the Ministry of Health has to do with this work than the Ministry of Health has to do with it. At that time, rural society and the state must keep in close touch on how to minister to a group of people suffering from mental illness. We have quite an opportunity to put our arms around those who have a mental disorder. Our social systems are built so that we can identify potential problems at an early age and with a family, if there was a political wish, to be able to provide adequate service with a sense of devotion but firmness. While mental disorders often appear early, 75% of mental disorders have developed in people in their mid - 20's. Since our school system and health care for children of high school and high school age are quite good, we should be able to use the mood network to catch those who have mental health problems, but unfortunately, we have failed miserably in our duty, and all too often, our plans and high goals have fallen into a drawer. That's the way it is, for example. with a mental - health program adopted here at the Council of Four to 2016, I cannot agree with the highest standard. A health minister in his report that with a mental - health policy and plan, an important and positive step has been taken toward improving health care. Granted, there are many practical suggestions for improvement, but it seems that few have been made. You see, words must be done. For example, the first action of the programme should be carried out in terms of legislation that state and community should negotiate cooperation in the field of mental health care. There is no interference with this law, which should be long suspended. The lack of discipline in policy development and financial resources makes it clear that both parties, rural areas, and countries, are in charge of mental services to individuals who are in need of service, leaving behind a strip, whether in the case of agricultural, health or functional measures. Another factor to be put into place is mental health, which would increase throughout the country, with one team in the capital area. Thus, people with psychiatric disorders were to have access to a multidisciplinary team of health and social services involved in the analysis and treatment throughout the country. Well, four years later, one new team has joined the capital area. One. No such team can be found in the country, as I know, and it shows that the approved mental - health program is in its final year of life not fully implemented. This is a fine document, Madam President, certainly approved by the General, but it is far from a sign of improved service. I also have some concerns about how wicked governments seem to recognize the worldwide need for service. It caught my attention to read in the report that the need had not been formally evaluated and that such food is desirable. In fact, I miss that this report does not contain any information about the need. Thus governments cannot really determine whether or how much is needed to perform the necessary ministry. The report that mental - health services are being provided at clinics throughout the country is not real; for I know that people in many parts of the country, whether in the capital area or in the country, will not recognize the necessary special services. Because of this lack of perspective on the scope and scope of this service, this report will be highest. I'm afraid a minister is little more than a speculation, an idea of the future than a promotion of the major work being carried out. At the end of my talk, I cannot let it pass to mention the two - sided individuals, i.e. Both mental disorders and addictions. The majority of individuals get out of the system, since they don't seem to fit anywhere in the few available resources. They seem to find out, nowhere in the house, no space. Many members of this group have had to dismiss the weak when seeking assistance in their distress. It does not vary between children, adolescents, or adults. Thus, we have repeatedly received reports of violent people being saved in police prisons, which, as everyone knows, are a clear violation of government rights against this group. Madam President. Much too little money is on the exchange, but the government has something to do with putting special emphasis on mental health. While people with psychiatric disorders are 38% of those who have been determined to have disability, one professional handles the health department. [[The president calls.]] The number of independent partners who have served people with psychiatric disorders has declined rapidly, but the need for the ministry continues to increase. [[The president calls.]] We just have to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u91	Madam President. Thank you very much. Health Minister for this report. Prevention should be a key factor in the implementation of a mental health programme. The foundation, the children, has to be started from the connection between infants and parents or other professionals to school, from kindergarten to high school. An important link is education for prospective and newly converted parents. During pregnancy, the physical health of the mother and the baby is greatly monitored, and pregnancy protection is taken when the baby is born. However, psychological and social support for new parents is very limited. When it comes to bonding with a child, a parent's ability can determine the outcome. When these relationships are disturbed, there are a number of problems that are more likely to arise. Therefore, it can be reasoned that the psychological and social support of parents and should be part of a mental - health program. Article 1 of this report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ Mental - health problems often appear early and can have a profound and long - lasting effect on people's lives. About half of mental disorders have developed into adolescence, and 75% of mental disorders have developed when individuals are in their 20's. It is estimated that one in four will at some point in his life deal with a mental disorder. For a long time, it is important to maintain mental health at the moment of childhood with mental status, prevention, and use of benefit - tested treatment as soon as possible. Well, that's very useful now, tops. Secretary of health. ▪ Special attention should be given to the delicateness of children living in difficult situations in which parents face mental problems and/or addictions in order to avoid the transfer of the problem between generations. A positive self - image is not only a prime premise but also a key element in the process of building a person. A person with a positive sense of identity has greater strength in regard to different mental abnormalities. It should therefore be cultivated from childhood. Madam President. I thank you for the discussion of these very important matters and the encouragement. A health minister to all good physical activity in a mental - health field, especially in a country where access to such services is very variable and far from acceptable. V.E.G. President. Mindpower, that's all I'm saying. National greed is needed. Psychological services, tops. Health Minister, under Iceland's Medical Insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u92	Madam President. In the U.S. Marshal's report. A health minister to whom we discuss rightly says that the goal of a well - organized health service is that all the country has the means to provide the best health care that can be provided at any given time for the protection of mental, physical, and social health. At the same time, it is aimed at providing the service at an appropriate service stage to meet the needs of the patients. This is true of mental - health care as well as for other health care professionals. Psychopaths'motto is: There is no health without mental health. How true this is! But we Icelanders face great challenges when it comes to mental health. According to one study of 28 experts worldwide, mental health problems are international and have reached danger levels. Inactivity, people suffer needlessly, says the report by the experts in The Lancet's respected medical journal. All countries feel the burden of growing health problems, and despite increased knowledge of their treatments. The loss of the world is expected to result from the loss of people with mental health problems at some 16,000 billion dollars. That is about $100,000. That's a lot of money nobody can understand. But one thing is the financial interests at stake, and other important things are the quality of life of people who suffer from serious illness, physical, or spiritual illness. Experts claim that nearly 14 million lives could be saved if the health problems were fully met. Serving those with mental health problems is everywhere worse than for those who suffer from physical illness. Anxiety and depression, as well as the consequences of violence and disaster, are among the major mental - health disorders that we face, like other nations, when dealing with other peoples. Madam President. In the United States, over 8,300 people are in the disability of mental illness. In the last five years, the number of these has increased to over 1,500. We're losing a large group of young people in disability, and the fact is, most of those who go to the microenergy pension will be in the run for a lifetime. There are now about 1,760 microists under 30 years of age suffering from psychiatric disorders. In the past five years, their numbers have increased by almost 50%. During a conversation with the United Kingdom TV news agency last August, Vigdís Jónsdóttir, director of the National Rehabilitation Office, said: It is so that when young people are about to enter energy to this degree, without having received appropriate health care and a long enough rehabilitation process with a reliable supply, we are a bit ready to give up on people. We have to help these people more. It's just very necessary. No matter how we look at the matter, which number we consider, financially, or about the number of those who suffer spiritually, it is obvious that we need a national campaign. We need to examine the matter and make a decision from many sides. We need to examine aspects of the medical system and why we have not been able to build up better and more wisely the necessary services, but we also need to examine how we organize the school system and how we are being rehabilitated and build up the insurance system. It's all gonna have to work together, not against each other. We need to make the wisest decision we can make when it comes to health care and invest in prevention. This is true of mental health and other health problems. I see that in the U.S. Marshal's report. Health Ministers are rightly said to have special emphasis on children and young people as 18 years old, the primary goal of Iceland's becoming one of the most healthy people in the world in 2030. It's only about 12 years. The emphasis should be placed on prevention and overall approach, including cooperation with schools and communities Nationalism is fine as far as it goes, and it is part of needed prevention. You see, investments in the present may be made at lower costs for the future, but above all a prescription for improved quality of life for the individuals involved. Madam President. During the following weeks, we will be given detailed suggestions on changes in the insurance system. I'm not going to go over the factors that are important to keep in mind about the changes we need to make and can't escape when it comes to the insurance system. But I would like to point out the need to keep in mind how integrating disability insurance and participation in the commercial and community everything is an unbreakable part of mental development and our struggle to improve mental health.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u93	Madam President. I would like to make human rights available to people with mental illness and mental - health disorders my subject in this important discussion of this fine report. She didn't exactly address it, but I'd like to put it in this context. As many people know, people with mental illness, or people who are believed to have had mental illness by some doctors in town, not the same human rights as we who are not considered to be mentally ill, because it is enough to deprive an individual of his freedom for three days and to be forced to the hospital for mental illness, for which it is possible to have a mental illness, or for which it may be equal to having a serious mental illness. This legal arrangement is a direct legal discrimination against individuals with psychiatric disorders or mental disorders. It is directed only against those suffering from a mental illness or those who are considered to have a mental illness that involves the loss of their freedom. Moreover, this loss of freedom does not refer to the same standards of right and wrong that we should get used to when it comes to depravity of individuals. They have a much weaker right to court treatment, and it is much easier to avoid those who are forced to stand before the courts and bear a hand for their heads and say, "I don't need to be deprived of my freedom. It is far easier to deny them access to a courtroom than, for example, to a court of law. ... incriminalbarities. This is one of many factors involving direct legal discrimination against psychiatric people. I choose to bring this up because I think it also matters tremendously for people with mental illness that they don't experience that they're some other kind of state, and they don't have the same rights as everybody else for freedom and privacy. I give a manly life because once an individual is under compulsion, it is as good as no requirement that the individual should also be forced to receive any medical treatment, including that of the individual. Inject them down. There is no need - protection or anything like that, just as when it comes to forced care. Nowhere does it say that there is a need to be so that there is no other possibility, that the person is dangerous to himself or to others. There is no such protection found in this law, which, as a result, makes the legal situation of those who are deprived or under compulsion unscrupulous, extremely weak when it comes to bringing such cases to court. If a person has been unjustly under compulsion, there is no need for forced care in a law other than the case with a serious mental illness. It is, of course, not acceptable, and it involves a lot of disrespect for that group and is, of course, completely illegal too. It just doesn't pass the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. This does not measure up to the European Convention, and it can hardly measure up to our constitution either. In the meantime, I think it's a little difficult to earn the trust and respect of people with mental disorders who suffer from being under compulsions, that they might not have needed it, if they have no legal option to look for it. I'd like to talk a little bit more about forced treatment because there's no rules at first. There are also other conditions missing. There is no requirement for emergency protection. Actually, it should just be forbidden. An unusual messenger, or ambassador, of the United Nations, has been a target of torture that may include the use of forced treatment, which may include drowsiness or prolonged pain. We have no defence against this in our laws. Healthcare professionals may be doing extremely well respecting the privacy and self - determination of their patients, but it is still necessary that we have laws and regulations about them in case of failure, that they have something to look for. As the situation is now, it's not. Not only am I to criticize this arrangement, but I have the CPT Committee called, or the European Council's Committee against torture and other inhumane and disrespectful treatments or punishments, pointing out this legal discrimination in law and also the data that we have to employ under compulsion to people with psychiatric disorders and psychiatric disorders. It has pointed to it since 1994. During all her visits to Iceland, she has identified the legal discrimination amongst people with mental illness in our laws and that we have too much to tell about the loss of freedom and far too much access to forced medical treatment. I think it's very important to make some changes. The law of justice rests with both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health. Therefore, I encourage these two Ministers to support the synoptic arrangement I have proposed for an overall review of legal laws that take into account the commitments we have to the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people and the uplifting of our legal rights to modern times and the legal rights to those who respect self - determination, privacy, equality and privacy of those who have mental illness or who live with psychiatric disorders. That's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u94	A respectable president. We are discussing a medical report on mental health issues and the implementation of a mental - health program. When I read the report, I was first very happy. I could see and see many times about working groups, consultation groups, cross-cutting teams, and I thought to myself, " Yes, now they're finally going to talk to someone who has the disease, to a mental association of people. ' But no, it's not on schedule. There is not yet an understanding in the system on: 'None of us without us.' September 1st. GET was closed, and the Matrix lost its closest partners. They've made a contract for the next six months with occupational therapists and psychologists. They're in thin air with housing. In this context, 44% of their clientele may be aged 18How and how old are they? Unfortunately, things are not being done as they are to be done to them. You always get the same feeling, and I've said this before, and I guess you never say enough, when you hear about working groups, talking groups and all that stuff, that it's just mentioned, no more information. Then there is something else, and there is work to do. There's always talk of working reimbursement, but there's not even a place to work for these people. Already in the fourth hundred people are waiting for part - time jobs. Officials do not even advertise people in part-time jobs with disability or other problems. Farmers don't do that, either. They prefer to reveal people who are in wheelchairs. And neither are professional organizations, neither are they in there. Sadly, almost all funds go to founded culture and disease development, which contributes to disability. There's another thing in it, and it's the pharmaceuticals. There are very different medications, and it's amazingly strange how this is, for example. with the concordance, which can be very bad and simply paralyzed by mental - health problems. Sadly, it is not the policy, which, of course, should be number one, two and three, to make sure that people do not need medication. It should be number one, two, and three because the disease is the worst in certain periods and as those who know how to remove it as the process goes on. Today, drugs seem to calm the team down, and then people are to be at peace. It's not supposed to be like that. What I was most anxious about in the report, moved me to think afterward, that the average waiting period of the children after being served on the BUGL has been quite long. Sadly, molds in housing and the health of workers have been taken into account, but it is being handled by people who are working to solve it. They're trying to solve molds in Pediatrics. Is there a working group there? Why don't we resolve a case like this one, two and three? [[The president calls.]] It's juvenile and adolescent, and there's a waiting list. There were re-elections before the election, too. [[The president calls.]] If we can't solve mold at the Pediatrics' house, how on earth are you going to solve the rest? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u95	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for the good and necessary discussion. Many very important and practical things have been observed here today. When I think about matters of mental health, I wonder: " When are we really going to treat or approach our mental health as a real health issue? We are still filled with prejudices that this is not a real sickness; it is not a real matter of health care. It kind of shines through no matter how much we look at it. We do not yet provide psychological services through the contribution of health insurance in the same way that we do for most other health care measures, serious health care measures. Strong trade unions for psychology services are not free from taxes, such as union support to e.g. A physical therapist, is a real health service. I think that may be the key point of our discussion. We must abandon such prejudices. This is serious. This is a serious health problem. There is a great need for serious health care. We know the cost. We know, see, and watch people peel from everyday life every day because of mental illness. We also know that the problems will not improve by looking beyond them by failing to provide early help. We're seeing the growth in disability as a result of mental illness. These are the problems we must face with full weight. We know the preconceived value of good mental - health service. We know the future health and health savings involved in both future phases. It is long time for us to start dealing with mental illness, health care due to mental disorders of the same seriousness as other aspects of the health system. This, of course, means that we need to make a large contribution to these matters within the medical system. There we are still discussing our donations, our budgeting for the mental health of the system as much as when we talk about the so - called real health - care system. This shows that despite all the success that has been achieved in this category, although we have certainly gone a long way toward reducing prejudice over psychiatric illness, we still have a long way to land, and especially in this hall. And it's time for us to change that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u96	A respectable president. Many have been able to discern how the mental health issues have been like an elbow child in the system for years, and we have never given them the place of normal. It may be wise to look back only because it is so short - lived since the policy that the report was started. It was not until 2014 that the initiative ensued by Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, the then senator, was accepted here in the Synod with a transnational support for starting a mental health programme. Then, in 2016, she came to light, and we will discuss it today. Sigríður Ingadóttir said it was one of the biggest public health cases at the time we had to deal with in a handsome way, and that's quite true. I'd like to come in on a few things, because the time is short at this end of the discussion. The first thing is about the problem of graduating from the third phase of the mental - health system. Then maybe I'm more likely to talk about the mental wards and then also the addictions of the U.S.A. in the case of people with complex problems. The directors of the National Hospital have, for example. It is noted that there is often nothing that will notice when people graduate from there. So it's shredded up and put on something right, and then it's just sent out and it just needs to work on it somehow. The same applies to the addicts that FEELD reach the groundwork and send off. The problem is not necessarily in emergency therapy but in after-treatment, because there are some kind of residences or what we want to call them, who receive and receive their rehabilitation, and who follow reports of farm management for people in a very difficult situation. There is a lot of work to do in making rules because there are all kinds of options we have today. There is no guarantee of the quality of that system. There is no guarantee that all groups of people who need to enter such an arrangement will be controlated. It's been mentioned here, e.g. that young addicts do not necessarily have many houses to live with. Women who also suffer from mental illness have no alternative. Many groups are likely to be counted. This problem reflects what is naturally ensuing in the discussion of all those who lack integration and integration in the system. We have several major systems that don't communicate well enough. The largest may be the health, social, and social services of the local community, but prisons, schools, and other things have been mentioned. This is one of the greatest challenges. Cooperation between different providers, services ladders, is not good enough, and within the public system, walls need to be torn down so that people get the needed service. Then, just at the end, I want to say how important it is to continue strengthening ourselves in the smaller talk close to the next user. [[The president calls.]] We will soon be able to reach full - time health professionals in the capital area, but psychological services in schools, high schools, and even early schools will need to be considered. [[The president calls.]] The availability of that service and mental - health services in general is also to be balanced on a national level. [[The president calls.]] It's certainly a broken pot.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u97	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you very much for the discussion and the highest. Minister for report. I think it's so important that we have to discuss it much more often and more regularly in this council hall and try to cross the whole area. Today's debate has shown that the stage is very large, almost wide, and I think it can be said that it affects everyone in Icelandic society in one way or another. Mental - health matters include so much more than those with any diagnosis, mental illness, or mental illness, and so on. It's so much more than that, and it's always getting bigger and bigger in a changed society. Therefore, it is very important to take it seriously, but at the same time, caring for it. That's not allowed to be a tab. We need to be able to discuss them in a clear way, and we need to recognize that there is no one solution. This is based on many of the solutions that work together, many people who have to work very well together and closely, and they respect what the rest of us are doing because we are as different as we are many. There is a difference between speeches, what suits us at each step in spiritual trouble, sickness. What are some of the ways in which people want to go and how they benefit? That's why it's very important for us to secure diversity. We need to have diagnostics and advanced methods and build up our system so that we can consult a complete health system that handles the problem, provides solutions, and answers. We also need to make sure that people can go without major obstacles and without diagnostics and services, in an easy way by means of short channeling, where they are invited, although not in every box, only if someone feels that they need help and can help. While such solutions do not meet all the strict medical requirements, we must still protect them. However, such solutions must also be criticized, and they must be able to withstand any other professional approach in order to be noted. It's only about diversity, so we can meet different people's challenges. Bioavailability must also be good. There should not be too much system and too much plunger or too long a waiting list to get into this kind of service because those who need it are usually in such a condition that they do not have enough energy to struggle with the system. We need to make sure of this. There are a number of options, and thankfully many are willing to do well and work hard to do so. In particular, I would like to mention "The Power of Mind, " which has been a great deal in the discussion, and "GET, " which is one way. I'm not saying it's supposed to be the state's solution, but I think there's a way that helped many people and often proves that it has to be there. We also need to make sure of such opportunities as telecommunications, where people anywhere in the country can obtain the services that are convenient for us through the latest technology. We've been light-leading the whole of Iceland. We've put a lot of money out of even that. Technology fund to design such a system to provide mental - health services, psychologists, doctors, etc. We've made all of this ready, but we have to make sure that these measures are there so that people, regardless of their residence, can go to the important service without the whole community looking at the psychiatrist or the psychiatrist or knowing that psychiatrists will come on Tuesday and go to the clinic. People need to be able to attend the ministry on their own terms. People need authority, enabling them to attend the ministry on their terms. Doing so will result in great success. In this regard, I would like to say in the discussion: We need to ask ourselves, " What does it cost to do nothing? ' That's what I think I'm the most expensive of all. What's the cost of not doing anything? . That's the most expensive part. Let us do so in the foreground on the matter and look for ways to ensure that, with the most varied resources, there is an important service to be offered. Finally, I'd like to agree with what has been happening many times, which needs to be started at birth, and that's prevention. We need to think it through the whole system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u98	A respectable president. There is good reason to thank for the fine discussion that has taken place here. I want less of it. The members of Congress are to state that the decision given here is to submit a report on the performance of a mental - health programme because I think it is very important to have this conversation with the council in the middle of the plan, i.e. Not just when it's over but in the middle of the season, because the plan comes from the Council and it's with the Minister of the Council that at any given time is due to the success of General Decisions. We are now in the middle of what is being said here, and there is, of course, good reason to consider the next steps and what is taking place toward the end of this program. Many members of the Parliament have talked about the importance of resisting prejudice and facing the fact that mental health matters are serious health issues, and we should discuss these matters as well as other aspects of health care and that spiritual and physical health are bound together. Many have mentioned the importance of talking to one another across the systems. We are doing so in many ways, both countries and societies. I'm in formal cooperation with the Minister of Education for Psychological Services in the school system and I want to use this opportunity to say it because this has been so much the way it's been going to be in the health system we have, that it's being done a hell of a good job all over the system, in the health care department, at health institutions all over the country, at independent centres and Hospitals, so it's being kept all the way around. I'm sorry, but I have to correct a problem. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, who claimed that there was only one team involved. We have a team in Reykjavík, east, west, Vistjörður and East, and they're starting a team in the North. We are fully manned according to a mental - health program, one psychologist for every 9,000 people before the end of 2019. Next year, there are 690 new ones in mental health. Of course, we need to do better, and especially improve our consultation with users. [[The president calls.]] We are aware of that. A respectable president. I think it's important that the council be informed of it from day to day, from month to month, what we're doing in the seminary because there is really no state in the world to do what should be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u99	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changes in medicine laws and laws of surgeons and public health prepared at the Ministry of Health. The objective of this bill is to promote the availability of women to sexual health services, as well as to promote such service, and to make better use of the knowledge of nurses and midwives in the sex - care field. For some time, it has been observed that the health - care professions are allowed to prescribe hormonal contraceptives and were proposed in 2012 but could not be achieved. As noted, there are laws on sexual counseling and instruction regarding pregnancy and abortion and sterilization, No. 25/1975, a review has been made in the Ministry, and to this end it is now being performed on the basis of a pregnancy break-out bill and a bill to correct sterilization procedures. Under current law, there are some things that include... It should be noted that people should be provided with an educational and advice on how to use and how to manage contraception. That's even. Nurses and midwives caring for the education and advice but these professions have not yet been authorized to prescribe the medicines. The committee appointed by the then health minister, requiring an overall review of the laws on sexual counseling, pregnancy and abortion and infertility, no. 25/1975, released a summary in November 2016 where proposals for the change were made in this field. This summary includes: so that there is a need for sexual protection and that sex education and health care are fundamental aspects of sex health. At the same time, the committee tore up the barrier to contraception and sexual health care. This bill recommended here is a factor in removing these barriers. Then it is stated in a drug conference approved by the World Council as a last March to aim for the restricted right of the health professionals to prescribe certain medicinal products. In addition, there is an increased bioavailability of sex health services in line with the World Health Organization's emphasis as well as the United Nations World Health Organization's third world objective for sustainable development, which contributes to health and well - being. A recent report of the UN Topic Centres on the World Health Care Professionals (SECS) reports that although the public has access to contraception by health - care and gynaecologists, it is urgent that additional attention should be given to the prevention and advice on contraceptive methods that could prevent uninjured pregnancy. It also states that especially younger women and women who have their feet in the community need to be taken into consideration. Then each individual's autonomy over his or her own body has been tried, including the right person to make a decision about having children. This warrant for midwives and nurses is taking steps to improve the availability of women for sex - health services, thus trusting in their own autonomy. It also has a better level of expertise in these classes so that health care will become more efficient, productive, and productive. Finally, it should be noted that it is important to make use of the knowledge of all health - care professionals in order to achieve more team benefits for users of the service and for the overall community. One of the main objectives of the government is the supply of health care. It is important to strengthen the health care professionals as the first access site in the medical system in order to ensure continuous access to all health care professionals. As the demand for health care services increases, health authorities' challenges are further increasing, so it is important that healthcare professionals use as the most practical and efficient way. The procedure discussed includes cooperation with doctors, who give nurses and midwives the opportunity to perform more tasks, e.g. to develop at clinics in the country. This product will be authorised to prescribe them in a medical facility where health care, gynaecological or maternity services are provided and the surgeon will grant permission to nurses and midwives to check the prescription for details of the specific requirements outlined in the Regulation. Among these conditions, the individual must have attended and passed the theoretical and clinical course of prescribing. As with the prescribing physician and dentists, if authorised, medical and dental prescriptions will monitor the prescription of nurses and midwives. A respectable president. I've now explained the basics of the bill. So, allow me to suggest that the bill be referred to. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u100	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this bill that's coming in, maybe not quite the first time. It will have been brought forward in 2012, and in the pharmaceutical conference, as the minister mentioned, it will be impervious to this will. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister a little bit of this. In accordance with the 1975 Children's Education Act, and other activities essential to childbearing, the obligation to instruct and give advice to these individuals should be considered and should be taken into account. nurses and midwives who care for them. However, it is also stated that this counseling service has not been as effective as it has been in man - made and that perhaps it is because it is only these members who have these provisions. But are there any studies that suggest that this is so? Is there anything holding on to it? Is it thought that the change in law will have an effect for the better? And when increasing emphasis is placed on the availability of sex - health services, is it supposed to be a challenge for this service and to introduce it more fully?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question of utmost importance, i.e. the educational and effectiveness of education, etc. I am not aware that the services or the information currently being provided in our system has been specifically assessed as sufficient or that it needs to be reevaluated and that the amount of law being put here will affect that change. On the other hand, the underlying and repeated discussion of publicism or the discussion of sexually transmitted diseases or the other assessments and reports I have received in the past few months and years is about the importance of providing both powerful sex education and, like, improving existing education and in all our systems. I'd like to mention in this context that I also think it is very important not only that it refers to sexual education in traditional terms but also to the introduction and review it from standards and sexual status, pornography, and other concerns we have to worry about in close relationships. This is an extremely important subject and an important part of creating a healthy community, especially when we increasingly see that events can affect both mental and physical health later in life.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u102	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. Moreover, it says that these assignments are entrusted to professionals who have enough knowledge to provide this service. I'm asking you how it's going to work. I stress that these are stalwart professional classes, have a very good education and a strong professional background, and are actually glued to the activities of many health institutions. Is it assumed that there may be one professional employee at any agency that has this authority, or will this be open? Will this be a special supplementary study, or will it be just an assessment of the individual employee? And perhaps also: Will this affect the salary of employees? Then, in the end, there is a law found in 2kret. where it is assumed that the Minister will set up a prescription code for the products or pharmaceutical classes for nurses and midwives. Does a minister see that more drugs than these specific groups can fit into what these classes are allowed to record? Does a minister see it as a first step? And finally: Does this change need to be adjusted? Is there a need to make changes in the law if this becomes a reality?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u103	A respectable president. I'm trying to get a hit on a big one in my answers. First, it is not expected that more medicinal products will be used, not that general opening is, but is actually a very limited license. It is expected that the person will receive and conduct a specific clinical and academic course of prescribing prior to authorisation. If the bill is legal, I assume that the Ministry will consult the surgeon's office that there will be work processes that are supported by midwives and nurses when prescribing these specific oral contraceptives. Exports for the number of people who have this source locally, etc. Would stay then. I suppose that's what it is. The welfare committee can also discuss this and draw conclusions after meeting guests and calling for references in this subject. As for the remuneration, I do not trust to discuss them from the Public Meeting. It hasn't always been good. Hv. A senator asks if there is a need for further adjustment. It's not. This adjustment is sufficient to set these changes. I want to thank you. A senator for otherwise handling matters materially.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u104	A respectable president. I can't let it pass for me to discuss this bill, I kind of have the blood to do it. These include changes in two laws, medical laws, and the laws on surgeons and public health, which are designed to improve the ability of nurses and midwives to do their important work. It's like the highest. The minister studied well in his talk, and the point is presented in the report in a small way. It's not as if this was the first time we've been discussing writing birth control pills to midwives and nurses. It is specifically discussed in the report that great human rights and self - custody have been imposed, including the right of an individual to make a decision on pregnancy. I think this is a very important point and I would like to encourage the Minister to continue in his conduct in this regard because I believe we can expect more primes from the highest level. Ministers who submit precisely to the importance of women's control of their own bodies. I believe this bill is important in so many ways, especially because, as mentioned in the report, it is being made better use of the knowledge of all medical professions. We have seen more teamwork in health care and elsewhere, and we see how successful it is. We were already discussing mental health, and teamwork is of great importance. There are many classes within the medical sector that can achieve so much more as they work together. I'm really happy about this, and I think it's time we open up. As the report shows, this is also known in the North countries, and we know this well from the United States, since nurses can add extra schooling to get the right to write out the prescriptions for certain medicines. It's a methodology that I like very much, but it may be a bit of a step. Well, this is one step, at least, I'm celebrating very much. Finally, I would like to point out if there are even more things to consider. I have mentioned earlier in the talks proof, which is commonly called a doctor's certificate. The nature of the matter, according to the doctor's statement, is proof of the doctor, but if I understand this in the 19th paragraph. a law about health professionals speaks of certicates, opinions, and professional statements, and is not specifically referred to in this article only by health professionals in general and professions. In contrast, when it comes to the Regulation as a minister, it is permitted to follow the laws, especially regarding the interpretation of doctor's certificates and the use of a doctor's certificate everywhere. I wanted to encourage the highest. A health minister to see it and even to see it. The well - being committee that considers the case, that in the case of a certificate written by doctors today for the extension of orof a maternity - it is specified in particular which cases it may be, and then it has a preconceived value so that women do not start too early at birth or because of mother or child's diseases - why is there a need for such proof written by midwives, and do not need medical attention? I wanted to throw that into the discussion. Other than that, I'm already quite positive about this bill. I'd like to thank the highest. A minister for what appeared in opposition to the fact that when it comes to sexual health and sexual education, we may not need to expand that concept, but we need to consider a much different concept. I think it has something to do with so many of the things we've been discussing today. This is important in what we discuss about exactly here but also in other contexts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u105	A respectable president. I thank you for taking the initiative in this matter. I just want to step aside a few words. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, though I do not object to her, first of all, thanking her for holding on to her, which is very important to this matter, that it does not stand alone. This issue is part of a process of community change, change of mind. It's part of a woman's cycle of freedom, and we should look at it as such. Of course, much of it is about improving our ministry and making better use of the knowledge available to our health - care providers. But there is also a certain form of sex that is important. I want to thank you too. A senator for encouraging us all on the subject of the sexual issues of women and the principle that a woman has her own body, for the one who later stands at this council will likely recommend a new assembly on pregnancy break. We're watching a different time. I agree, and I think it's a good idea. Despite the question of whether this particular matter is at home, the welfare committee examined it with the certicates. But I think it's true that the committee uses the trip, so to speak, to discuss only whether more options to make better use of professional knowledge and to set strings together toward teamwork than we are now doing. This is really the development we are seeing in these materials all over the medical world. I hope to have a good partnership with why. the welfare committee for the recovery of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u106	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a change in the Alduke's law on emissary. The bill's on the roof. 250, 235th of this council. I present the bill on behalf of the International Presidency Committee, all of whom are assigned to the bill along with the publicists of the Cradle and the Gangs. The subject of the bill is that by the resolution of the General Assembly on December 19, 2015, the government was commissioned to validate for Iceland for an optional book making on the United Nations Convention on torture and other brutal, unhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment approved at the UN General Assembly on December 18, 2002, and signed for Iceland's hand on 23 September 2003. At the same time, the Council's resolution included preparation for the introduction of the book. The additional publication refers to the English term called OPCAT, and it is assumed that its validation will be carried out when this bill has been decomposed at the General Assembly. The Protocol requires monitoring of the individual people who regularly visit institutions and homes that save people of freedom in order to prevent torture or other brutal or disrespectful treatment. The monitoring will take place on the behalf of the International Committee, referred to in the book Committee, which visits the state of state as validated by the book and on the other hand the monitoring of each member of the Member State, generally referred to as OPCAT monitoring. That's what this bill really is about. The bill suggests that the WHO agent will be the member of the OPCAT organisation under the optional process and that changes made to the National Assembly agent in Denmark and the Council of Norway will be considered when these EICs were assigned to OPCAT in the countries. Thus, in particular, the role of the Generalist agent must be the party that according to the optional United Nations publication of its OPCAT operation in this country. Resurrected in the book refers to any form of imprisonment, saving or custodian care on the part of public members or private members, where a person does not have the freedom to leave the save for a decision, a decision, or a court of law, a government, or any other authority. Under these circumstances, there may also be cases where the authorities ignore or condone the depravity of freedom despite comments on it. Therefore, OPCAT surveillance may include a number of institutions and households, such as those within the justice system, juvenile protection sites, nursing homes, communities, and other similar homes, and housing resources. However, the number of strains, households, or divisions cannot be considered completely. Then there are also the number of people staying in such places. Are all of this made more clear in a report with the bill. V.E.G. President. According to current legislation, the employment rights of an agent to the administration of the state and community, including those which have been or may be involved, such as inmates, residents' homes for the elderly and economists for children who are being driven by them. The law also states that the agent's domain also includes private members in the extent that they have been granted official authority to make decisions about the right or the duty of men in the sense of 2 mg. 1st par. Government law. An example is when a private member of a nursing home for the elderly and the management of such persons, in line with Article 15. the law on the affairs of the elderly, the decision for the stay of the individual. Based on current legislation on the WHO, it could be entrusted with OPCAT surveillance with such institutions and households. However, the same applies to private agencies and homes that do not fit in with the agency's domain. In order to hide the agent of the General OPAAT Officer from such sites, it is suggested that appropriate changes be made in the Law to the Deputy Agent of the Generals. In line with the changes made in the role of an agent, it is suggested that his field of work be used by private members where individuals stay or may be deprived of their freedom and the detriment of freedom is supported by the instructions of the public parties, by their counsel, by their consent, or by their disparagement. Along with this, it is suggested that the job privileges of an agent be changed so that they also take over to the private at the OPC, and when a special agent is on the job, they can seek help from the police on the collection of information and information. Then it is stated that the responsibility for the officer of the General and his staff also applies to specialists whom he may be helped in specific matters, as shown in the closing paragraph of Article 7. the law on the agent of the Generals. Then this change is proposed to 10th paragraph. The current law that an agent can express his opinion on whether factors involving the activities of institutions or homes, treatment issues and the services of those places are the opposite of human dignity and human dignity. It is also suggested that, at the same time, the annual report should be made to his OPCAT and no longer be required to print the annual report of the agent to whom he is due to be submitted to the Generals. Seven. The bill is just a new review of the protection of those who provide the agent or Subcommittee information or report errors that fall under the OPCAT. At the agreement of the law, it was a means of extending it also to those who separate an agent from a crime or error in the administration of public agencies. It was then thought that the agent's surveillance is not bound to the factors of the public organisation falling under the OPC, and that the indications and information of fractures presented by individuals with an agent may involve more than directly concern the monitoring of conditions of freedom, according to the OPCAT Protocol. In addition, at the treaty of the law, a prime minister's tip, arranged in April 2018, was reviewed for the restoration of legislation in the field of expression, media and information freedom. After a meeting with the chairman of the Committee, it was a common understanding between his committee and the Presidency Committee that the bill and the proposed bill could work together with a prime minister and would actually be a failure to strengthen each other. Finally, the authority of the Subcommittee is specifically proposed to access private institutions and homes in which individuals can be deprived of their freedoms and to speak privately to employees and those staying there. A respectable president. Finally, I want to stress that this is a new project decided by the United States to want its agent to carry out his international commitments according to the OPCAT Protocol. On behalf of the Presidency Committee, it has been essential in dealing with the Ministry of Justice that an agent will be assured of the necessary additional financial resources so that in no way he will need to reduce his primary role in monitoring the European Commission and in ensuring the right of the citizens in their dealings with the government. Thus, the additional cost resulting from OPCAT will not be placed on the office of the agent or the General. V.E.G. President. I have now completed the reporting of the main elements of the bill and its main indicators. After this discussion, I suggest that this be done to the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u107	Madam President. This case is an enormous act of justice for people's basic human rights, not to be subjected to inhuman treatment or torture, and Piratars are delighted to see the bill come to reality with this basic rights, civil rights, in which these rights are natural. In effect, the right to be protected from torture and inhuman treatment is a last resort for the ability to defend civil rights and democratic society. On the other hand, the matter is far more extensive. People in our community may have to endure the inhuman treatment and torture that they do today. It's the kind of people with freedom. It is to be noted that the State has active control over the fact that people who are in a state of freedom are not treated in an inhuman way as they torture. The agent of the General Assemblyis is appointed by the bill to oversee this. The bill is brought by the President of the General Assembly and by other members of the Council Presidency Committee and the case will proceed to the Commission and Commission for implementation. But there is one thing that stands out, and I'm here to mention in my speech. The Generals'committees have concluded this, and the U.S. Marshal General has repeatedly informed the General of their concern about the safety of the citizens in the courts, the office of the courts, or those responsible for the writing. She repeatedly refuses to respond to an agent's request for information on possible offenses against the citizens of the country. After investigating this in the administration and monitoring committees and tracking what has been exposed by former judges and former Attorney Generals of the Court, it will be as much as if this office of the courts could violate both the citizens of the country and the own judges without being held accountable. Both the General Assembly committee of Justice and the review board, which supervises the legal procedure, agree with these repeated concerns of the Council of II. By permission of the President's commission and observation committee of 2016: In view of this committee's opinion, it is important to respond to the clues given by the Director of the II Parliament. And in the Committee of Public Education and Education Committee, with a change in the 2016 courts law, says, with permission of presidents: ▪ The Committee has the right to change the law of Sovereign Parliament's agent in order to monitor a judicial committee and the Court's administration at the hands of a member of the General Assembly. It says that the Agency is being updated and that this change is part of the adjustment. This bill is now being obtained by a board of directors and patrols. We've only thought of this in the administration and monitoring committee, and there's something we can do there, fixing what the agent has repeatedly called after, and the former judges pointed out. Because former judges and directors of the Court of Justice, now the Court's Department of Justice, that is the highest court ruling authority in the courts, have appeared publicly and clearly identified the abuse of public power against judgment. The Commission and monitoring committee has data on all of them attempting to break their activities. The basis for the legal state is natural, the responsibility of power. In addition, courts need independence in order to remain neutral in their judgments. That's the foundation. However, the legal authority is in the hands of the judges, and when a court office of the courts breaks judgment, judges are not independent. This is key. Prime Minister has declared that her bill on information law will cover the courts' administrations, this court office, but today this court office does not have to follow law, not government laws, not personal protection laws, and not equality laws. In the Western world after the collapse, there is a lack of confidence in rulers. Recent studies show that trust in democracy has failed too. Those who want to promote democracy and the legal government cannot afford to prevent the monitoring of the courts' administrations enough to avoid violating citizens, the judges of the land, without the minimum detection and enlightenment of such offenses by neutral and independent bodies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u108	Madam President. Hv. A senator introduces a subject that has often been discussed in this context and has certainly been examined. But the conclusion of the bill is to deal with the factors that are actually involved in Iceland's contract commitments to the OPCAT Protocol and its induction, so that we can bring it independent surveillance so that it meets all requirements and sets appropriate standards, e.g. ... thepreservationof an informant. In fact, it is longer than we would need to do in order to fulfill those regulations, i.e. This is extended over all the activities of the agent. However, there are no other areas for this time, whether it was for an agent to have a special role in managing the administration in the courts or so. These issues are all in consideration, with regard to both the European Commission and the administrative parts of the Court and, whether and when, and how, under administrative legislation, information legislation, and then to be expected under the personal protection laws and regulations of the new Regulation or of the directive. On our part, there is already a staff in progress toward the General Commission, although, in effect, people considered, as possible, the work should be carried out in accordance with administrative and information laws. This has, in effect, been developing in recent years. So there may not be much difference between formality and law. However, this conclusion has so far come, and now it is a matter of opinion at the Board of Directors'domain, i.e. The Ministry of Presidency. I have quite a difference, though I have a clear understanding of the views, that there will not be anything like this to delay the completion of this necessary legal system so that we can validate the book and initiate the surveillance to all involved. [[The president calls.]] We'd better do it by New Year's.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u109	Madam President. The responsibility we have is that we have information from former judges who speak of the abuse of power, i.e. The office of the Court of Justice, responsible for the writing, violates both the judges and the general citizens. We've got it in our hands and we've been in it for so long, and it's been going around in the system. When the Justice Act is changed in 2016, the General and Education Committee says that it does not have time to complete this, but refers to the revision, which was just with the prime committee and is now being released as a bill. It's always being postponed. An agent first pointed out in 2003 that citizens cannot be assured of the security of the courts'administration. And now we're here 15 years later. My approach to this is that if things don't move, I, as a member of the Management Board and Control Committee, are responsible. I've started talking to the whole party about how we're gonna finish the puzzle. Perhaps it's enough to throw administrative laws over the courts. If information laws are thrown over the administrations, as the prime minister intends to do, we all have information. But we don't have an active check on them because they don't violate judgments. Judges have already told us that they are wrong in their work, and then they cannot be independent. We've gone over the law, and so a judge can be dismissed, even temporary, etc., by internal Affairs, but if the courts themselves violate, there is no other superior judge inside. If we want to do this well, we need to finish the puzzle. It doesn't work to keep this open. The puzzle has to be finished. I'm going to notice that it will be done, and I hope I can get the help of every partner in this case to find out exactly how we're going to do it, we'll take that conversation on the committee. [[The president calls.]] As soon as I can see that the puzzle can be completed, I'm fine with it, and then we've fulfilled our obligation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u110	Madam President. I'm of the opinion, and to the point that it will be solved by separating these elements from the judicial system, and therefore from the General, which is to be subject to administrative legislation. Does that not mean, then, that it has become an official administration in the usual sense of the law, and the U.S. agent has a role in doing so? I think it's a much more clean and normal way than to start hiding an agent in charge of some undisputed legal entity that still did not hear government laws. I think it would be better to start at the beginning and assume that, as I think there has been no dispute, that the administrative factors in this operation, both in courts and in law, it is most natural that it should fall under government law, including expected information laws and personal protection regulations and all of that. But law has to be clearly defined because it is not expected, e.g. In the case of Generalis, that the legislation of the legislation itself, rather than that of the inner court case, is completely different, and not really administrative, as well as that in which humans must bear in mind their independence and separateness of power. There's a fact that a prime minister has a job in that area, and I think I heard her state that she's thinking that this is the way it should end. I have done the same for the Generals. We already have a group on that matter. So I am optimistic about seeing that land in that regard in the next few months or misses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u111	Madam President. That's good to hear. Regarding the government of the Generals, it is being supervised and maintained. It's the highest. The president of the General Assembly, who is democratically elected representative, does so. That's exactly the person who has such a checkup, as well as the vice presidents, including min We have a surveillance role for the administration. In fact, the management board has oversight and internal surveillance of the courts, with the judges themselves. It is stated in all the principles in the state of the state that such surveillance needs to be done, that I have been there, and that is, whether it's basic rules from the Council of Europe or OECD or other. The rest, however, is that the court office itself can violate both the citizens and the judges without being held accountable. We're going to have an active hold, and it's not what's called ◯acacouable, it's an Icelandic responsibility, but an Icelandic one's a bit more extensive, I think I'm gonna need an Icelandic word to cover it. However, this means that monitoring, informing about potential fractures, monitoring, responding, and improving measures can be provided, whether it has any means of discipline or otherwise. So I'm optimistic. I don't believe anything but to the highest. The chairman will step in a little after all these tips so we can finish the puzzle. This cannot be so that the Court's administrative office, the court's office, could violate the judgment itself, which means that there is no independent judicial authority. That is exactly what former judges have brought to our attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u112	Madam President. Thank you very much. President and w. A member of the Parliament for the presentation of this important bill to legalize a change in the law of the Allied agent. The assignment and commission given to the emissary of the Generals and his dignified office is now not to be taken lightly. This task is an enormously important task, and in fact, I feel very comfortable hiding this checkout from an FBI agent rather than some other institution in town. I can see on the bill that it was done in a comparable way in the North countries, i.e. This role is also played by members of the National Parliament. I have to say, I'd like to trust that we'll also make sure that funding will follow the mission. It is so often that we decide at a council or at the government to do some kind of work or job, or justice, and hide some government or office, but we forget that this calls for more employees and more work. And it costs money. That's all I'm worried about about, though, what I do know is that an agent will do a good job and with a good conscience, as he and his staff do about other projects. We're talking about protecting human rights and preventing inhumane and disrespectful treatment of those in freedom. Of course, those with a sense of freedom are somehow in the position of having virtually no means of living, so this certainly is an enormous task. But it is not only what the bill contains but also the protection of the informants that I must commend the prime committee for having placed there. Because it is as important that employees and others who witness that some kind of inhumane treatment for those in freedom - minded individuals, whether by means of prisoners or by people who are saved in closed departments of any kind, may, in fact, let the U.S. Marshal know what goes on inside the door without risk of being punished for revealing the information. I did it for 2 mg. 7. stands for the person who wishes to report or provide data according to 1.mg. should be mentioned if he wishes to be protected. I think it's very important that it's all right - but I'm going to read it better - that the agent's staff will first ask the person, "Do you wish to make an anonymous name? " It is very important for people who bring such information to be aware that there is a possibility of wishing anonymous ones, not to tell us who is involved in the violations or inhuman treatments. It must be clear, a bit like you will witness in court when the judge always begins to present himself as a witness of a court case. It's really similar. Before the interview, there is a sheet that is always read that people can request anonymously, they need to have a flash button on the Web site of the Generals' agent that this is a possibility. I think that'll further encourage people to step forward and tell about inhuman or disrespectful treatment of those with a sense of freedom. I'm not gonna have my words much more about this particular bill and this particular project, which I reiterate to be extremely important. But only because of a discussion between two of the carriers of the bill, why. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, and a traveller, w. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfurfurson, of the call of the Generals' emissary to change the law so that the courts also under his office, this has been repeated quite often, in both the speech and the publication of an agent. Of course, both are. The management board and the monitoring committee as well as the board. It's a private institution for members to produce a bill like that. So it's just what's the best way to do it. We need not worry that there will be a delay in this particular assignment that we know that the office of U.S. agent has been preparing for some time. The question is, Which path is most appropriate in this regard. But this is quite clear, and it has been repeated in the case of the General Agent, as well as in his annual reports and notes in letters and talks he has been sending, including to the Ministry of Justice, that he feels it is absolutely necessary that the Court's administration be also under the supervision of the U.S. Marshal. However, it does not seem to be the same understanding of a town that has simply not been answered when he has made his statement or sent in a question about various aspects of life in which either citizens or staff come to him. I think it may be time for the Council to respond to this call from General General, who is now older than two times in office and has very great experience. So I think it's worth listening when he repeats his wishes. Other than that, I celebrate the bill. It's very necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u113	Madam President. I totally agree with what. Senator. This is a very important matter. This may not be important, but it is very important. This is fundamental human rights and we should see our dignity in doing this well and even if it had been, let's say, because this is a somewhat older book, which is finally being made up in Iceland. Second, I also agree that I think it is well felt to hide this surveillance from an agent. This will be an independent part of his work, and everything must be met with the requirements of the contract and the book. I think it is both practitional and materialistic logical that an agent should conduct this surveillance. If we were to wonder who else should have done so, he is hard to find, I suppose, who met all conditions. The option would have been to set up a new monitoring module, since it must be independent and independent. I don't think it would have been a very technical arrangement. Of course, you know that such an agent's supervision will benefit greatly from the experience there and will be in good living with another general agent's role. In terms of the budgets, I refer to my debate and, in fact, to a good coverage in the report by the bill. It was promptly stated by the Presidency Committee and in agreement with an agent that the absolutely essential requirement for us to agree with this arrangement - I remind them that this would be the case before the Commission's wishes - was that it would be supplied, would not suffer from the current activities of either the agent or the Council of the Council. This year's budget contains about 2/3 of what is estimated to be worth on a full basis, and it is necessary to ensure the total amount of money in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u114	Madam President. I'm celebrating the final words. President and w. The senator with regard to the budget and agrees wholeheartedly that it must be absolutely certain that capital support follows this important work. I also agree that there is a great advantage in hiding this office, which has almost impure record, I think, so see, and have great trust, this vital role. Because the Generals' agent is completely independent of his profession. I think it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u115	Madam President. I'd like to have a few words about this bill, and I'd like to say at the outset that I'm celebrating it and I'd like to commend the transporters of this bill. It seems to me the first time you read it, you know, it's a good thing. That's one of the things I want to draw out specifically, and that's 7. g., which attracts so-called whistle-blowers or unveilers, or at least we call them or what we call them. This is a way of measuring a new article dealing with the protection of those who have an agent, paying attention to the emissary's agent, information or evidence of a violation or violation of government activity, or private members that fall under the authority's domain. This is very positive. This, of course, is about the interaction of informants with agent. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity, but we don't often have the opportunity to talk about informers in general, or sources, and expand just this discussion. The bill's report contains an excellent coverage of the council's earlier interest in the protection of informers and freedom of information and expression. Among other things, there are two prime products I presented at the General Assembly 13 and 14 years ago, which were just trying to promote the protection of informants and sources, especially with the media. Maybe it's the focus I'm going to discuss that even though we're here talking about protecting the informants from the U.S. Marshal's agent, I think we need to take this discussion. There's been a lot in the 13 years since I put in a bill to improve the protection of the informants or to discuss at least About them. At that time almost no sources or informants were mentioned in Icelandic legislation. The bill shows that there is one way and another failure to discuss sources and informants in the laws on the rights and duties of the servants of the State. They are also discussed in competitive laws, and, of course, they were discussed in the law of special prosecutors. In fact, the latter is thought - provoking, for now it has entered the office of the district attorney. It is sobering to think about why the district attorney does not have the same legal arrangement, so to speak, when it comes to informing, as a special prosecutor had, but in another discussion. When we set a law on the fall of banks, it was specifically about informers and sources in them, as well as when laws were passed on research committees, to name something. In a few words, I'm going to discuss the need to increase the protection of sources from the media. The aim of a warrant protection rule, i.e. A policy of ensuring anonymous authors and sources of the media is just to ensure that the media has the potential for information and reporting on every subject that concerns public interests. I don't have to say anything here, but free and independent media make up one of the main points of every democracy and the rule of authorization is one of the most important conditions for their adequate operating procedures. According to 73rd. The Constitution is all freeness of opinion and conviction and has the right to express their thoughts. In the European Court of Human Rights, a violation of freedom of expression has been established that the role of the media in a democratic society is not merely in providing governments with the need to sustain their criticism, but also in ensuring the public information on the issues of public interest. In the 1996 Goodwin case of the European Court of Human Rights, a highly famous court of the European Court of Human Rights stated that there is no protection by journalist authorities in the media, it was not known how to prevent authorities from assisting the media in providing public information on issues relating to public interest. The fitting lawyer Páll Þórhallsson wrote in his day, with the permission of a president: The government is obliged to respect a confidential relationship between journalists and sources. To demand that confidentiality be broken is to destroy this confidential relationship. For the media to fulfill their vital role, it is essential that they be given sufficient protection and peace of life so that they can practice free reporting and enjoy the public's trust. Otherwise, they may only report what the government wants them to report, but the rules for government protection include basic criteria that the media can contribute to a democracies society. The European Parliament has also issued a recommendation for the protection of the Agency, including some of which have been established. so that journalists should not be obliged to report their sources unless it has been conclusively demonstrated that there are no other means of achieving the same objective as interests of informing about the source are clearly richer than the public interests of religious beliefs. If adequate government protection is not ensured, it may result in the public information relevant to corruption, such as government corruption, not provided by the fear of authorities that they can have the revenges of employers, governments, or other interests that keep the information secret. Then the source may be dependent on others in some way or he does not want to get involved publicly in disputes, yet he still feels it is morally obligated to share information that is relevant to public interests. The European Court's Court of Human Rights in the 1979 Sunday Times stated that freedom of expression is not only free to provide information inexorably but also to provide information that is insulting or disturbing to the State or any part of the community. I may be calling for this team to discuss how we can promote the protection of the authorities in the media. I know there's some kind of work going on in this regard, but it's really important to us. 73rd. The Constitution, as I mentioned earlier, is decreed that men have the right to express their thoughts and must be accountable to the court. Thus, there is a relationship between the law and the protection of the author and the source of the media, but editors then carry a so - called objective responsibility for what is published in the media. Then, of course, there are many moral standards within the media class that are used to protect authorities. It is interesting to review an old district court of this hall in a language that was appealed against the Morning newspaper for articles on the end of the Union Cooperation Union and its trade with the Bank of the Lands. The conclusion of the district was that a reporter of the newspaper was supposed to testify on the case, but in the court of the Supreme Court of 1996, the reporter was considered unrelated to the source he had built on his writings or to whom his sources had been. In this fine and exemplary judgment, though old, the Supreme Court's decision was not based on the irresistibly right to protect its sources, but on the judgment of the court of the court on the interests of the plaintiff by the authorities. This is interesting, and this shows that although the years pass, we need to consider these matters and to ensure the protection of the media as we are doing here when it comes to giving information to the General Agent, who is, as I mentioned at the beginning of my case, very positive. Madam President. The public's right to information, freedom of expression, and criticism of rulers, institutions, and political interests are very rich and play a key role in the media. It is remembered that in the past corruption and misdirection was made by the European Commission, which led to the resolution of the entire Commission. Much needs to be considered when it comes to the protection of sources. The confidentiality of public employees must be considered. Also, private companies can be contracted on the grounds of silence and many of those who are. By breaking that confidentiality, the source can make himself accountable, and therefore I think that it must be very clear in the law how we handle such matters. It is simply necessary in my opinion to assist, e.g. The media informing matters of public interest and even the corruption of rulers will be guaranteed as a result of damage, such as resignation or loss of rights. This is what I wanted to say at this point. Now that we're here talking about the protection of sources and the right informer of the General Agent, I think we need at some point in this hall to consider how we can improve the protection of sources from the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u116	Madam President. It's a very joyful bill. This is where a agent's watch is set up, with places where individuals who have been deprived of their freedoms are staying. These people are highly dependent on those who guard it during the deportation. I think it's most fitting, as we've made this statement, that this surveillance is in the hands of an agent, that it is made possible to handle it and to hold onto it firmly and with the authority needed. Although I do not intend to go to a large public talk, I would still like to say that I love the basic provision of the informers and those who report unfortunate events in the case of what is being said here, that they have special protection. Actually, the law is the general nature that I think is of utmost importance. Although it is inserted into the law for this given reason, it has a general appeal for all who present a case with an agent and are extremely urgent. The report covers a wide range of areas in which a informant's position can be relevant, and I view this as a very important step in getting such protection on the outside. I'm really happy about this, and I think it's very important that this has gotten in. Because of the words that have fallen on the court office, the potential role of an agent there and the time that has taken up the court case somehow into the system that I think most of us would like to perform, i.e. I believe that we need to turn an emergency away from getting it into a fair course. I'll let me talk to you. That we will try to make sure that this matter alone does not delay, which is why I'm not saying we should take care of the things quickly and effectively. As mentioned above, it might be possible to do so independently. I believe that there is a significant agreement within the council that it has become necessary to do so. But I came up first and foremost to celebrate this bill and the important rights it involves for those who have to suffer a breakdown of freedom for some reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u117	Madam President. After completing history, we understood this matter and responded. a messenger, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. It's always a little hard to pick up when there's something there since you decided to say something quiet, but I'd like to start by saying that it's worth everything. Its methods or purposes are that we try to help cut down the general working hours, which I think we can agree on, in Iceland, on a more general basis, when compared with the principal control countries, and in the context of the shortness of time, as many evidences indicate, we could help to increase production in modern employment, and wherever employees may contribute to their work. However, I have doubts about the methodology of the bill, that the lawgiver is going directly into it, as suggested. It is for the reasons that I feel that the bill in itself is somewhat uncertain about what happens, that work time should be shortened, but that it can remain as long as it is, and it will not cost, but it will cost. I have to admit, I'm a little confused. Hv. A manager tried to explain this, and I think that was the main reason I made a noise at the time. But the other has come, for the matter has not been the first, many comments on the matter, and they have been of various kinds. Many of them agree with the purpose of the bill, but others do not say so, but they strongly oppose the intervention of the Council. Of course, it should first mention reviews from the employment union, i.e. The union of industry and the partner of professional drivers, and then from the largest national employee organisations, the United States' Common Association, which opposes the establishment of the General Assembly in such a manner as to refer to a form of collective agreement. Then, in March of this year, when the matter was last delivered, this reference is made that jobs are a common group of employers and employees working on the case. I don't doubt the good intentions and meaning of the bill, but I have serious doubts that this is the right way to solve that matter. I think changing work hours is such a big deal that it has to be done in a fair agreement between employees in the labour market. They've decided to try to make that peace, as I believe at least. Just to see if it's going to be fully developed. Then the labour market parties are about to set out in collective agreements these days, and I don't think it would be appropriate for the Allied to change the rules during the course of at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u118	A respectable president. The current law says about 40 hours of work at 7 g. that this law may be removed with contracts which are confirmed by the partner of an organization, which is, in fact, an international organisation. Iceland's Common Association and the Organization for Employment. The laws they're complaining about do not apply to their contracts anyway. I don't really understand why they should be complaining at all, since the law applies to all the rest of them who give reviews. Of course, it is unfortunate for the organization that those outside of them are in some way ahead of them, but according to their reviews, they are mistaken for one thing in the bill I was trying to explain in my story. When the Law was originally changed, when work time was shortened from 44 to 40 hours, the day's work was not changed. They remained unchanged for 40 hours of work week, i.e. the same salary for shorter hours. That's not expected in the bill. This is, in effect, expected to receive 35 - day hours of work according to the same taxation they received for 40 hours. As we have seen in the discussion, this includes the real change. Instead of necessarily shortening work hours one, two, and three, we will have one day's work hours at work, and in this way people will be raised in wages if they continue to work 40 hours a week about what will last one day's work compared to one overtime hour, which is not very much. Encouraged by this, the work period is reduced by the amount of time needed to maintain the same amount of pay, which takes about 15 minutes or something like that. These are the steps taken in the change when work hours were reduced from 44 to 40. It took 40 years to finally reach 40 hours of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u119	Madam President. Thank you. A foreman for the explanation. Still, he did not quite convince me of my answer, and he may not have expected it, and I still have. Trends in the Labour Code have been very often this way, and I think that applies to the work period, that the situation is that workers in the labour market get together over things, and then the legislators sort of follow and legalize what humans have agreed to do in order to ensure minimum remuneration in the country. It's the system we're based on. I repeat, I am not the desperate need to intervene in that mechanism, at least not at this time, while the most large - scale workers in the labour market and have about the vast majority of their jobs say, and the majority of employees still claim to be working on both shortening work time and changing this arrangement in order to increase their time for families while increasing their production. I think it must be the main challenge, that its fruitage will be increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u120	A respectable president. This is a little debate about the chicken and the egg, and whether it came first, shorter work hours, or increased production; whether before, contracts in the labour market, or legal battles that we acknowledge at the council. Since this bill was submitted first, the requirement for abbreviated week of work has certainly become louder, absolutely definitely. This is in part an opportunity to make them more accessible to many organizations because as they have told us when they have, for example. A meeting to discuss this or another is that abbreviated workweek has been on the table in all collective agreements very quickly. It's been completely out of the map for example. Work and employment organization. At least that's what we've been told, however exact it is, at least has not yet reached the end of the working week's contracts. This is a measure of pressure and support from here on the right change and development of shorter working hours, the greater balance between work and leisure activities, as OECD measures, in which Iceland is very uncomfortable. That is why they are much more likely to be able to get it through in collective agreements now, and then we'd be a bit of a journey with them and we'd probably put it into law at the same time. Wouldn't it be really nice to be in that sort of trouble if you thought about it in that way? Of course, we should be ready for this long period of time, and in the past 40 years, such an increase in production should begin to take steps. At any rate, I look at this as if the problem with the chicken and the egg in that way so that in this case the lawgiver could be quite ahead, at least with this arrangement, where we do not control the raise as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u121	Madam President. Could a possible explanation of how long this will take in dealing with the labour market to some extent be that the matter is more complex than deciding for one, two and three to cut down hours? You're right. A messenger says, this has been a subject, and it is a growing requirement or a growing discussion, let's say, at least. I think you're absolutely right about what you're saying. Transporter. Still, if you are right, you must ask yourself. A messenger said that employers tend to sweep it off the table first, which I have only a word at a time. For: How is it then that such an organization, such as the Democratic Association, which is the largest employee organization in the country, does not jump on this bus and say, "Well, it is fully developed? " We'll never get this through unless the lawgiver comes in? The relationship strongly opposes the fact that the Allied will intervene, so I'm not entirely sure that an explanation might arise. That's why a carrier is standing. Then I would have been inclined to believe that a large employment agency would want the legislator's help to meet that requirement, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u122	Madam President. I'm just going to come into this discussion about thebbreviated week of work. Like what? Not long ago, members of the council of the left host council reported support in the current community demand to shorten the workweek. I have no doubt about the good minds of tourists who present this matter. On the other hand, the contracts of all the largest employment employees are standing at the door, and I want to allow myself to doubt that it is the best time to make a case like this at that point. I find it hard to see in some way that these treat the agreements, although the requirement in itself, for the shortness of the work week, is based on my opinion, i.e. It's a natural requirement and I would always encourage her, and, actually, just to be said, I probably started to write about this case 12 to 15 years ago in the press and I've moved it on in speeches. But what comes with the short - term work week is not only that the workweek is reduced but also that, as I mentioned in a talk the other day, that all kinds of environments and other aspects of society are involved. If we have less time and more time to care for ourselves and our own, are we not more likely to be environmental consumers? We are not more likely to spend more time with our family, etc.? But it is important to remember, and that is absolutely essential, I mean, that, in the labor movement's ideas on these matters, the need is always to shorten the workweek without paying. When people are talking about 37, 35, or 32 hours of workweek, they are talking about that workweek and the same salary. As far as I understand this bill, it's not necessarily being done here, and I think it's, despite the good mind that follows, it's not time to accept this matter now. My opinion is that the labor movement and employers should personally achieve the steps they can achieve and then nail the legal authority down their heels to make sure that no rights can later be negotiated. In fact, I think it's a demarcation, and it's been the very same with the comments and debates that have developed from the mass movement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u123	Mr. President. I listened carefully to the senator's words, and I would like to help him see that right now could be the right time to do this. I'm gonna tell you why I think that's what I'm doing. The case is addressed to the committee. A senator, and he's naturally with an open mind to it. Party dog. A senator, whose left movement has a green offer, is accompanied by a shortening of the workweek to 30 hours, if I heard the media correctly during the days. As the senator says, work hours are reduced, but wages remain in the same place. That's the perfect space that would be good for the collective agreements we're facing. We need to listen closely to what the labor movement and the organization of our industry tell us about their conversation. This is one of the things that can happen. We know that. We've been meeting with the pre-contractors VR and Ephings. We asked: " Is this the right time? It stated that they were not quite sure, but the question was, Should we turn up the bill anyway? The conclusion was that we would make that effort and that they were working on their side as to whether this was the right time. Elevating is e.g. now working on a short work week report and what it would mean, etc. In the power of that information, we could change it when it comes to the committee, to the one that is suitable for work. Perhaps those in a job market are satisfied with a slightly less pay raise, but only a little more time away, allowing their pay to increase and time for work to be slightly shorter. So the pay goes up less than you can. There will be increases in your pocket as well as in some extra hours that people don't have to work at. This could mean less expansion because of the collective agreements, so maybe now is just the time to do this. I hope the senator listens to what comes out of research now done by the unions and takes it into consideration. That's all I believe.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u124	Madam President. You're right next door. A senator says the man standing here is in trouble. The welfare committee and will expect this issue to be discussed. I promise the senator that I will examine the matter with an open mind. That doesn't make any difference because I don't feel that it's the lawman's job now to make decisions or to take steps to direct collective agreements and collective negotiations that are currently in between two parties, i.e. On the one hand, the employee movement and the labour market partners, in a certain direction. That is something that these parties, who are independent of parties, themselves have to decide. If they then turn to the legislatator at some point in their discussion and say, "We have come here--let's say, for example. that through these negotiations, they will not be able to close negotiations unless the legislator or government does a, b or c -- may be right for the government, or after legal cases, to enter. But let them get there first.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u125	I want to agree with what. A senator regarding the need for the State to step in so many areas when it comes to landing contracts today. I think it's crystal clear to everyone. This is one of the things unions are looking at. I believe that when the information and demand of the unions are presented and what is stated in their conversation with the labour market partners, we can begin to live in favor of this in the light of the information, as they come into the committee. I don't believe anything but that. Senators are doing it just fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u126	Madam President. You're right next door. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson to discuss the subject is good, and it's good for the senators to consider these matters. But I reiterate what I said before that I think we can't take these steps right now, I mean now in a very narrow sense, i.e. during negotiations. [[Up front.]] It may be that the reason is right. The senator that the legislature authority or executive authority will somehow step into the collective agreements. Then let the talk begin. We can do our homework and be ready to do it, but I don't think we should predetermine that we're going to do it exactly by means of a verse. It must depend on the wishes of a labour market party regarding the coming of the government to the agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u127	A respectable president. It's nice for people to get reviews from previous councils on the subject. They're all right, especially those from ASI and the firms of industry, the organization that this bill and these laws don't cover. Other comments were received, these were negative comments, and the Organization of professional drivers was opposed, but all others were very involved. One of the reviews received was from the Women's Professional Association that pointed out that it was right to provide the labour market to provide a set lead period for the changes recommended in the bill. Thus, shorter working hours would be more likely to happen in this country. Communicate, says here in a report, and suggest that the law take effect on January 1, 2021. This allows for a longer lead-in period than in previous prime episodes. It may be that this period is not entirely correct for the type of collective agreements arranged in the next cycle or something like that. The committee will likely consider how it works, so I don't see this problem as a matter of course. A senator points out. In addition, he has the correct understanding that the same remuneration for this shorter work is not expected, e.g. due to the administration of a lead-in period to accept the terms of collective agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u128	Madam President. There wasn't a personal question in answer to why. A senator will give more explanation and speculation that I thank for. A senator for the record. That's what it's about, how it's at least The employee movement is now approaching. This is not the way the sender of the bill, but the recipient's movement is approaching. In case of a moment. Senators want to experience themselves in the position of helping out for each other, which I'm not even sure should be our part, at least Not at this point, I don't think it's much help to put in a bill that doesn't work where the labor movement asks for it. Of course, all of us are aware that the market can be negotiated better than the law says. Obviously so, you can make a better deal. Today, the workweek 36 hours or the 32 hours of work week can be completely negotiated. But people haven't made it, and I think this independence right is very important, and that's why we're supposed to sign contracts on the market. I'd like to say that most of the labor movement is the task of reaching phase victories in a desperate struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u129	A respectable president. We work here with the rights of people through law and the like. This bill is not meant to take position, e.g. with the labor movement, employers, or anything like that, it is organized into neutral gear and focused on the rights, such as day - to - day work. Based on the rights we have about 40 hours of work, we are now at the General Assembly, at the legislature meeting, saying that people's rights go to 35 day work hours. Then it is a perfectly right for people to negotiate what it means in collective agreements as well as what it means to have a working period in excess of the day's work hours. We're trying to do this bill to sail the righty sea, and I don't necessarily agree that the labor movement is merely responsible for taking and winning that fight. It is also our role as elected representatives of the city's rights. I don't think it's any more complicated than that. Therefore, the decision to keep the same pay for a shorter work week or in some other way for the job drivers to pay or how they are. Yes, there is no question about this rather than before, but it is to continue the discussion. We're trying to explain something better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u130	Madam President. I thank the senator for the explanation. I may not have come in on it well enough earlier, and that's why I've not understood it that way, and that's why I'm personally committed to being cut short by the workweek, that our goal as a community should be to shorten the workweek. But I am now very busy with the fact that we, as partners, are to take a careful look at the earth to make decisions that can make it harder for either party when it comes to the bargain agreements. Suppose the council decide to hurry up and accept this proposal. Then I fear that we had made a significant mistake for the labor movement because it does not require a five - hour workweek to be paid for 35 hours instead of 40. Its requirements are to shorten the week of work and receive the same amount of pay. If we truly believe that it is a free labour market contract and that the legislature and the government are to support this free agreement, we should first allow humans to land some kind of land and support them with a later legal delivery if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u131	Madam President. In Icelandic labour markets it has been a long period of time, and the goal of this bill to cut work hours is about many of the best goals. I believe, however, there could be a misunderstanding about how the Icelandic labour market works. We have so far assigned the labour market partners to negotiate on these items, purchases, elections and hours, and the General has legalized what has to be established in connection with such collective agreements. Thus contracts in Iceland have a legal value as treaties for minimum employment contracts, regardless of whether individuals or businesses are members of the organisations that then make up the agreements. That's what I think is in itself a much more convenient arrangement than that the lawgiver tells the labour market people what to do in these areas because it often forgets that it is a little more complicated than simply deciding to shorten the work time. Let's watch it for a long time. Since the 40 - hour work week was set, working hours have lasted about 20 hours a week. He spent about 60 hours a week, almost 40 hours a week. It happened slowly. Each person's decision is how the benefits of growing in society are divided between pay and working hours. This has to hold hands. We know that pay increases are limited to the fact that they must hold hands with the long - term inflation and production in the community if too much inflation is to occur. The same is true of short - term work hours. There must be the same space for short - term use or for less pay raise or for more production, so that this will not ultimately result in social expense and inflation. The experience of changing 1971 by law was that it did not change working hours but significantly increased the cost of an enterprise and went directly into the prices, significantly increasing inflation at the time. Granted, it is thus assumed that working hours are simply shorter, not necessarily due to the same amount of pay. Of course, this should be taken into account, but I think it would be much more wise to respect the rules that the labour market members have agreed with and repeatedly pointed out, including: in the reviews of this issue, when it has been established, both by the European Union and the employers' organisation, that it is best agreed on in the labour market at a time. However, there is something that is difficult to include in a discussion in Iceland, and it is about time for work. The workweek is not 40 hours in Iceland in an international comparison. Thirty-seven. It is called active work time and is mentioned specifically in collective agreements. The VR and sectoral organisation agreement states that e.g. in the worktime section to negotiate with 36.5 hours per week without dosing. Add to that an extended dosing interval of 36.5 hours per week. In collective agreements with the employment community, this same work period is defined as 37 hours and five minutes per week. It's the international comparison. When we talk about 37 hours of work a week in the North, it is exactly 37 hours free of food. It's important to keep this up. We do not have a 40 - hour work week when we talk about it in the context that there are 40 hours here compared to 37 hours in the North countries. In both cases, it is 37 hours. When we take the same 37 hours, or 35 hours in France, and compare with us and set the goal of shortening the workweek here, we are actually talking about either as long a week of work, 37 hours of work as it is here, or to shorten it by two hours a week, to 35. I think it's good just to keep this up, because this has been a really long time for this conversation. Although this is a dull, technical point, it is still the statistical fact on the subject. However, it is important, and may be able to give very convincing evidence that there are great opportunities here to shorten your work hours. We'll have to shorten our hours. I don't think there's any doubt about it when it comes to, for example. The fourth technological revolution and activities that will clearly be lost there, etc. that part of our response to the dramatic change and expansion it will bring will have to shorten the workweek and continue the trend over the past few decades. For example, it would be nice to start in this room. We're sitting here -- or standing correctly, some - when it's time to turn 18 and some business still to come, and we'll meet something here after night. As a matter of fact, I don't think I've met a job that has a less balanced balance between work and personal life than just the fine, high, high, spent time together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u132	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u133	Surely, this would be a reason to revise our work schedule, not to necessarily shorten it, but to spread it better over a year, no matter how much we would like to put our arms around it better. Often, it is good to start cleaning up at home. We're scared of overtime. I think there may be some convincing evidence to that effect. The biggest opportunity to shorten the hours of work short-term, of my knowledge, is to change other factors, a somewhat speciality of collective agreements, i.e. how much overtime is in Icelandic collective contracts. This is 80%, but it is very common to see, at least at the first hour of overtime, in the rest of the North countries, in the range of 30 to50% overwork. I think this is one of the reasons we're going to get a lot of overtime. Daywork, on the other hand, is much lower in shallow size or has been in comparison with the rest of the North countries. This has been discussed repeatedly between the labour market parties, but unfortunately it has never been achieved. It's not because of lack of willfulness on the part of the party. I know at least By personal experience, the employment community suggested in its last collective agreements, 2015, that it would be specifically recorded and redefined. It's a complicated subject, it's a lot of thinking, shifting procedures, etc, but I think this change on its own would also reduce the motivation for overtime. Of course, day - to - day pay would increase without necessarily contributing to the cost of a job. I think it's very important to think of such things. Often, simple technical issues in collective agreements are creating what we could call a negative impulse. We call it a workforce in everyday speech, and this is highly endemic in many sectors, that it is absolutely necessary to work one or two overtime hours a day, and even preferably before noon on weekends. This may be the case, if you could put it that way, for a day's work-work week, on a higher foundation then in return. I hope we make progress in that. I think this is of utmost importance to the balance between work and personal life, about the workforce stress, job coldness, etc., as well as about the debate that we have to make a good day's work and not the need to work a lot of overtime. To tell you, I hope the employees of the labour market are doing well in the upcoming agreements to resolve this because I believe clearly there is a job at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u134	A respectable president. According to this bill and its duration, the project is definitely at home there. In the bill, we take the very first step that must be run out of the company of the labour market. Only in terms of inflation in the last shortcut: Reports are due to the fault of inflation, not necessarily abbreviated workweek. It was also the economic growth of four of the five years that followed, reminded me, which may well be attributed to abbreviated workweek. Today's experiments show that people do better work at shorter times at places where they are testing the shorter days of work; and there's more pleasure, quality of life, etc. It is quite true that it is difficult to compare work hours between countries. In Britain it is, for example, U.S.A. different, approx. 50/50, whether time off is included in your work hours, coffee classes, and so on, or not. All we have to compare overall, the best data we have, is OECD data. Then you just have to tap the pillars, maybe not Iceland, because we know how the system is here while other systems are mixed and perhaps not known how the numbers are compiled there. Yet, that is the best comparison we have. So we look to that statistics. I'll take the impulse to work overtime maybe next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u135	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A member of the council is especially opposed to the fact that this is very important to me. A talk about quiet talk is very similar these days. This discussion - on the context of inflation and pay increases, the context of prices targets and production growths, and the framework it allows for spending time to increase each year - is of utmost importance. This is often called panic propaganda during the discussion, but this is just the economic fact that is respected in all our neighboring countries and is, for example, the case. The basis of the Norwegian labour market on both the job drivers and the labor movement, the workforce must work within this range, otherwise we lose our competitiveness toward other countries. That is the simple fact. There's been a total principle in all the other North countries, I'd say, all streets since 1993, that we don't make any more of this space. Some even have lower space. Sweden speaks of 3◯3.5% because their inflation target is to maintain inflation within 2%. This is not panic propaganda, not the masked propaganda of professional drivers, in order to keep underpayers in some way. It has just been demonstrated for a long time by all the most skilled economists in the Western world. There's an obvious connection between them. The reason is simple: The financial cost of society, when we try to simplify our community to a clear picture, is approximately Sixty-five thousand percent of what we take. We can compare this to a home that earns income and calls it 100 - the salary of all the peoples of the country - and the cost of the home is about 65◯70 percent. If we cut this pay by 10% or 20%, this income, which was 100, would have to increase something to live up to, otherwise it will be bad. In fact, this explained to an assistant bank manager quite well this week, so it is very important to maintain this practice. [[The president calls.]] This goes completely into the hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u136	A respectable president. I'm going to argue that no one here protests. What people protest is when members of Congress, tops, fail to submit to this law, and receive much higher percentages. Then, of course, the others come and say, "I'm sorry, why is this law being written on us and not on you? " There is unfairness. That's where the dog lies buried. Let us take this discussion with caution when we are under a two - year - old trial trial, where increases in our wages were relatively recklessly taken. No group at the Council but one, the group I'm in, wanted to change that decision. If they take it to them, they are responsible. It's only for overtime. It's true, too, that the motivation for overtime is a bit big. People get a lot for overtime. However, professional drivers should also be motivated not to provide overtime, since they are expensive in an hour. For some reason, that trigger doesn't work so well, and you could imagine that when the overtime pressure would be lower, people would not be in the overtime business. But just because the day - to - day shoulder is low, people need it anyway. This is a bit of a chicken/an egg problem that definitely needs to be addressed and I think there's a very helpful comment into the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u137	Mr. President. I have to thank you again. A senator special for an interesting answer, this is interesting. To begin with the second point: Yes, it's obvious. There are endless examples of the fact that our overtime resources do not bring back much or very little. There are a number of fine examples of how the decision has been made to change the situation, to pack up the entire work period, to produce the same results, or even more. The key is that it often needs to be handled locally. It's gonna have to be resolved. Often the circumstances of an enterprise vary, often taking into account all kinds of special solutions at the site. That's why I think it's the best thing to do between parties. It is also necessary to redefine this remuneration, i.e. reducing the workload and increasing the day's pay back. I don't think there's any doubt that making a positive impulse to cut work time would help us very much. I have strong faith in positive motivations in such substances. Regarding the highest salary and advice of men. It's very nice to go out in that discussion. If we compare the remuneration rates in the labour market and the remuneration scale of the collective board, as it has been calculated from the time of the advice of a dresser's contract and from the laws of a dresser's previous, 2006, it is found that the employees of the state who are under the Board of Staff - they vary many at any given time and must not forget that it is not just those sitting here or ministers, there are tens and even hundreds of employees at each time in the Board of Management Board and in many countries who do not have the contracts and are allowed to follow the same levels of commitments of the panels - see that the general pay number has increased considerably above the pay number of pay, e.g. in a general labour market. Here's what I'll show you. Senator. And the labour market's pay balance has increased completely in accordance with the labour market salary, which may quite be considered a comparable group when it comes to the average salary, but their salary has increased considerably less than the overall salary in the labour market. [[The president calls.]] It's important to keep this up. But this is certainly true, so there was a very irregular decision about the terms of the sage council, so there is a big difference in time. But from the start to the finish, this is similar to pay development.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u138	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill to legalize a 40 - hour work week from 1971. I want to start by wondering if it is really a good idea to shorten the week of work. I think there are a lot of reasons why there may be a pretty good idea, and I would like to mention three of those whose health - care providers mention on their website, and I think that there is a fine benefit in shortening the workweek. Stress is a common problem, such as anxiety, depression, and musculoskeletal problems. We talked earlier today, for example. Mental health, but Iceland is one of the world's most effective users of antidepressants. In 2015, 17,000 Icelands were out of work markets because of disability, 8.5% of the labor force, and most of them because of mental illness or musculoskeletal problems. That problem just got worse. In general, production is considered low in the Icelandic labour market compared to the countries we compare with. We work long, but we don't necessarily accomplish much. In view of the problem. Councilmen mentioned this fine work as an example we can also ask ourselves, " Do I really deserve more? ' Icelandic children also have a European record in a game school that is a tragic fact and may include some negative factors, health and stress, both children and parents, as well as the like. To say that I like the idea of shortening my work week if it really comes to the end of the working week. On the other hand, I have to say that I'm not very favoring the already existing bill, i.e. taking a law that says about 40 hours of work week. As well as it has been observed, the labour market and the employee parties negotiate and discuss the short days of work, largely on tables there today. Many people have experimented with abbreviated work week. We know about Reykjavíkurburg and other institutions and companies have. In recent years there has been a marked increase in flexibility during work hours. I know some examples from the local community I live in, Mosfellstown, where the workers were put to work on Wednesdays to increase the availability of the people in the ministry, whereas the work period was cut short on Fridays. This was done until one year, and it was a pleasure with employees and so has continued. To say, I think it's important that the way full-time work is graded, a monthly wage, depends on the ones making a deal on the market. I have to say, in view of the fact that this bill has happened before, and there have been a lot of debates that I don't remember to be so often that we get reviews from the ASI, the Association of Business Life and Business Councils that agree with it, but that's exactly the case with this ideal bill. All the members agreed that the goals could be good, but this would be the premature intervention of the legislature in a review of the labour market between the labour market partners and that would be their agreement. I'm a big fan of the fact that we're doing a little work in our legal collection, so I'm wondering if the 40 - hour workweek law, No. 88/1971 are absolutely unnecessary. Perhaps there would have been reason to suggest a change of law that would involve taking the law out, removing it. We also have a new protection law, No. 46/1980 and may have changed extensively. They are about equipment, method of loyalty, and security at work. I think it's very important for the lawgiver to set such rules. Recent news reports and discussions in the community show that it is very important that there are clear laws on work protection and that they are followed with full intensity. I want them to point. Councilmen who suggest that if the bill had to be legal, it would no doubt have to look to law No. 46/1980 because this includes pointed to 40 hours of work, especially when it comes to the work of children and teenagers, it is set to a maximum, and more employees at a job market. The law on which we are considering changes does not contain too many articles, they are really few. They depend on a 40 - hour [40 - hour - a - day workweek, which can certainly be negotiated from time to time, and in reality only the requirement to work more than 40 hours a week should be paid for overtime. I'm also attracted to holiday days, which is, I'm sure, too, in other legislations and is quite enough. The holidays mentioned in this fine bill are for the preparation of Christmas Day and New Year's Day, when it is only a holiday day from one o'clock in the day. I wondered if there was anything we should consider. I believe that many people are in a privileged position like us and never work on Christmas morning or early morning, and most of the workplace can close at that time. The question is, Is it not reasonable that those who do services and others in places where there is a reason for opening the door at that time will be paid overtime all that day or then? Then I wondered about the summer vacations and vacations of employees, in view of the fact that we've been discussing the work market and the elements. When young children are in high school, your child is dressed to take a set of days of vacation each year, both for summer vacations and for days and so on. Normal people can't cover that time with their vacation license. I think it's a good reason to look at this, but once again I think that's the main point that the labour market party is to negotiate and especially look into. A respectable president. I think I've done some serious research on what I wanted to say. Again and again, I think the workweek's shortening is a pretty good idea, mainly of which I think the balance between work and personal life is a very good idea. At this workplace, we see that the balance is very low when it comes to these things, but it was also our choice when we volunteered for work here. In view of the fact that those members of the workforce who have given a review of the bill are considering an undesirable intervention, I think we should allow the labour market to take that up at its own level and agree on it. I think often and often it'd be nice to shorten your workweek. It may also be that a degree of flexibility is more suitable for people, more time for vacation or vacation time and other activities. But their primary concern is, not necessarily ours with some law instructions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u139	A respectable president. There was a chance to think of this as some sort of disfellowshipping. The purpose of this is, of course, to achieve the balance mentioned between leisure and secular work. Somehow, it had to be placed somewhere in place, but at the same time, it is the most simply place to do so. That is why the increase in pay that was built into the old law is not exactly being canceled. The thought is an increase of rights, so I don't think it's quite right to call this premature intervention, because that's the goal. Maybe it's not the right way to get it that way. There may be other ways to get it through other laws as well. A senator mentioned. This seemed the most direct and simply the most direct way to achieve a more balanced goal between leisure and work hours, anyway, from the Lawgiver. The bill was set up in such a way that their content was not intervention in human agreements and into the civil rights of the people, just because the most opposed people are not bound by these laws. They can make a deal, even if we would turn it down to 35 hours a week, and then their total contracts will be open to 37 and they won't have to live by these laws. That law is still in this law. It is true that we are on the privileged position, not working on Christmas Eve, and I agree with it. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, we're not doing exactly this work here in the summer. There could be an extended meeting for the summer and the hearings in particular, not cutting the Senate, so that the committees could continue in the summer to work on matters that would then be ready at the fall council, but, of course, we are at the full office even if there are no meetings and committee meetings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. A senator may have reminded me of the reason why I really wanted to participate in the discussion when he spoke the case - the time was right for the walk of eight, one evening last week, to remember - but I was not in a position to be able to sign them. But that was exactly the case. A senator was describing, and I would have liked to respond to him, and I'd better understand, i.e. that even if we were changing the law, it would not affect a person, for they did not really have to do so. Then I wonder, " What is the law for? ' That's where I think the basic question is, and I'd like to encourage you. A welfare committee, I guess, is she not the one who gets the case to see if it would just be the solution to breaking down those laws? Hv. A senator points out that this is not really a raise. The report, if I correctly understand it, is still talking about people keeping their salary but they need less work. I couldn't understand it any other way. Hv. A senator spoke of this as not really an intervention. But it is now that the people outside the market use that word, I think I'm definitely following it, in their reviews that there is a premature intervention in their negotiations at the time of this appointment and that it may not be the same time as we're looking forward to now when we know that one of the biggest jobs in the winter will be that they all get together and what it really means to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u141	A respectable president. This comment is precisely answered, since transporters indicate that in comments at 13. track No. 97/1995, which became 75th par. The Constitution states that by order of 2 mg. if the legislators are obliged to ensure that legal rights in this field will be given a measure of strength. However, it is not further recommended that any aspects of this procedure be taken by law. This will not be seen in the legislation on the length of the work week, as there are laws about 40 hours of work. If so, they should be in violation of this article. So I don't see the problem that this premature intervention or violation of contract rights, or something like that, is applicable in this case, at any rate, on the basis of the constitution. Overall, this production and this discussion are half of the objective of providing the bill, i.e. to get this discussion started here and to reach the goals set out by the bill, whether it will be by this legislation or by other means. This discussion, I think, is very helpful in reaching that goal. I look forward to it, and I thank you for the extra. A senator brought in this leave of summer and all these days of work--this is more of the bullshit, I must say. I was working in a nursery over 20 years ago, and there was a man working in the summer. There were no skiing at a certain time, and these were the best times; fewer kids and fewer employees - perhaps in some way inexorably, but the work was much better when it was not so crowded.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. Once again, a senator resists. This may have revealed what I thought I had read through the bill, that it might be the first thing I wanted for you to do. To bring this matter to the attention of members of Parliaments and to discuss it. I'm going to state that it's not my opinion that even if there's a bill here and a statement from the source and they're not negative, they're not to be discussed. I'm the self-employer of one such bill, and it's our decision, of course, what we're talking about here at the Senate Hall and the Senate court is putting in principle, so it doesn't get misunderstood at all. Many have also made very positive comments about the bill. Then I think people are primarily giving positive comments about how the workweek is getting shorter. Whether these laws need to be modified is a question we need to ask specifically. I'm going to thank you too. A senator for bringing in my much interested subject, which is the management of high school, the essential parenting institutions as well as the services. Whatever it is. A senator mentioned, and I had used my speech, to ski on vacation, which, of course, does not mean that children do not benefit from going to summer vacations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u143	At a certain time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u144	I think it's part -- exactly, at a particular time -- of every family's right to decide when it will be appropriate for the family to take a vacation, whether it is appropriate to take it continuously for three, four, or five weeks, or less at the second time of the year. Of course, rural society and management school should take pride in offering a good service that meets all the conditions we meet for the nursery, which are certainly also educational institutions without having much intervention in the lives of families. Finally, I'd like to mention one thing, because I specifically mentioned Christmas Day and Old Year's, that I only present an interest in taking part in the work if it comes to an idea of changing such legislation. Then you can also wonder, I know that some senators have mentioned December 1 especially because of the occasion, whether it is a festival day that is generally not an ordinary day of work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u145	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion in moderation, but I'm going to put it into general terms. There have been excellent tips on consultation with the labour market partners and employment partners. I do not take a stand for them in myself, but I remind them that it is also the role of the Generals to create the community's rights and rights of the citizens. The General Assembly has a history of such legal procedures from the fact that this was a period of wake - up in 1921 C.E. All of us agree that it was very acceptable to the Council. They were not made by law without a fierce fight against them and, in effect, a struggle with the will of many builders. This issue has come about because there is a problem. It is a national problem that may be described as working longer than any other country they would like to compare with, but their production is smaller. This is a problem that has obviously been wrapped up in the labour market's partners to solve so that both the products will improve and the lives of the people who are prepared for improvement. There are all kinds of reasons for this. They are historical and cultural, and perhaps for centuries they have been here for the instigation of slavery. We have had the tendency to measure people's worth with hard work and hard work and their hard work. We still recommend, I think, a bit of hard work and hard work, and now we speak the words of being in the workplace. This presence sometimes wants to reflect itself in a sense of urgency. In fact, people may linger late in the day, so to speak, working in the overtime hours what they could have even finished much earlier. As we have seen, in a matter of course. The senators before me, have been guarding a particular overtime application. This is because the day's work is all too low and people have to make more money with overtime, as well as a good way to work long. There seems to be effort. We know that here too. It's such a labor economy we still have here. It's a hard-hitting mechanism. We need to save valuables, full of fish, and we need to get it done right away. In that way, we even perform laws here at this workplace. But Iceland is 33th of 38 countries in comparison with the balance of work and personal life. This is according to the multiannual report OECD. It is also to be careful that this limit between work and personal life is always becoming more indistinguishable with these equipment we have, i.e. We're at work for as long as we have our smartphone. We even have our smartphone next to us at night. Then we may wake up and grab him and be mad at work. In some way, this may be the case, and it is our job too. It's not just a deal between the labour market parties. There are many arguments that I may not have to go into here, which recommend minimizing hours, shortening an event at work, and many others. Senators have taken steps before me. These are health - related arguments, and these are family arguments. These are arguments that lead to a good life, and these too are reasons to produce. This OECD report shows that a correlation exists between the apparent increase in shorter working days simply leading to increased production. Nations with a very long working week, such as The Greeks, working one of the longest weeks of work, are in place of 8 countries that have the least production. For the most part, countries that do most of their jobs per year are listed at the top of 10 lists of the most producing nations. Some of these have had some talk about the labour market partners and the need to consult with them. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and SAI had agreed in their comments and contrary to them. However, one organization that has otherwise spoken and applied itself may be forgotten, which is the BSRB, who has, on the contrary, fought for abbreviated week of work. That's exactly what they're talking about on the Web site, by permission of a president: The address of the BSRB is to shorten the workweek from 40 hours to 36... It is not enough, but it is true that BSRB, along with Reykjavíkurburg, has been on top of a very big experiment on abbreviated week of work, without a lack of pay, well - meaning, starting 2015 at two centres and increasing to six autumn 2016. In 2017 a new milestone was set up, with all the city's work stations being invited to participate. That milestone began this year, in February 2018. More than 100 places have applied and are now participating in this project, with 2,000 employees of nearly 8,500. These places shorten the work week by one to three hours a week and most about three hours. In the first phase, most had a four - hour shortcut per week and so it is planned that this project completes 2019. BSRB has also been running a national experiment project in four state institutions, and in April 2018, the town government decided to prepare a project like this. The same can be said of the majority of Akureyri. There have already been indications that are very promising of this. It has reduced mental and physical symptoms of stress. That's an added pleasure. The effects of shortening are greater than those of the staff initially expected. This is an increase in flexibility in people's lives and has reduced short - term illness. What may be most important in this regard is that this has had a good effect on domestic equality. Fathers have become more involved in domestic chores and have become more active members of their children's lives. In both terms and in view of the need for women at times in flexible hours, this is also an equal case. After all, I believe this is a progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u146	Mr. President. I have to commend Pirata members for being patient and not giving up because this will be the fourth time the bill is submitted, which is a fine price. However, I feel similar to many others who have come and criticized the material bill, i.e. I have considered that the work time regulations are the same as the terms on the salary of collective agreements, although they may come to us if necessary, to strengthen the foundation of the collective labour agreements. That may be a reasonable approach. On the other hand, I think that if we take up the job as a general task force in a general labour market, we're actually taking over the workforce, the role of employers'union, and the company of employees, because there's a relationship, of course, between working hours and those of the men and women of the team. As a result, I agree with what was stated in the National Association of Employment on the bill for the first or second time, that it is important for the General to respect the role of these organizations, the remuneration of employees, the participation of professional workers, the respect for their ability to lead them and make decisions about how to make changes, about buying and buying, and so that we should not take any action at any point in the time when they are before or when they are in progress. It is often claimed that work hours in Iceland are unusually long. It is in such matters as others that humans can perform statistics in various ways and even get substantial results from the same database. The number of hours spent in this country each year is far from abnormal or higher than the number of hours spent in countries around the world. After all, we are actually lower than most other countries with regard to many hours of work. You see, in collective agreements people do more than negotiate hours and wages, e.g. About holiday rights and moaning around here more than in most places. Of course, there are more extreme holiday rights in some other country, but it is rift here compared to most of the other countries we compare with. It's 2830 days, and besides that, we've got eleven and a half days off. We must take this into account. Based on the figures I have since 2017, I don't have a new one, comparing hours of work according to law and collective agreements in Europe, Iceland has 1,632 hours a year. In Denmark, there are 1,635, Germany, 1,651, Sweden, 1,666, and Hungary with 1,840 and France. So we're about the same age, at least On this scale, we walk and happen in the North countries, even the Norwegians are just above us. I don't know if I noticed wrong when it happened. A 1st carrier, Ben Leví Gunnar's Gunnarsson, was upset earlier, saying that this bill did not work to raise the pay expenses of the employers or would not have the effect to increase the pay of hours at work. I can see why. A senator shakes his head, which is joyous because it surprised me, as the report shows. That's my misunderstanding. Then we are faced with a decision to reduce our hours according to law to 35 hours, to maintain the holiday rights laid out in collective agreements, and to make a legal holiday decision that we are deciding to raise the cost of pay by 14%, something like that. Now it doesn't matter. A senator shakes his head quickly and often, this means an increase in pay because, of course, the fact is that the production of employment is not going to increase with a pen dash or a ruling force at the General Assembly. If you think it would be simple to increase and improve the standard of living. If we could make a decision to increase 10 percent next year, our work would be relatively simple. Sadly, though, the fact is that it cannot be done. When people talk about the success of the workers in Iceland being less than in controlled countries, they are not entirely reasonable because they are comparing them and using overassessments during hours of work, but not taking into account, for example. that there are paid coffee classes, etc. ... thatspreadsitthem. The production of the work force gradually increases in various ways. We're creating new technologies, new tactics. We plan our jobs in a better, more reasonable way, etc. and that's how we're gonna be successful. But I am more concerned that in the decades to come, we will face one of the greatest challenges we have ever faced. The fact is, we're growing old as a nation. More and more are out of work markets. We have failed to prevent the incidence of disability. I think I've pointed out earlier that when my daughter, 19 years old, becomes as old as I am today, the danger is - because the number of those outside the labour market keeps growing, the birth rate continues to decrease, we've reached 1.7 from something about 4 in 1960 when I'm born - is that she's going to have to accept that the largest part of the growth and high value gains that have developed while she was at work, we can't go to improve her or her peers, but have to go to pay and pay for the health, public security, school, the common projects that we all agree that we have to face with the challenge to form. I think maybe we should use our time in this room to consider, for the sake of us, our children and grandchildren, how we're going to ensure that in the coming decades, technology progresses and the growth of the products and values that are here so that young people today can look forward to living in a better standard of living than we do today, that they will receive most of the growth and increase in values that will occur in the years to come. You see, there is a real danger, although I'm not gonna paint the devil on the wall because we can do things to prevent it, that my generation of children can become the first generation in the long history of Iceland, which will be no better than the generation that came before. That challenge will not be solved by a 35 - hour work week.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u147	A respectable president. I'd like to mention a few things. In a speech or two. A senator came to realize that the pay for abbreviated week of work was not being raised. I thought it was a common understanding when I was nodding, and then it shows up with the 14% increase. 40 divided by 35 is a 14% increase necessary to a particular person in the employment community, which reminds me, was talking about the increase if the day's work would be the same for 35 hours of work week as for 40 hours of work week. It's not part of this. This change is a definition of a number of day hours. It doesn't change the pay, i.e. An employee who now works eight hours a day in a day's work schedule would leave seven hours a day for work and one hour a day for overtime. The changes do not happen so quickly that suddenly an hour is gone. They happen slowly, as we have seen in the change in the law from the shortened workweek 44 down to 40. It took many years to reach that goal. Granted, if employers do not really respond to this increase by shortening this one hour, 15 minutes, or something like that, they will pay for just a shorter period of work on that day. This is gradually won toward 35 hours of work week. It is not changing with a single pen dash that people suddenly start working five hours less. They're changing the definition of how many hours of work are in one work week.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u148	Mr. President. It's fine that we're starting to understand each other, so, in fact, this bill, with all due respect for everyone, is about to add one of the little girls, as we called, to get one butt for overtime. It is not intended to improve any benefits, but instead of spending an hour each day working on the job, the employee goes to a follow-up set. Why don't we just allow the firms of employment and the heads of the employee organisation to come to an understanding of how they want to secure and secure improvement in the coming years? There are some ways. I know professional society has even. suggest reducing the number of overtime hours and trying to get overtime in the day - to - day work, that is one way, and that overtime be paid in the day's work in that way. I don't think it's our job to put in front of the private employees and the employees and decide in the way that this bill is proposed. I can agree with the goal that short - term work weeks are desirable, thereby increasing the time that people spend with their family or their interests, that is desirable, without other purchases and benefits. I think we'll have the opportunity to do it in the future if we keep things straight, but I want them to do what is bearable and to have a much better sense of these things than I and I. þm. Björn the Leví of Gunnar. [[The president calls.]] Let's promise them we'll do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u149	A respectable president. They continue to have perfect rights to negotiate the length of the day's work surface and the work surface. There's nothing complicated about it. We are in this symposium and at a council with the tweets here and there to vote on people's rights back and forth. We have equality laws and rights in the constitution. We'll split up. The labour market partners may find themselves in the same situation as regarding, for example, the workforce. Misuse on the basis of sex or otherwise? We did the same payoff a few years ago. Was it an intervention in a chicken struggle, too? We're working with people's rights around here all the time. This is a definition of how many hours of work per week are considered rights. What that means, in the form of a purchase and a gerbil, is the freedom of the contract. It's no intervention, it's a simple definition of rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u150	Mr. President. I'm not going to have a word with what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear about the same salary. My opinions on this are available in the news. I accept the solemn requirements of the Constitution, e.g. About the freedom of the agreement, and I believe it is unnatural, unreasonable, and almost undefeated that we in the Assembly Hall will intervene as the nature of a business agreement should be between the free parties in the business world, i.e. the union of remuneration and the company of professionals. We may feel that the workweek should be only 35 hours. It's okay. I have a what? A senator, however, does not intend to make a decision on the behalf of employees or professional drivers that a day's work should be defined as 35 hours. It may well be that in the coming agreements, it is the wisest thing to plan for 35 hours a week or 32 hours a day's work, but let's promise people in free contracts to reach that conclusion. I don't believe anything but that. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson agrees with me in that we do the best and wisest thing in respecting the freedom of the people's treaties. It's a matter of freedom of the agreement and that we don't have an abnormal interference here with the collective agreements that go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u151	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the discussion. Senators. There were a number of ways in which we should take care to get to the ground, go to inflation, and compare working hours between countries, how the force for overtime varies from country to country, where overtime loads are more in some places and less in other places, and what it means for employers to call for overtime or overtime workers to wait for overtime. The pay scale was reviewed, which is a somewhat distorted arrangement but can be used to compare two groups together. Deliberation of law was considered. I would like to suggest that it also be thought of changing the terms of the law, that they simply had laws about hours of work, not necessarily a law of 35 hours a day or a 40 - hour work week. And then work protection. The most widely spoken case was the accusation that free contracts were being taken. My answer is very simple: We often work with a set basic rights in this room. What are the basic rights of people? People are free to negotiate anything beyond that. In this case, certain rights are being set to define the number of hours each day. What exactly is the definition of day-work time, what it means, is not presented here. That definition is still in the range of those in the labour market, each day's work surface, where the overtime load is. They may come to realize that with less - than - a - day work hours, the day's work is reduced - or higher, who knows? That's totally up to their freedom of deal. The objective here is righting. We come in on that stage every day with NAPA contracts, that it's become an obligation to provide NPA services, as well as basic-school services. Our health system, e.g. So do I. There are many factors that others could completely handle. What we take care of is: Where is the foundation on which others must build? It may be true that in this case the end of the workforce by 32 hours of workweek after the collective agreements. But the foundation would still be 35, considering what we could decide here. I went over and is reviewing it in the report how you cannot see that this will go against the 75th par. The Constitution of the Treaty, for which the purpose is not to go. That's not the point at all. I understand that it is difficult to try into exactly how this thing falls into place, both because of the 40 - hour work week, the shorter it was from 44 hours to 40 hours. There was definitely an intervention in collective agreements, after considering it was a very strict legal arrangement. But this is a completely different approach. I wanted to propose an 8. the current law would be canceled. There was some doubt as to what that meant with regard to various factors, so I would present the committee as to page 8. you have to leave or if it can be. Therefore, the time of the bill is increased; the labour market partners are allowed space to achieve this right change in their collective agreements. Only in this way should it be an intervention, not in the collective agreements, but in clear message that these are people's basic rights. It is very important to consider something for whom we work at the council. Aren't we representing the voters, the people who choose us to be members of the council? Is our authority not clear in that issue? Why is taking care of such matters limited to employees and professional drivers? Has it not often been an intervention, much more than this, the procedure of a strike? What is that other than an intervention in a dress interview? Those members of Congress who have identified this as a serious intervention in the terms of freedom of agreement are not necessarily innocent of their own, or of their classes, being involved in the intervention of dress interview in that way. I've been up here on top of these things. I'm not supposed to mention it with a teacher, but I was a senior at a high school, a teacher's job. There was a law on the strike on the grounds that if treaties were not reached, the sentence would fall. The climax of the procedure was very clear. Payors were required, not teachers. The maximum, the maximum of what could be returned, has been completed. As a result, contracts were reached, with threats. How is that not an intervention for the freedom of the contract? This is by no means an intervention of the contract freedom, and I'm trying to explain it so that it gets the right way by saying that the pay does not automatically increase compared with the shorter day job period, which should do it fairly clearly, by showing that the time period is the bed to give people the opportunity to take into account the change in contracts and by answering queries when they come here. I hope that a welfare committee will handle the situation well and look forward to seeing again the comments of the Association of Employment, when it is becoming clearer that it is not a day's work schedule for a short day's workweek. I look forward to hearing the comments of ASI, especially after the next district convention. Maybe there'll be some changes, I don't know. I look forward to hearing reports from other sources and as many as possible. I encourage everyone to post a review of the case in order to encourage our senators to achieve at least the goal of shortening the workweek, to get more balance between work and privacy, because that is the obvious problem the bill is designed to solve. Whether this bill is precisely solved, I don't know, maybe a better way, but it's very clear: to improve the ratio between work and personal life, that we have more time for ourselves, for friends, relatives, children, and interests. This is very clear in the data we examined in OECD, which is the best data we have on it. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson used some numberoms for hours in the North countries that don't quite rhyme with OECD's work hours and not the number of hours I had received through the Public Information Service. I'm not quite sure where his sources came from. OECD's work hours and the hours I received from the Public Information Service. I'd love it if he sent the warrant he's got for them workaholics to do. The welfare committee. Other than that, I thank you very much for the discussion. I hope it helps to reach the goal, whether the bill makes it all the way or not. At least we won't stop trying.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u152	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993, and device law, No. 70/1998. Transporters, along with the people listed here, are the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Smári Mccarthy, Elíasdóttir Fjordur's daughter, and Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson. In simple terms, the aim of a bill is to increase the freedom and autonomy of the manufacturers to the marketing of their products on national and national markets. This includes some. The procedure to eliminate a covenant order that applies to the milk industry in terms of the exception of competitive legislation and to reduce the involvement of the government of prices, production and processing. Of course, we do well to consider these matters: Food prices in this country are considerably higher than those in our neighboring countries. A family of four can be expected to pay about 80,000 dollars. more for food every month than for comparable families in the North countries. This corresponds to the need for this same family to have over 400,000. in additional salary per month to cover only this additional cost of food. When we compare food prices here and in the North countries, we immediately see that most of this price prices are in the very least competition on the market, i.e. In domestic farms, meat and milk. At the same time, we provide considerable concentrations of agricultural value. It is important to support this important profession. In this way, we spend more than 16 billion annually on direct supply to the agricultural sector and probably another in indirect support in the form of transport fees, tolls, or other restrictions on the free import of agrienvironments. I think it is important to make a clear statement before continuing in this discussion that it is not the intended target of this bill to weigh the farmers in this country. On the contrary, we feel that increasing competition, increasing the freedom of farmers to produce, processing, and marketing of their own products could significantly change the future development of agriculture in this country, that increasing competition with agricultural products on national markets with the support of the state, as we have been, results in increased production in this article as we know from other employment sectors, where free competition and invigorating much more opportunities for the production and marketing of their products, whether in our country or abroad. It is interesting to compare the sectors here in a country where we have built a significant limit to free competition, which can be identified in both the milk industry and the meat industry, where we have both excluded the articles to some degree of competitive law, where we have permitted significant cooperation with products, in fact, to be consulted in the sense of competitiveness, and the joint organization of markets, and then again compared with other factors, what you would call agriculture, such as Vegetarian. It may even be said of beer farmers in this country, for domestic beer production and the development of domestic beer products from domestic raw, domestic agricultural products has been abundant. It has become a major and rapid product development, although it is generally not without shock, as in the case of vegetable farmers who had to adapt to a completely different competitive environment by extracting the import limit, the import card valid for 2004, if I recall correctly, but were replaced with increased direct support. It has become a major product development, and in reality it will be only that this article has been successful in coping with a changed competitive environment at this time. This is in harmony with what we have experienced here in a number of other sectors over the years and decades. The Icelandic industry was through a substantial conversion of our entry into EFTA and their execution of the European labour markets that were then valid for industrial products. However, from that time on, a powerful and prosperous domestic industry developed, but it was certainly changed from what had previously been known. A competition is not a threat to domestic production, but it is certainly a challenge in many cases. It requires that we increase production, that we find ways to make things more practical today than yesterday, that we find ways to develop products that will meet consumer needs in a better way than we have achieved, and so on. But one thing is entirely consistent when it comes to competition, a marked difference in prices of that product or service over a longer period of free competition in the market and in the product or service that is subject to a highly competitive limit. We can mention such factors as food production, mail service, and other factors in which we have made significant limits to free competition, and we can see that prices are rising in these products or services far beyond the general price raise. That's how it is, for example. When it comes to the milk industry in this country, although we have allowed very much cooperation, even consultation, and management in the article, for the advantage that you would expect both consumers and manufacturers, especially farmers, to have developed milk since they took effect, in 2004, to be considerably higher than the increase in index prices without housing at the same time, considerably above the general increase in food prices in the country, e.g. a large excess of common drinking products, for example. At least these competitive goals have yielded no benefit to consumers. Of course, if we look only at the bill itself, farmers must be looked at in the current law as having a very special position that will be compared to employees in the service of public and branch offices. To help improve the quality of farmers, a rule must be made that enables them to work and market their own products, which are highly restricted today, thus enabling farmers to work as professional drivers and thus benefit from running their farms into open markets. The bill of this is therefore suggested that the European Commission and the European Commission submit to the European Commission and the European Commission of the European Union, the European Commission, the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Environment Agency, the European Parliament, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, and the European Environment It's a little interesting to wonder at which other markets we would think of taking up an arrangement, such as the prices of the European Commission have. It would be appropriate for us, e.g. in the fuel market or in the grocery market that we have some sort of food prices prices merited by stakeholders, e.g. Businessers and immigrants in food, sat down together on how to sell the goods to consumers? That's what I think we like to think of in most other markets. In this case, I think the price - price board has long become a child of its time, and it is important to consider a new arrangement. It is also suggested that authority be canceled to make predetermined manufacturing requirements for products or for individual production products. Furthermore, according to Article 71. agricultural negotiations to negotiate between prices for milk production and dairy products. The law of No. 85/2004, the change in production, prices and sale of farms, no. 99/1993. At the same time, economic problems consisted of most areas of agriculture, largely due to adverse business modules and legalities, obliging products and the milk industry to balance national facilities for individual agricultural facilities and distances from the largest markets. The number of new products in the milk industry has fallen substantially, and much economic resources have taken place for the 13 years that the law has been used in the agricultural industry. To ensure competition for milk markets and thus contribute to innovation and product development, it is necessary to ensure access to the raw milk/unbound milk in free language. There are many opinions of the Contestance Board as to how and how to interpret them. This bill is suggested to eliminate important exceptions from competitive laws that have been approved by special regulations. If the bill is legalized, the key causes of conflict that have existed as a result of the application and interpretation of exceptions from competitive legislation in the agricultural industry are being solved. Then it is suggested that warrant be removed for price balance according to Article 85. A cubby in accordance with the decision of the Ministers of the International Business Agency in December 2015 to cancel exports. The main ingredient of the bill can be said to be divided into two chapters. Chapter I suggests changes in the purpose of agricultural legislation, which sharpens the importance of agricultural free competition. The chapter also recommends that the manufacturer establishes principles of agreements on the basis of the law, although it is permitted that either Iceland's Bavors would assign their answer to or establish other organizations for that purpose. It will then remove the law's law that treaties should be binding on the manufacturers of that country, whether they are partners in Iceland's Farm Organization or outside, and rather force contracts on the basis of the law to be binding only for the producers who consider to be parties to each contract, i.e. Manufacturers or farmers themselves have complete freedom of agreement with their own products. The chapter suggests some wording changes in the law to match the position of all the manufacturers, whether members of the National Institutes of Iceland, other organizations, or non-particical organizations. At that point, the price - price agreements are suspended, as stated earlier, and the labour market agreements. The purpose of this is to reduce the central control of prices and increase the independence of farmers and the market manufacturer. Achieving the prices of the agricultural sector will also help to improve the growth of the agricultural sector. Along with the change, it is also appropriate to establish bones that strengthen farms, contributing to the growth of innovation and better use of land and quality. Il. section of the bill is then proposed to remove the European Commission contracts and provide changes to reduce the effectiveness of Iceland's National Farmer Association as representative of the manufacturers for negotiations and negotiations with the State. 14th degree. The bill also stipulates the growth of agricultural support and the State Fund for environmental protection, innovation, forestry, sealing of forward operating operations, the development of microindustries and tourism. If this bill becomes legal, start working together with the Agriculture Fund and the AVS research Fund in a common and powerful Food Fund. Such a change would result in saving the cost of management and overcrowding the funds that could be used directly for innovation in the food sector, especially in the innovations of farmers. The recent changes are extensive, but in the opinion of the carriers of the bill, there is a fall for improvement in the interests of Icelandic farmers and for the well - being of market competition, both farmers and as well as the benefit of consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u153	V.E.G. President. Reading this bill brings much to mind. At first, I wondered, " Why on earth is a farmer so rewarded with a joint agreement made by farmers? ' What makes a person feel that they want to break down the agricultural social systems and face farmers together? The aim is to increase the freedom and autonomy of the manufacturers for the marketing of their products on the national and national markets. In order to achieve this, we want to remove existing law that the terms of agriculture will be in line with the terms of other classes. Instead, tourists want farmers to compete on free markets. In fact, the arrangement will be laid down, and the community will only be able to negotiate on behalf of farmers who choose to be members of the community. [[The president calls.]] Are we going to negotiate with each farmer or with the other? Can be formed by major manufacturers in the southern part of the country, etc.? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. We are not rewarded with a farmer's contract or the Farmer's Convention on Farming, but it may be completely normal in modern society that the right of the contract lies with the farmer and decides whether to participate in the entire group of farmers or not. When you look at this environment, and that may be the problem with the groundwork discussion, it is difficult to determine whether we look at farmers in the state as employees or as professional employers. I choose to watch farmers as independent working professional drivers who are perfectly free to share such a business as they themselves choose to do or stand outside such organizations if they choose to do so. This is, in fact, the main thing that is being opened up to the possibility, that farmers themselves are allowed to carry their own contract rights, a contract offer, but, of course, they also have the right to hide the agreements of organizations such as the Farmers, but they have the freedom to choose between them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u155	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Truly, farmers are the farmers and their own farms, but farmers also have a wide range of roles in maintaining their country's settlements and are truly the inmates of the country's culture, a particular culture that we all attend, e.g. In the fall, and the family's ready are cornerstones all over the country. How can this help to maintain the entire country? How are we individually expected to have a contract with the producers? Isn't there a tendency for men to come together and thus enter the contract? - It's way too short. Then I'd also like to bring it to the award board. Do people want it laid down? We're paying the same price for milk all over the country, weren't it for the benefit of consumers? What would that be like for consumers? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u156	Mr. President. I reiterate that this is primarily a matter of hiding freedom from farmers to take the premeditation of their own agreements, they choose it, or they commit organizations to do deals on their behalf. This should not be excluded, e.g. with increased freedom of independent activity, which we have considerable opportunities to expand, room for farmers to earn their own products, jobs or markets under their own standards, that farmers can create a most interesting opportunity for themselves. It's just as we can see in all other industry, job drivers are creating a unique position with their products under their own brands often and frequently. And their opportunities are equally applicable in agriculture than in other sectors. It is true that the foundation is built in the country, and we are not referring to any change in the support or support environment of the article, not at all, but primarily to change the degree of the situation and its competitiveness. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We believe that this gives farmers greater opportunities for innovation and for improvement in their own interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u157	A respectable president. Here is a very interesting bill that, as the report says, has to increase the freedom and autonomy of the manufacturer's products for the marketing of their products on national and national markets. This includes some. to eliminate a special agricultural policy that applies to the milk industry and to reduce the share of the government's prices, production and processing. Yet, all rights to make decisions should be made by the farmer's organization and brought to minister. Where is that freedom? What freedoms are being acquired? On the one hand - this is so fast to pass - I'd like to ask the movers what they meant to put in the marketed plant, as stated in Article 10. The bill. Will there be such a deforestation, and what is the limit?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u158	President. Thank you. Senator. If we begin at the second point, what is a market manager, of course, it is a known term in competitive rights and is defined by competitive authorities for each market. I'm not prepared to answer in advance where the final limit of the market organisation's production would be. It would likely be shaped by competitive authorities when things came to their attention. But the idea behind the building of market markets is exactly to promote free competition in both the farmers themselves, as in this case, and the producers and consumers for the benefit. This town is not taking some form of authority from the National Institutes. It is simply granting farmers the freedom to choose whether or not they will turn their invitation to the Farmer Association. [[The president calls.]] However, governments certainly make administrative decisions in these matters, as in all other markets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u159	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. But then I want to continue. According to this, the price of farming will be given free, and then each one will be able to negotiate for the price of the product. What, then, about the government support? Will the representatives of the bill, the minister of the bill, negotiate with each manufacturer for state strength, or shall one go over all of that? Or will they abandon their Kingdom power? We have a micromarket here in production, and although all freedom will be granted to compete in a global market, the Icelandic milk market is rolling about 24 billion, the company that defends 10th among the products of the world's milk industry is on a pair with the Icelandic state. It is a question of how Icelandic farmers should take advantage of that freedom and footprints in that environment, such as the United States. or here, when it comes to Icelandic markets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u160	Mr. President. Whenever it comes to the field discussion, the fear of free competition seems to be very evident. This is not to speak of any change in agrienvironmental development, except for one thing, perhaps trying to make a direct relationship between farmers and state over how they are protected. We have not proposed any change in its amount of money, not at all, and really support the agricultural support system in terms of the importance of supporting a small branch in a difficult international competition. Similarly, there is no evidence of changes in the customs environment of the article in this bill, and as a result, there is no way to alter the competitive environment of the article with regard to the possible foreign import or activity of the foreign organisation in this country, not at all, but mainly to provide farmers with greater freedom for competition, markets, products for their own products at national markets. [[The president calls.]] That's what this is primarily about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for measuring for this bill. Now it is so that anyone can collect milk, make milk, do whatever he wants to with milk today in Iceland, just as any farmer can kill his sheep, at the accepted slaughterhouse, and sell it. There's nothing against it. There's nothing against competition for agriculture in Iceland today. There is nothing that really forbids it. I know why. A senator has tremendous faith in something we call with the three letters of the EU, and I would like to ask him: Has it been? A senator learns what is involved in the European Union's competitive legislation toward the common agricultural policy? Second, when Arla and FrieslandCampina were born, Danish and Dutch giant farming companies were organized and adopted. [[The president calls.]] Has the senator studied the details or accepted together with these giant companies? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u162	Mr. President. You're right next door. A senator may not have documents that forbid competition, but they are severely restricted. It is this way when we look at the milk industry that there is a gathering party, we can say at the total sales level of the article, which is probably something well over the 95% market share. It has proved many times that when people compete with the same party, they have done nothing particularly well. There is a reason why the regional competitiveness of markets will go into specifying the market party and what restrictions they are placed in, e.g. how they behave toward smaller parties in this article. I can't see what's to fear in that such regulations would apply here. About the second question why. A candidate on the specific conditions set in this particular fusion is the answer: No, I have not studied them, but it can be noted that, of course, there is a fundamental difference between the trades of agricultural products within the EU's internal market, that their flow is relatively free, although individual companies may well have received special access to fusion at their time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u163	V.E.G. President. 93% of all milk produced does not cross borders. So I imagine it was. A senator needs to focus a little more on how the Promised Land handles its agricultural policy. Hv. A senator speaks as if only one or a few people produced milk in Iceland and dairy products, but, of course, that is not the case. We have a company like Eagle, a great company, which produces dairy products and is increasing in the market share. We have Bio-boo. We have our own farmers, I don't quite remember what it's called right now, I've got it in a written speech here. Then we have the album, a giant company on Icelandic market, and we are now producing milk and dairy products. All can collect milk. Everyone can make it out of milk. Everyone can be born in milk. There's nothing to stop it. It is true that one person is the largest, but it does not prevent all others from participating in it. However, the question is not answered that I asked why. A senator before, whether or not the European Union's competitive legislation has replaced the common agricultural policy. It is just as we have decided at the General Assembly, although the Governing Body refuses to respect the wishes of the Alleglers and to comply with agricultural laws, they have been replaced by many. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u164	President. Thank you. A candidate of the second, and a lot of interesting matters. You're right. A senator points out that there have been a lot of fun and good innovations in milk production, a number of companies involved, but a number of companies have also died in an attempt to compete with the Radarsell. There are excellent descriptions of the company's chairman, Eagle on Icefjordur, at any given moment. A senator pointed to what it's like to compete with a giant like the Radarsell in these materials. It is not easy to deal with a company that has a completely overwhelming marketing position. It is likely that the rivals of such companies are protected from competitive behavior in this regard. In fact, it is the only thing being suggested here, that you stop looking to that exception, or that the remainder is a pack that you can find here. I can't wait for a speech. A senator will follow. I think that he will instruct me very carefully about the terms of exception that are in force from competitive laws in the Promised Land, the European Union, just waiting to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u165	V.E.G. President. I think my background and I are both equally amateurs of low prices. Thus, more than agricultural products are sold in Iceland, creating high prices for goods. A senator mentioned earlier. However, farmers are likely to be one of the few people in Iceland who are employed and who are in direct competition with subsidies and improved production elsewhere, making their position a little tighter. Today, there is one type because farmers themselves sell and compete themselves, and there is potato farmers, who are sold to the third person who is missing into this bill, i.e. The store, the little competition. I have not yet met a potato farmer who has dared to open up to them for fear of losing his business. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Is it possible for all the other farmers in Iceland to go the same way, to compete among themselves, and to be given over the power of merchants? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u166	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and my names opposed. It is true that agriculture competes with subsidized agriculture in other countries. We also provide agriculture and provide considerable protection in the form of tolls and various other obstacles, and this is not a suggestion that nothing interferes with the protection and support provided in this article. Without a doubt, most of the sectores have to contend with competition from articles that have some form of support in their own countries, except in most cases those who work in the EU's internal market where such support is prohibited. But when it comes to the commercial situation in the country, it is quite true that, as in many other places, there is certainly a few competition, few executives on the market, but nothing else we've seen in it, but that competition is there pretty much between the same parties that reflect the same thing. in their product development. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I see nothing wrong with the fact that as soon as we give farmers the freedom to market and sell their goods directly, they choose to do, or they choose into such a market without official prices, it is the same environment as any other professional life is lived in here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u167	It's directed to the president. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u168	V.E.G. President. I want to point 'em. In fact, after the collapse of a senator, it was the commercial agricultural product that held down inflation after the currency collapsed. Hv. A senator mentioned in his speech earlier that the competitive environment and e.g. Specified members are in competitive law. You're absolutely right. A senator, so I'd like to ask him, "Would you mind? " A senator to deal with me in rephrase the concept of the duty of the party to competitive law? Then maybe we could break up the superpower of the store, which is now a significant few hours away, owned by Iceland's pension fund. It doesn't in itself matter which store you go, you always shop at the pension fund, and you always pay in the pension you get when you're old. I'm asking why. A senator may want to open this bill up a little bit and more clearly define the duty of a party to compete so that we can handle the third person who is not mentioned in the bill, which is the store. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u169	Madam President. Thank you. Second and second man's answer. It's a journey I'm quite into, looking at with the bang. A senator whether there is something in our competitive laws that we can sharpen and define better, end up developing such laws. I don't have the conviction that our current competitive legislation is the only perfect competitive legislation, there are many things that can definitely improve. It's perfectly clear, for example. When we look at market definitions that set out there, the Contestance Commission has been rather confused as to what constitutes individual markets. In this regard, you might be able to sharpen the law's directions. Hv. A senator identifies those who are related, and it is true that they can take a closer look. However, when we look at the trade in the country, the only thing I can see is that in spite of a loud discussion of the opposite and in spite of few people being there is a somewhat active competition, at least a much more competitive competition than in the present legal environment, with the agricultural products itself and by which we want to improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u170	Mr. President. I'd like to briefly cover this bill, maybe expand the discussion a little and talk about the system in itself. First, I want to say that my knowledge is farmers, and I know that everyone here in the hall agrees with the claim, tough people, and the necessary class in the country to care for. But I feel and have long felt that the agricultural system is everything and really the current agricultural minister and a host of other agricultural ministers do not share my view that farmers can succeed without much interference from the government. Of course, this is not a new discussion, but it is important, and we need to take it. I simply feel that the present agricultural system describes a tremendous lack of faith in farmers. The system sets limits on the class and prevents recruitment. In fact, this prevents Icelandic farmers from taking advantage of the relative advantages they have. Icelandic farmers certainly have relative superiority. Every class and individual has a relative advantage in something, and Icelandic farmers certainly do, but I feel that the whole class is a barrier to its union. I'm convinced that farmers' status could be much better in another system, that I don't talk about consumer interests. It is no accident that every consumer organization or the National Contestant Commission has called for more farming freedom. It is no coincidence that these institutions, whether public or private organizations that are fighting for consumers, have called for fundamental changes in the system to be such. It's an organization that's fighting for consumer goods. Of course, all of us are consumers, and farmers are. It's a little farfetched to think that the present system is especially in the interests of consumers. Not to be overlooked is the fact that we have customs and the purpose of customs is to increase prices, otherwise we would not be putting tolls. Tolls, on the other hand, protect against import and then increase prices. That's their purpose. We've created a system that at least... The word says to support farmers, but I think the problem shows that if anything happens, it'll undermine the union. Farmers are now partially bound by the state price control and public production management. Of course, things have changed over the past few years, but according to OECD figures, the Icelandic agricultural system is one of the most expensive things in the world, and it has one of the greatest protections in the world. In fact, we've been there on the top of the world with Switzerland and Norway, and this comparison shows that customs in Iceland's dairy and meat products are even significantly greater than both Norway and Switzerland. However, these are countries that protect their agriculture quite a bit. This is a fairer protection than the European Union chooses to provide. I think it's a rather humiliating fact, unfortunately, I have to say, for the Icelandic agricultural system, that the percentage of Icelandic agricultural production is similar to direct and indirect funding. It is the share of Icelandic agriculture, similar to the ratio of direct and indirect funding in the official language. I don't think that's necessary. I believe in Icelandic agriculture, and I think he is posing himself without so much interference from public agencies. I still want to support the Icelandic agriculture. I just want to do it another way. I think most experts have just called for us to support farmers in a direct manner, with green strength and strength, rather than markety support. I'm not saying we shouldn't be supporting farmers. I want some Icelandic agriculture, and he's special. He is living under difficult circumstances and circumstances, but in most parts of the world, I realize it completely, but we can more and more effectively support him so that support does not occur so much at the expense of consumers but helps the class and the farmers. Farmers have nothing especially good in Iceland in general, and yet the system is one of the most expensive things in the world. Just that must be an indication that we are on the wrong path. The fact that farmers in Iceland have not been particularly good in general, especially sheep farmers, despite much support and protection, may well be picked up for good. Why must we not open our minds about how we change the system? I feel as if I'm telling the current system that much distrust exists in Icelandic farmers, that they're not trusted to get on free markets, but I can assure the Congress that I have full confidence in Icelandic farmers, that they'll do well. If they are allowed to enjoy themselves and to care for their relative superiors, they will profit by doing so. It is very important, Mr. President, not to be confused with the agricultural system and farmers. It's not the same thing. The agricultural system is not farmers, and farmers are not a agricultural system. Do not hide behind farmers when there is a hopeless agricultural system. It is often claimed that even economic laws do not apply to agriculture and that public prices are for the benefit of consumers. It is suggested that competition is not even desirable at this market and good if a lot of agricultural ministers in the past few years have not yielded to the fact that it would be quite awful if competitive laws were valid for agriculture. A clear example of this is found in agricultural legislation, where various sources of competition are given. For example, if you're under arrest, you'll find that you're under arrest for example. The milk industry's institutions allowed them to negotiate between prices and produce quantity as well as to unite under conditions that generally do not allow by competitive law. Mr. President. A competitive spirit is often deemed necessary to increase the well - being of the public and bring out positive things in the workplace. It's a little more public interest. You had to learn this in the first few months of business and economics, how to identify the consequences of customs on agriculture. This reduces the interests of consumers and the general population but can temporarily improve the interests of the narrow group of manufacturers. It can, for that is the purpose of the sponsoric system and the customs system, at least The thought. There's something to protect from the economy, the business, that's the point of it. Let us not claim that the agricultural system today contributes to the success of consumers. That's not true at all, and I hope most people are at least I'll agree on that. It is no new science that competition in general sees a lower price for consumers and the loyalty of economic efficiency in corporate management. It's just one of the findings in business that competition in general is beneficial at a consumer market. This is not supposed to be new news. A competition is generally beneficial at a consumer market. The competition fosters innovation, improved manufacturing methods, encourages companies to do better with their customers. As a result, the lack of competition and competition causes frequent, frequent, and professional damage to consumers. The damage is a higher price prices, less services, less control of enterprises, etc. We should not accept the prospect of enjoying one of the highest food prices in the world. Now I'm not going to argue with some senators about the level of food prices in Iceland. Generally, it is on the higher side. I hope we can agree on that. Since food in Iceland is an animal, import and domestic, I take it out completely, but imported food in Iceland is more expensive by reason of the sponsoric system. As you can say, it's the thought of the sponsoric and protective system - the customs system. [[Up front.]] The country has 3 60,000 consumers. We should agree on trying to reduce food prices. One way is to introduce the growth of competition and greater freedom in the consumer market, in the agricultural market, and in my opinion the level of a farmer's request is to make a better impression. I'm not going to do this at the expense of farmers. I'm saying farmers will profit in an open and free system. The examples illustrate this. When customs protection was removed on tomatoes, pickles, and peppers in 2002, was heard: Are you completely destroying the farmers who work in that market? At that time, the voices were heard. The results of this market were generally seen, now I'm a little overemphasic, that more was sold by this domestic product of vegetables, increased production, and increased pay. Note that the pay went up according to the Economic Institutes report in this article at the time of the Economic Institute of Economics. We saw it when we allowed the import of foreign cheeses. What happened? We got more domestic cheeses. We get the foreign cheeses, yes, but we get more types of domestic cheese. Icelandic farmers respond to competition because they are good at it if they are free to do so. The international competition is good for them, so I do not fear that any Icelandic farmers will not be able to compete with foreign competition, as they have done in lands where freedom is rich. That's what I'm calling out for. Let us allow Icelandic farmers to thrive. Let them compete in foreign competition, and we need not worry too much. Nevertheless, I support the government, taxpayers, in a direct way to strengthen and support Icelandic farming. Green strength, direct strength. This is what the European Union, OECD, WTO, and others have said to all countries: Yes, yes, you may but do it this way. Let's stop this tollaby. Tolar is a time error. Tolls are a costly means of protecting something. We've seen it for 60 years. Support farmers in other ways and more efficient, both in their favor and especially in the interests of consumers. We're here to introduce the market law into Icelandic agriculture. That would benefit farmers, and that would certainly benefit consumers. The marketing economy has proved to be over and over in the traditional consumer market. It may surprise some, but the market laws apply in Iceland as well as elsewhere. Marketing laws are not meant to live in an unregulated environment. We as officers have never spoken of it, but we have always talked about our wanting powerful competitive advice. The milk salad has 98%, it was at least In 2016, a market share in the dairy markets, according to the claims of the president of the U.S.A. It was only suggested that the marketing department was not particularly high. The U.S. Supreme Court has called competitive legislation the Constitution of professional life. I think it's kind of cool. The competitive legislation is the Constitution of professional life. It is extremely important, especially to smaller companies and to new companies who want to be involved. That is why I encourage us to start thinking of new ways to create a strong agricultural system, a more efficient agriculture support, a greater freedom and freedom, and a powerful innovation among Icelandic farmers. I claim from this chair that the present agricultural system is dragbiting farmers and, in fact, an enemy of consumers. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to inform the Senate that I gave almost the same speech 15 years ago when the then minister, the Guðni of Ágústsson, came to this hall with a bill asking him to separate the milk industry from the competitive. Of course, the union rejected it, but it was accepted. How sad that we have not taken any steps in terms of just this unique aspect in a clearer way than we can see! I find it odd that when it comes to agriculture, I can do almost the same talk every 15 years. But for now, Mr. President, I'll let it go.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u171	The Honorable President. If the speech was so bad 15 years ago, she hasn't gotten any better. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But now I'm going to ask the match, boy. A senator, whether he agrees with me that one of the agri-environmental activities is a lower price to consumers. Does he not agree with me on that? Another question, because I have so limited time. Hv. A senator speaks of other ways to support farmers. In what way, boy. Senator? Third, please. Hv. A senator speaks of the benefit of consumers getting better from tearing down sales companies and the current arrangement. I wanted to get a little understanding of that. But I'm also going to call attention to this tomatoes, gurku, paprika language that began in 2002. What has it done? The gardeners have been placed on a fixed shelf, and humans have no worries and continue their okra on all the other vegetables in peace instead of promoting more and more different productions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u172	Mr. President. What kind of strength? I specifically mentioned examples of the strength I support, and many experts also, including experts from the World Trade Agency, OECD, the European Union, economists, and others who are not only concerned with the interests of farmers, but also consumers by our strengthening them by bone pay. They know each other here, I'll figure it out. But let's do it. We still have market support. Tolls are a bad way. I know that me and what. A senator disagrees about this. Tolar is a bad way of supporting agriculture. Tolls will be held. Yes, we support the agriculture, but we do it in a straight way. Green strengths, environmental strengths, settlements, agricultural concentrations, whatever they call them - will use them to a greater degree if we want to strengthen agriculture. We have a livestock contract, 14 billion a year for ten years, guaranteed. The undirected support is about 9◯10 billion. That's 25 billion each year's support. That's a lot of support. Nevertheless, the advantage of a farmer is not as good as possible. I know why. The senator must agree. The quality of a farmer's prayers is not what he should be. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we must not confuse our system with our farmers. [[The president calls.]] It's the same thing in my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u173	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for answering neither of my questions, so ask him to use the second answer to do so. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator spoke of government security control. You see, in spite of government security control, last year the slaughter holder in Iceland decided to reduce the price of sheep farmers by 29% on one side. This 29% hasn't paid off to lamb I buy once a week. The question is, Where did this 29% fall, and if it had been in some other way, would it have changed anything? Who, then, should have asked for it? Who should have been responsible for the price? I'm asking why. Again: Where have the 29% escaped? They haven't slipped to consumers. They didn't run to farmers. We may be able to find out where they were running. But talking about competition. I'm very competitive, and I'm not right. A senator says that we disagree about customs on agricultural products, since almost no agricultural product is being exported to Iceland. All the grain and other items are not toll, so it has been for years, so I certainly do not disagree with the senator on this, on the contrary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u174	Mr. President. I'm happy for this support, and I hope we can go together now. A senator, to cut off the price content and quantity left. These materials have been cleaned up, but customs have left behind. Let's just take care of it together. Let's finish all customs of Icelandic agriculture. I'm ready to go for this, if any. There's a senator in there. Who's going to sell the goods? I don't want one of the prices listed by the store; seven individuals, of whom four represent farmers and products, have more than one share. I don't want any government awards committees in this or any other area. The market's supposed to control it like any other at the consumer market. It is really in the best interests of farmers and consumers to have it that way. And the sad forecasts about the vegan farmers. I made that clear because there are always predictions of shame, but they have not come true. The market share of domestic vegetable production increased, production increased, and pay increased. I don't see the problem of increasing freedom here, and I just think that, even if it's from 2002, it's an excellent example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u175	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst, Ólafur of Ágústsson, Auguste's guru, for an inspired and powerful discourse. Now there's a good team member here to help us farmers, and it sounds like, on that discussion even if only school is needed. But we don't quite agree, so let's put it that way. Only information about tomatoes, pickles, and peppers, to be handled correctly, is absolutely correct. But in return, certain arrangements were made, and farmers were paid outright, just to be clear. Then I'd like to remind you that when people talk about government prices and the other prices, and this is just being discussed with dairy products. The milk industry and the carnivorous industry must not mix products. There are two differences. I'll find out later in the next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u176	Mr. President. There may not be a direct question to me, but... I'm willing to go to school, but I want to go to school. A senator also exists. I've been teaching business and economics for a lot of years, so I can teach it. A senator's plans are to blame me for the agriculture. There's a lot I can blame for the market law. I can blame a lot on the effects of customs. I can blame a lot on consumer interests. Should we not teach each other in this regard? All I'm saying is that the agricultural market is not supposed to be different from other markets, that we create a whole system about it, complete booth, I'm just gonna call it a booth, which doesn't exactly serve what's right. Senator. That's what I'm calling out for. I believe that Icelandic farmers can manage without our interference, without the exception of competitive songs, without us thinking about what things are worth and what they're worth. As a politician, I don't want to get an entire profession in my arms in this way that the agriculture is because I trust in an Icelandic agriculture system to survive. The examples illustrate this. [[The president calls.]] As mentioned here, some of the agriculture is quite free, with grain and so on. [[The president calls.]] There, we're just fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u177	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. They run to and fro to see whether they want to support the agriculture or not support and have shown that they want to support it in some way that is not being done today. All right. Men would talk about customs all the time, but it would be good for men if they realized what customs are at stake. Where does she lie? It would also be good to recognize also the class of products. I know why. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson has it in front of him, and he can tell us where the customs are because they are not lying on all farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u178	Mr. President. No, we've been reducing customs protection. That's an indication that what I'm saying may have a sound base. We've had people in the Agricultural Ministry from various groups who have just figured out that customs protection is a bad way to protect agriculture. That's a good thing. As a result, customs decline. What I'm saying is, let's just hurry to that trend. But it remains that the so - called indirect support for the Icelandic agriculture is about 10 billion a year. Toll protection lies primarily, so there are many tolls left. It reminds me that the income in budgets is 2 or 3 billion, but toll protection is a cost to the Icelandic economy and to the Icelandic consumers. That's what I'm drawing out. So it is not proper to look at just the customs of the budget. We also need to consider the cost of sacrifice and the cost of home, including our Icelandic farm home, by this route, which I think most countries are about to disappear. We're supposed to strengthen the agriculture, I repeat it, in a direct green way, and ask what is best for consumers, environments, and farmers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u179	V.E.G. President. Like others, I want to thank a senator for his fine speech. Hv. A senator speaks of green strength, green support. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether to follow the same procedure that has been practiced in the European Union, i.e. To strengthen the landowners, that the landowners may be strengthened upon the land, for example. Then I ask him if he agrees that the people who have been buying out the world all over Iceland, e.g. They shall be strengthened from the east, because they are the inhabitants of the land. Is that how it is? A senator sees this? Should the British capitalists get the strength so that they can rent us, the other hired men, the strength? I'd like to ask who, too. A member of Parliament whether he recognizes that the European Court has decided in November 2017 that there are certain limits to the price and quantity of agricultural products that can be consulted because this is the case. The Senator speaks of no restrictions, competition is quite free in the world, but this is not the case. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament also: Can the senator name one country in the world as an agricultural land that does not have toll protection or some other kind of protection on its agriculture?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u180	Mr. President. Yeah, New Zealand. With the strength, I'm a supporter of the green. I don't intend to have landowners in Iceland, whether foreign or domestic, in order to be in agriculture. What kind of predestination will come from that chair if one is going to speak that way? Nevertheless, I can still say that I want to strengthen farmers directly using the land in a certain way. I'm not going to publish any banos so if they own a country in Iceland, they'll get a check from the state out all over the country. I don't care if the person's name is foreign or Icelandic. I think we can totally edit the system, and we've done a little bit of that in the direction that the funding flows in a straight, green way and doesn't make the market stand up. That's what I'm drawing out. Let us agree on strengthening these blessed agriculture, but let us not do so in order that the market laws are bent and broken because we always lose them. It is a costly way to achieve the goal of fostering an Icelandic peasant class, which I think is very important, since modern agriculture is special in many ways. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u181	V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in view of his name New Zealand: Is there no restriction on the import of agricultural products to New Zealand? If they're there, what are they? You see, I've only heard of New Zealand. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator, because he did not answer my question about the strength of landowners: Is it that vision or the green ones as strong as water? A senator imagines that we should give strength to those who own the land to get the strength to make land, and then they will hire us the rest of us, who may want to have a few stripes or cows or something, a land for our farm? Is that how it is? A senator sees this? I ask again, because of what. A senator speaks of competitive matters: How is it possible to do so? A senator and others who follow the bill here speak like competitive authorities, e.g. In the European Union, cover all the agricultural productions? Is that how it is? Are there no agricultural policies from the European Union's competitive policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u182	Mr. President. Only in the EU. I've spoken of this sermon before, and I'll say again: The European Union's agricultural policy is very stupid, and it's been that for decades. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Is there something else I should tell you? The Icelandic agricultural system is even more crazy. Do people think I'm gonna stand here in a talk and start defending the European Agricultural Policy because I want to join the European Union? What kind of European blindness do you think we are? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We can totally cysteize the European Union in the way we do. But take the fishing road, for example. We strengthen the Icelandic seaside very little, we had a sailor discount, and we strengthened it through research and so forth. We are on the lead in the fishing road in reducing government grants. Why can we not do that in agriculture too? Why do we have to follow the tops of state support, Switzerland and Norway? When Iceland goes to the International Business Agency conferences, we are among the states that require the best protection in agriculture than the minimum protection in the fishing industry. It's a blundering twin because something else must be right. [[The president calls.]] In view of the reasoning, both factors cannot be correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u183	V.E.G. President. I think this case got better in the 15 years since it was first delivered. Hv. A senator spoke of farmers as a hard - to - work class. I agree wholeheartedly, and I think that we all love farmers in our hearts. In fact, I love one very much, but there is now another story. [[To the point: Incompetent.]] - Yeah, I guess you could say I'm incompetent, but I'm not. Hv. A senator speaks of the sale agreement as an honor to advancement. I have to say, I don't think so. A senator has read the contract. They have green strength, newer strength, and more direct strength. I want to point 'em. A senator who referred to this agreement as an obstacle to development that by 1990, there were 2,000 cow farmers who produced 100 million gallons [100 million L]. This year, 550 farmers produce 150 million gallons. A small number of industry have reached such growth. How can that be? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u184	Mr. President. I'm not gonna doubt it for one second. A senator has more insight into the agriculture than I do. That's why I'm talking a little general about the system. And if agriculture has made progress, which I specifically noted as he had done, it is extremely positive. Often, the progress is based on the liberal steps we take. The hardware deal is 14 billion for 10 years, inflatable. That's a high price tag, I think, for no greater reason than that farmers, especially sheep farmers, have nothing particularly good in it. I know there's been compression in the milk industry and in the dairy farms, and it's fine. We have not been afraid of that. Sometimes unity is needed. Sometimes a farm and a business go under and stuff like that. Let's just let companies grow. All I'm calling in is that we trust agriculture without too much involvement in the market itself. Let's put the agriculture first and foremost in terms of low interest, stable currency, and remain a new currency. Then let us cherish it in a special way, in a green way, in the spirit that OECD and the World Trade Organization have been calling. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's nothing new I'll say from this chair, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u185	V.E.G. President. I don't know that farmers were quite willing to participate in country growth and development in these matters. We are a people whose resources are based on the use of resources. We're in charge of the country. Farmers have taken care of this and its construction and have since reached land healing. We want to compare ourselves with rich nations, nations that are primarily in these matters. We compare ourselves with Norway, Switzerland, and Sweden. These are all peoples protecting their farms. If we didn't, where would we be? Why don't we just be an island in the middle of the ocean without all customs? Should we open everything? Hv. A senator talks about the money set up on land. In my unit, it's just shit on a stick compared to everything we get across the street.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u186	Mr. President. Yeah, I don't think we're supposed to be chasing the land that has an animal, an unexplored agricultural system like Switzerland and Norway. There are also, notice, countries with very high food prices. There is a direct link between the marketing of government interference, including Through custom, and high food prices. As I mentioned in my talk, the purpose of Customs is to prevent the import of foods and to raise prices on the source food. I thought why. A senator's forecast is that if we opened the system, we'd be in coldwash. That's why I took the vegetarian thing. I liked it when we opened that system, and the quality of a vegetable prayer generally improved. Same thing we saw with the cheeses. The same can be seen with regard to, e.g. In fact, foreign yoghurt, that land in the state, began to react with new products and innovations. Then there is the need to say: A competition promotes this work of companies and local farmers. [[The president calls.]] That's why I don't think Icelandic farmers are really afraid of any foreign competition, but we keep them from benefiting from competing with foreign people. That's why I call for increased farming freedom in the way I do here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u187	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the good discussion that's taken place here, and especially of the primer, anyway. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. Here we discuss a bill to correct the change in agricultural products and equipment laws, although the discussion has taken place in other areas earlier, and that's just good. Before we go any further, I'd like to answer one question for a reason. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, who he did not get to answer earlier. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi asked about the state of New Zealand where there are no customs. I'm just gonna answer that, you know, it's true that New Zealand isn't a toll, but that's where people just don't import agricultural products. Those who want to know know are aware of that. When they bring one apple with them, they're put in jail. That's it now. That's how they do their toll protection. It's just against the rules. But we're not talking about it. What we're talking about here is a bill to correct the change in agricultural products and equipment laws. It's so fun that about a year ago, the fellow also standing here was also a deputy, so it's good to take this discussion every time you enter the council. It's really nice. There are a number of questions that people wonder about the Galactice sale, their eyes focused primarily on it, i.e. the milk industry and the beauty of the milk industry compared to the rest of the country's farms. A competition is good. That's exactly what I'm saying. But competition must also be on the basis of a person's being able to accept the competition rather than be in arms behind it. Why do I say that? Yes, it is now, so that it is imported into the country on a variety of products, including dairy products, even though there are tolls on these dairy products as well. Then, in itself, we are competing in a international market. We're competing with a giant company for milk production. The special person and other people who have spoken here in this discussion are very concerned about the competition and economy that are taking place in this article in order to return lower prices to consumers. Now I say that I'm not an educated economist, but I understand economists that it is usually appropriate to adjust the article to get lower prices. By permission of the President, I'm here in the Farmer's Last Page, in an excellent article by Snorri Sigurðsson. It shows that 20 of the largest crops in the world have 25% of all production on milk. That's quite a bit. They're huge companies, like, a couple of years ago. Bottomst in Switzerland, but the number I take below only turns to dairy products. In 2017, however, the rant at Nesté, Switzerland, was 2,807 million dollars. This bill speaks of giving farmers the freedom to thrive on markets, to get their product on markets, and so on. All right. It has also been observed in the past evening that it is forbidden not only to do business with the Radarsells. There's been a mention here of the Eagle and other smaller dairy farms. It may also be necessary and is absolutely necessary to include in the discussion that it is related to the company's Lacties. The milk salad is required to take all milk wherever it is in the country for the same price. There's a transfer between farmers. It is not settled between farmers by where they live in the land. A certain amount of milk to the milk, such as Eagle in Bolungarvík, and other companies, must also be delivered to milk stations. Lactationals also need to be handled with the materials that are not useful to them in their production. I'd say that although there were some buttons at the beginning of the operation of these enterprises it looks better, because people are trying to tailor the system to a small company being able to work on this market. I'm gonna grab off the report that follows this bill and think about some of the factors in it. It will come, for example. ... thatin the current law farmers have a special position that will be likened preferably to the position of employees in the service of public and departments. Yeah, it's amazing how you look at it. According to my best knowledge, this is the case with Lavalsaman, which belongs to farmers. By the time this trip was taken in 1990, if I remember correctly, farmers'prices had dropped 12.4% in ten years at the same time as the processing and distribution costs had increased by 10.5%. It wasn't just because men went into this economy. At that time the construction post 19 was about the country. The number of workers dropped to five, and the number of workers decreased by 30%. What has happened? Farming prices are determined by a prices committee, i.e. prices for consumers on certain products are determined by a price - price committee, followed by a price paid to farmers. I believe that the economic situation in those days was in favor of both consumers and farmers. We are also familiar with the situation, and it has been mentioned earlier today, at other products that manage meat. There's a whole other situation. The situation of sheep farmers has often been discussed in this chair. I wonder and want to shoot it in here: What do we see if we also take meat products and put them in the same model as MS? Is it not likely that we would be able to save a considerable amount of money? Prices may increase. I can only see a price rising in prayer by making business adjustments. That's for sure. I suggest men look a little further ahead. There's a lot of people here talking about tolls and tolls and this and this. Should we not just look at this with the view that we are competing in a global market? Sure, these companies are small here. Then it does not pay to split them up and do even less. Instead, try to produce a good - for - nothing product as much as possible. That's key. And it must be done by having an exception from competitive laws, exactly as we are in the milk. It would be a wish if we could do the same in meat stores, approaching things so that it would be permitted to work together, certainly by conditions, for the benefit of both farmers and consumers. I don't see that little producers in the milk industry are being shaken up as they are today, I'll mention, for example. Straight from farms, etc. I have to remind you that today was being given awards on the lunch day of Iceland's Food and Nutrition Society, and three of the five titles for the Fjorn, the prizes, were due to innovation in milk. There were e.g. Top Valley of the Blue Forest, an example of a farm that sells directly from farms and Eross residences in Dall County, which have ice and scurry production. This is now possible in the system we live in today. I don't see that this system is, like they want to talk about, inhibiting production like this. This helps, and humans are extracting some part of their milk, and most of the other milk passes to a decomposite. There's been a discussion about customs. There are customs everywhere, indiscriminately. A variety of methods and tools are used to slow down traffic through the toll gate. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson was asked earlier about this and named New Zealand, which had no customs. A significant number are toll into the European Union, the Promised Land. To name something, customs are in Canada. That's what we know. However, there have been quite many beautiful words to the agricultural industry, and people have much faith in it, but let the agriculture operate in the environment we want to see, we want it to be able to make good money, to have products, and to offer consumers high - quality prices. This bill is not just about livestock. It is also about equipment laws. I cut down on that part in Il. chapter 5 of the bill, of the change in the device law, No. 70/1998, with subsequent changes, and suggested, into B-mer 14 ..................................................... Section 3. The laws come: environmental protection, forestry, shutting down ditches, mini-industrials, tourism. I think that's where I think we've gone to another ministry and we're on a different level. These factors belong to the Environment and Resource Ministry that I know best, they were at least the last day when we were dealing with forestry and environmental health. I don't quite understand what's going on in there. Also, I'd like to mention that I don't understand that here's a paraphernalia, both the hardware laws and the livestock law, being pulling out Iceland's Farms Associations, pretty often, and the construction committee of agricultural contracts is just I think it's totally knocked off the board. I do not understand this because the European Commission of the Convention is a cooperative site for the farmers and the State to enforce the labour agreements and to have consequences or such. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I suppose there's gonna be some kind of answer, so I'm ready to put myself in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u188	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of Parliament reviews the matter and knows that he speaks from some knowledge about the seminary in terms of matters. What I often wondered is that, first of all, it should be kept in mind that this is not talking about changing the direct support of agriculture in any way. This article does not speak of changing the customs protection of the article in any way. Rather, it is merely looking to see if there is room for competition within this article for the benefit of both farmers and consumers, to provide room for ourselves. As mentioned in the preceding discussion, certainly right, this includes increasing the freedom of farmers to negotiate their own affairs and choose which organizations they belong to, at least not having such an organization end up in some way it would be absurd to plan to attack agrienvironmental organizations. Last year, I'm interested in hearing a point of view. A senator who is already in a competition for import. Today, there are a large number of industry that even operates in a totally open and free competition with far larger companies, such as whales. A senator came in on milk production, e.g. Foreigners still seem to be able to live a fine life. For example, local drinking producers are competing in direct competition with international giants, even bigger than the reputable milk producers. Fear why. A senator in Icelandic agriculture with his good products, which I think we both agree to be true, and any existing protection cannot compete with them, such as by cheese production and the rest within the limits that are already available today for the import of such products?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u189	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for the questions. Do I fear? I'm not afraid in itself of competition, i.e. If the companies working on this market here have the capacity and capacity to offer high prices to consumers. In order for an enterprise in such a sector to become aware of the development of certain products, market work and the like, there must be a certain stroke force. We have at times been doing so in the sectors that if the milk industry were in a position similar to the carnivorous industry today, we would probably just be wearing blue milk and sliding in butter paper. Hv. I hope a senator understands what I mean. I think it's very important in this context, because I think that we farmers don't fear competition, that we want to be able to manipulate the company we're running. It's all over the table when we get to the meat sector that we'll have to arrange. To cope with such a situation, we must do even more. Import meat.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u190	Mr. President. I can, of course, agree with what. A senator, of course, needs space to be set. It is necessary in all sectors and companies to resist competition and to be competitive over the longer term, to be constantly considering the economy, while at the same time providing for products and innovations in their production. What I wonder about in this, however, is when we watch the trend in international trade, including agricultural products, even though, indeed, it was there determined, well, I would call it a resolution for about two decades or so, there is always constant and growing pressure to open up more business with agricultural products between countries. We'll see, for example. a recently made free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, where the import of agrienvironmental products was being opened in both directions. The same is true of the vacation agreements the United States has been making, and considerable pressure was on the same thing when it came to a so - called TTIP deal, which said a vacation agreement between the United States and the European Union, which, in fact, sailed onto the coast. But it's clear that this is what we can expect to get at future vacation contracts. It is not entirely necessary for domestic agriculture to prepare, e.g. Do international freedoms in this country increase for the harshness of international competition? Because we will be pressured in our mutual vacation agreements to open more business with agricultural products?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u191	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson in this regard. But I'd also like to reiterate to face this competition as a challenge. A candidate also announces that we must have a measure of freedom to adjust the sector, just as we did in the milk industry, exactly the same. There's freedom too. They're not just locked in a drawer. We have to keep that in mind. The peasants are the survivors of today. Regarding the meat, we need to do a very similar way to cope with the future. We're just running a business. We know this exactly as in another food industry in Iceland - if we look at the seabed: What has been done there? That's where they manipulate. People are always looking for ways to do things as effectively as possible. That's just what we want to do, the food producers of Iceland. We want a specific setting for our work environment to be able to adjust and thus work for both consumers and farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u192	V.E.G. President. First of all, I want to say that I miss what's happening. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson should not be in the hall. I would have liked him to have heard what I wanted to say. I hope he hears me wherever he is. Pink was shocked to me at the moment. A member of the United States asked the body of elders not to ask them to defend the cultural agricultural policy of the European Union. I thought, " I've got most shelter now, and there must be an emergency meeting in Brussels. ' I've been thinking a lot about what this bill is for. I'm saying I'm not representing farmers any more than anybody in this room. I must say, however, that if speeches and answers that were offered earlier, e.g. of what? paritaprevir Álún Ólafur Ágústsson, would be cut together and moved somewhere, would likely be the best propaganda for the Icelandic agricultural equipment I've ever heard. I'm convinced that it would work for a team of Icelandic agriculture as never before. As I say, I was wondering a little why this bill is submitted. On page 18. 4 of the bill report says, by permission of the President: The number of dairy products in the milk industry has decreased, and much prosperity has taken place for the 13 years of farming. You're absolutely right. It was noted in a report from the University of Economics that for the most part, this situation had held back the prices of the university for a number of probably 10 to 15 years. I don't think anyone said it better than the former. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson. He said that this one factor had yielded 3 billion a year to economic management, 2 to consumers, and 1 to farmers. So I ask myself, " Why do men want to attack that arrangement? ' I'm kind of offering a feeling that what men are up to is moving farmers to fight among themselves, thus reducing their competitiveness and their ability to work. However, I fear that it will, along the way, increase prices to consumers. It is quite possible that the practicality that has taken place, e.g. in the dairy industry - and I say that I am not defending the dictatorial order of the Lacties at the time, which seems to be only removed - for the benefit of both consumers and farmers. I ask myself again: Why do men want farmers to start fighting among themselves for markets when they stand by themselves in front of a confines, which is the store, where a group of related parties to a company that has some 70-80% of a market share in Iceland? How should single farmers take their stand against such overwhelming odds? We will not be effective in lowering prices until we take this all the way. The Supreme Court now has the right to import unheated meat. All right, we'll deal with it. I would have thought that at the same time, we would have had to import more merchants. I don't trust that those currently on the market will bring in good prices and return them all the way to consumers. I haven't seen it yet. In that sense, I find this bill surprising, and I wondered about its purpose. Perhaps it is preeminent to have the booze bill, to keep farmers in good shape, just as they would like to keep shops in place. I know Hagar will be very happy about this, but the consumers may not be able to do that. Being in the largest market area of the country, in the capital area, I can't quite predict that this bill will bring about any way to benefit consumers. I'm sorry, but I don't have an unquestioning question to the highest level. Secretary of the budget where I asked about the government's merit tax pay on agricultural sales. It is often spoken in a public chair and out in the community, as if farmers were carers representing the State, and by asking that question, I wanted to determine what the state is collecting from a valuable tax, net, of the commercial trade with the same products. But it shouldn't be that that number is at least as much if not higher than the human energy that comes from a government fund to produce agricultural products? Then I further remind you that almost every country in the world has agrienvironment schemes to reduce prices to consumers. I have often seen this in my discussion because at times people talk about the growth of agriculture as one of the aquacultical phenomena. I remind you of a very recent production where the federal government of Washington, U.S.A., supplied rice production in Arkansas. Later, they brought rice down to Haiti and destroyed it with rice and self - basics. So going and selling with such products is a little different than most of the other products we handle with. Since then, it has been spoken of as having blossoms and not as a state's strength. I'd like to remind you, though, that we could take out what could be called social action in the fishing road, i.e. Specialised farms Based on, etc., and afforded. The last thing I saw in it was a price at 89 billion dollars. It's natural structure, of course, because we want to keep our country built or we've all wanted it so far. In this respect, the support we provide for agricultural production is twofold, two purposes to keep the country inhabited, and to ensure that consumers will receive good things at a very good price. Then it came up last year, as I mentioned before, in a very short answer, that the price of the flocks dropped one-sided by 29%. It was not the public merit that humans have been talking about being of the wicked one that controlled it. There were Marketing Authorisationrs who did so, in effect, that there was a huge supply here. A recent answer from agrienvironmental minister revealed that the enormous supply of money was 1,100 tons. Now at the beginning of the slaughter times, there were just over 700 tons of sheep products. It is so strange, and I will rather dig for it, that there was no way to get out except that this was the supply of whole bodies. It wasn't for what parts they were, it wasn't for whether they were beats or food, heads, or similar. But by the means that there were 1,100 tons of such products last year, the price for sheep was dropped by 29%. At the same time, the legion of lamb we buy at the store has not decreased our height. We need to make it our concern now to look for where the 29% of them went, for there is no small amount, 29% of all the stored sheep products last year. There are no small things. We need to know which pocket it used to find out, because farmers are paying the bill, like sometimes before. These products have not been raised, but they have not dropped, no matter what, 29%. If the last year's operation was to reduce the supply problem, why did it not put on a grand meal for last year's slaughter to work on the huge supply problem, which was suddenly 700 tons at the beginning of the slaughter times today and the coagulation of stores? That was a big supply problem. We're overrated. To be honest, if you don't have the bill to permanently break down the peasant class, they're going to smoke in that there's one way or another to fix a competitive stand, whether it's in the way or out. I think we're totally set. It has also been said that the 2002 vegan experiment was brilliant and that everyone is quite content with it, i.e. The merchants are especially pleased with her because they have nothing to worry about with vegetables. They produce the four types of customs that were removed from them and have some small strength, while other vegetables are natural predators, what is not produced within the country, and humans can provide themselves with an example of how to manage it, about this experiment, if an experiment was to be called, could not be made for everyone. Instead of doing this, we may want to consider why a mile per hour for a large gardening farmers costs 10 k. and 50 dollars in Iceland when it costs 8 bucks. 50 dollars in Holland. Why? I know that, in part, it's because of the definition of electrical supply in urban areas and rural areas. Perhaps the most tragic example is the Aarhusian forces, which are in a 60,600 - mile line of air from the largest power stations in the country. There the price is higher because of high distribution costs. What kind of bullshit is that? Besides that, in the South, there are only 600 jobs in gardening. There are more jobs than there are. In Alcoa's studio, in a firefighter. Why don't we raise that amount of energy so that people can produce more different kinds of vegetables here? If we look at this globally, the natural process of transporting vegetables from Spain, either by air or by sea, comes to Iceland. Why do we not support what we can easily do rather than try to break it down from within? No matter what anybody says, I can't see better than with the bill just that. Of course, when a person wants to make changes, the weakest link in this chain is the manufacturer, the farmer. I said earlier about the method that farmers themselves sell and compete with each other that we have an example of potatoes, and I have not yet met the mashed potato eater who dares give no thought to his business relationship with the big shopping chains. Then said I, Wait, are we going to transfer it to sheep? Will we transfer it to the milk? Will we sell to the great markets that rule, which are literally owned by the same party? The pensions are my family's life's savings. We are naturally paying in advance for our pension, which we are to receive when we grow old, by paying a higher price for what we eat each time. So we're paying ourselves on it. Maybe it's a good thing, I don't know. Somebody thinks so, but I don't think so. That's why I say what we have to do, and I painted it earlier, was to accept competitive legislation to define who's related, for example. In commercial management, it can be replaced by enterprises which have superpower over distribution of food in Iceland. In Britain, there are three large chains, a total of about 50 to 660 percent of the market. The British have been terrified over it for years. In Iceland alone, we have 60% and another with over 20%, and now they're owned by members of our own, and we don't say anything and we don't do anything. It seems that the competitive authorities are not concerned, but they were very concerned about the exception of the Galaxala for a few years, resulting in 3 billion a year, 2 to consumers, and 1 to farmers. You may need to set priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u193	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator with an interesting speech. Listening to what is bad is a lot of things to be kept in mind. A senator, but I'd kind of like to start because he finished. Regarding the financial funds that traders in the country, I wondered if we can talk about the duty of parties. If we compare these two points, we are referred to as putting off a price committee, but the stakeholders give more of the commission to make a decision for the manufacturers or farmers themselves, as well as to consumers. Is it possible to match the pension fund, that they're family, to say why. A senator really that the country's pension funds are in some kind of price fixing at a small market? The Penitentiary funds are partly appointed in the administration of representatives of the labor movement, representatives of the consumers in the country, the same representatives, and refused to continue to appoint representatives of the prices committee because they considered it absolutely out of place, they stopped appointing their representatives to them for several years in a clear protest to this price-settling arrangement, they considered it to be contrary to the interests of consumers. Counts 'em out. A senator in real life that the pension fund as the owners of these companies, only in part to be held, is in some sort of price fixing at a retail market? That those serving in the country, the labor movement, would really feel that way? I can't believe it. A senator really believes that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u194	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's great interest in this question, since I would like to answer it. The short answer is yes. ASI was found to have concern about three weeks or months ago, i.e. In Iceland the largest food chain is what is called a silent price fixing. That, in fact, was built. Therefore, at the lowest prices, the two stores usually covered one dollar of the products that were likely to enter the prices surveys. Do I think the pension agents are doing this? It's got, uh..what. A senator, a lot of people warned about how big the pension fund is, they had 50.1% in Höls the last time I knew, they had 35% in a necklace, more now. So they had a dominant share. What humans have said to worry about is that the funds have not used this power to control humans and that they have not set a proper tenant policy. It appears, for example. in that these same companies are paying the highest wage, which the labor leaders are, in turn, to criticize. I think they're standing in the water in both legs. So, yeah, this really bothers me, and I don't think we're gonna make it in Iceland, i.e. in a consumer market, until this has been handled. These business chains, both of them, are the two biggest, and they also own the collective owner. They also have a vegetable import business. They also have meat crops. In other words, they are all empty - eyed and can in itself determine the price of food. Yeah, well, we can order our clothes online and all that, but if we're gonna get into a low place, we're gonna have to swim to the Faeroe Islands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u195	Mr. President. I got it. I got it. To find out for yourself the price of food, e.g. magazines in this country, compared with foreign stores. When I did at least myself that price-seizing, I noticed that there is not much difference in the value of the imported product, e.g. which might be described as having a full, active competition. But there is a considerable difference in agricultural products between these countries, especially when comparing ourselves with other northern countries. Then, I'm not comparing ourselves to giant countries, but primarily to our neighbors in the northern countries, we can say, a small market, small agriculture globally, certainly state-sized, and do farming like us. However, there is something else that caught my attention on the matter anyway. A senator, and there I think we agree completely. This is the description of the price reduction that resulted in farming on lamb because of a supply problem, as it was described here over a year ago. I took, like a whisk. A senator, as a result of this massive price reduction to farmers, did not become a threat to consumers, although in the past three, four, or so, the price of lamb did not take place. This certainly was not shown in such a dramatic loss as it was offered and carried out in prayer. Is this not an illustration of the lack of competitiveness and market management of products for farmers and consumers at the same time? Why not handle them with a lack of competition and increase the freedom of farmers to negotiate prices, markets, and even produce their own products? There we ourselves are with legislation from the Council of Prayer, which is a great challenge to what is permitted to do, e.g. In home-rolling and stuff like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u196	V.E.G. President. In many ways, it is the right thing to do. Senator, this may be a crying thing. The 29% reduction we talked about will result in another 10% reduction from that in the afternoon. This loss was not due to the official committee's total price on lamb, not at all. They were just butchers who joined themselves, and what may be crying in that subject is that, in fact, the community of farmers is the owners of these departments. It seems somehow that farmers did not achieve the impact of their possession on the same products. In itself, I hate to talk like that because we always tend to talk about farmers as if they were some minor man in his business, which they are not at all. It's just that I don't feel equal. That's why I think we need to take this all the way because I don't want to go down because we've already isolated this competition on the top of the high chain, as we say, but the last person in line, i.e. The merchant, belonging to this narrowly narrow property, has the vast superpowers these men, or chains, have. Speaking of whether it's unnatural for me that these are the pensions, they're naturally in direct competition with a private company. I can mention one random store that is a French trade in Hafnarfjörður, as well as the Mela shop. The pensions don't have anything there. They are naturally in fierce competition with these merchants, real merchants. So I think it's worth it to take the competitive legislation to pray in this subject to ensure that there's spread of property on the market and even cut down the largest companies to get down at the same time the price of consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u197	Mr. President. This has been an exciting discussion in many ways and has been covered in many parts of the world and perhaps been mentioned in the subject of the bill but still a good discussion. I will probably fall into the same pit of discussing a number of things that may not be directly involved in the bill. When I listened to the discussion, I immediately noticed that whether they agree with what appears on the bill or opposition, very strong feelings are stirred by speakers. It's putting a little face on it. You've put yourself in position for this kind of debate. What I would like to do first is talk about how we look at farmers, i.e. the job being a farmer, I should say it different, I should say business. In the second word, we look to farmers as employees, and we call the peasant class, but of course farmers are a very good example of professional drivers. They run their farms. They have a lot of personality, some less. It's like any other business. I think we should consider stopping, when discussing farmers, talking about them in the context of being a hired man. These are professionals who do business. I think it's a very good time to start there. I think it is appropriate to consider, too, a mere prayer organization. I don't think I'm taking too much into my mouth when I say there are no producers of goods or traders in Iceland who have an organization that has such a position as Iceland's National Association. I don't think there is a group of manufacturers or sellers of service that at one time negotiates with the State the implementation of their crops in a manner similar to farmers. Thus, this setting on the operation of farmers is very special. You can even go so far as to ask: Is it normal for such an organization as the Farmers to negotiate with the State? That's a basic question. Let's take one example, if the producers of furniture or those selling computer services fell into organizations and get a position that they could cancel their products by contract with the State as a whole, I don't think we'd appreciate it. I like to mention that there is a lot of speciality in this regard. I know that I don't know exactly, but I'm not sure that more parts of the world's population are getting along with farmers. I doubt it. I may be wrong. Now there are others who know better. I may believe that Norway has a similar arrangement, but I'm not sure that this is the final or common arrangement in dealing with the manufacturer's agricultural products. People have noted regional policies, the need to stay in the land, and this is done by supporting farmers. Everything's fine. As a matter of fact, I think it's a wrong way to apply contracts on food as a good urban policy. I don't think that's a good way. Despite the fact that we have used that method for decades, the number of farmers has fallen greatly in recent decades. The number of flowers has been greatly reduced. According to figures I got at a farmer's.is, actually from 2015, I didn't find in the whip of new numbers, there are 6,700 farms in the country, which are exactly 3,150 at the time of agricultural production. I think it's right that we admit that farmers are professional farmers and farmers should be free to do what they do for their markets. They are not to be virtually obliged to be within the system we have created. They are to be free of markets and markets. It really doesn't mean that, and it isn't suggested in the bill, that you should put down the Farm Group or that farmers can't bring in an organization, that's all right. Other professions have an organization on their interests, and they can completely establish sales plans for their production if they think it is right. There has also been a marked debate about competition and in the United States, agriculture is faced with great competition. There have been numbers about large foreign manufacturers. I think it's true that all the business in Iceland is in a fierce competition with foreign people, and some of them are no small business. There are no restrictions or protections enjoyed by humans in the political rivalry. The storekeepers of Laura's 25 - year - olds have no contracts with the State to cancel their production when Hennes & Mauritz opens up many camps in Iceland. It's a pretty big business chain. It's the same with IKEA in the housekeeping business. We can't think of that. It is said that in order to meet the competition, big business needs to be met and that it needs the Lactates. And that Laxamsaan, with a 95% market share or about, has to be large and must be free of competitive laws to resist competition and to be able to manipulate men. I think it's a big misunderstanding. I think it's very normal that a company with 95% market share is under the same laws as other enterprises in the country regarding competition and competitive surveillance. I remember when the GATT deal was made and in the dough. It was then assumed, and in part, the import of agricultural products would increase. At that time, 25 years ago or so, the basic requirement for agriculture was to prepare for that competition by being able to have large, strong businesses. That was one of the main reasons why they even did so. The new Galalla was spared competitive laws so that she could be large and strong and meet the competition. Now that she has 20 years to meet that competition, she still has to be big and strong to meet the competition. Thus, it is a long time that humans have to enjoy the special situation in order to meet the competition. I remember, too, that at the time when people learned that ice would be introduced from abroad without paying tolls. As a result, world failures and producers of such products complained that this would cause Icelanders to stop buying Icelandic ice cream and eat foreign ice cream. What has been the case? Yes, she's become, of course, that it's, I think, made ice cream more than ever before, Icelandic producers than fancy and best ice cream. And it's also ice from abroad. But I think and I know that the market share of the Icelandic part of the ice is strong and good. We eat Icelandic ice cream. It all went well, but it was expected that this production would completely fail if it was released into the import and freedom. I think it can be totally debated whether this freedom of agriculture to manage things like those being treated now, e.g. In the milk industry - people have spoken extensively about economic gains, and this has yielded a great deal of benefits to consumers. I don't know how to handle the numbers, but I do know how to do numbers from the UN survey made earlier this year, where there were increases in food prices. It is specifically stated on the basis or explanation of the survey that at the time of food prices in general are decreasing, the price of dairy products is increased by 7.5% at the time of the study. So I don't think it's quite something. I'd like to reiterate that the professionals, farmers, are fully capable of standing on their own feet. And when I say on my own feet, I don't mean it, because at the interview earlier, people talked a lot about whether people really shouldn't get a scholarship and whether customs protection should be taken away in a single winter, I'm not talking about it. We are not here to talk about the fact that it is, in that sense, an unregistered import, i.e. that the State, in common, wills, or will not support farmers. I think a rich will exists in the community to support farming in their farms. It will continue to be done. But I think we can do it completely so that it will be better for farmers to do it for consumers and for society. After all, competition, no matter what it may say, moves and motivates innovation. It will happen to farmers as it does to others. We, at least Those of my age and older, and perhaps even some younger ones, may quite recall the discussion that took place in Iceland at the time and the fate of industry in that context. Industry began to interfere with the membership of EFTA. It was a very difficult year. There were many factors that happened, but there was also much to replace. I think that if we'd kept ourselves protected from the Icelandic industry, as was done for the free trade agreement with the Economic Community in its time, the industrial community would not be a whip in sight, would be far from the point of life, and we wouldn't be very proud of that trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u198	A respectable president. I'd like to direct questions to some of them. Senator. It was noted in his speech that farmers are just like other professional drivers, pointing to furniture production as an example. But now farmers are the cornerstones of each region, more often than the citizens of the country and cultural values, and have bound an organization to negotiate their products. What does it look like? A senator would be wrong with the collective agreement of farmers with the state of his affairs? Is it normal to break them up in a way that violates their social systems? Should the same be true of the labor movement, e.g. and the consequences. A senator said that it would have been for the settlements of the country and that agriculture would result in collecting milk and farmers getting the same price for milk as do consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u199	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. I don't see anything wrong with farmers carrying an organization. I don't see anything wrong with the fact that they'd be conjugal. What I'm talking about is that they have an organization that has a special place in the law. We have laws on this particular organization and their role. Bus chairs are widely available. Men who run all kinds of businesses, they're all busties in their districts. Should we create an organization of livestock that makes a deal with the state to keep small fishing villages in place, make a deal with the state to cut off their fish? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u200	A respectable president. We know that convergence in the land may have put this nation where it is to be built on economy. Of course, we don't have much market. In the case of food security, living with it is essential to a small nation in the North seas. That's where farmers are key. It's also environmental, eco-efficiency, carbon tracks. It's important that we can produce as much agrienvironmental products in our own country, and we're not moving them here, with the most necessary ecosystems, all over the world. If the result, if the bill is approved, is there any concern to the development of the country's farmers with its consequences; the import and insecurity of food production? What effect does this have on the many environmental, climate, and the consequences of global freight transfers; a product that we could produce here today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u201	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for good questions again. I don't see a link between its predecessors and these consequences. I don't see that agricultural eco-efficiency is changing, although farmers are not bound together by law in the Bavors Association. I don't see that agricultural competition has the impact here on national food security. Well, I kind of have to say, I think I'm a little confused. A senator may have little faith in farmers if he thinks that they will lay down and quit. I just don't get it. I have full faith in farmers, that they will manage and produce good food. I don't have much to worry about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u202	Mr. President. I can totally agree with what this bill's carriers say in a report, that I have always considered Icelandic farmers to be independent professionals. I think it's very important that we keep it up. But I'd like to go inside. A senator will determine whether he is not concerned that farmers who may not be on an all - way route but who are milk producers will not be able to get their product on the market in the same way that it is now. It must be part of this bill that the removal of a deportation centre to get the milk now and is one of the reasons we have this arrangement. I'm asking why. A senator: How will you make sure that isolated farmers can put their product on the market? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u203	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Yes, there is reason to be concerned about the subject mentioned by the senator. Then I'd like to say that it is a large and large company that collects the milk owned by farmers. It is now with the 95% market share. I suppose the owners of that company will make sure that they get milk from these farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u204	Same price?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u205	That's why. Isn't it farmers who run this business? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u206	Mr. President. Of course, there are many things that I do and what I do. A senator doesn't understand. But I don't understand how he's going to solve this problem, but that may be evident from the judicial handling of this case. We had a discussion in February last year on food safety and food production. Then, a provincial said. Seafood and agricultural ministers when asked for competitiveness and agricultural regulations, by permission of president: ▪ Yes, let's take a special look, including Work on grounds that are transparency and equality. The whole thing was to be examined, and she said at the end: Of course, we need to be careful. That's what I'm talking about. A senator of the same mind as the then marine emissary and agricultural minister? Does he feel that this bill is a sign that this is a reference to the warnings being given to the current marine economist and agricultural minister in February 2017: Let's be careful? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u207	Mr. President. I thank you again. Senator. Yeah, I think this bill is very careful. I'm not worried about that. I can't see, like a lot of dogs. Councilmen, this is total coal concrete. It makes me feel that men are at a time often talking about what is in the bill and underestimate our fine farmers. There's nothing more complicated than that. I can't see the stool if we make some changes in this arrangement. Farmers own and run their big business. They're not being talked about taking them out of their companies. That's not what they're talking about, just being talking about being normal. And if farmers can't run their companies for their own sake, I trust them to do so, but I don't know with any other reason. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u208	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator said that the price of food was used as an introduction to socialism. We're talking about regional policy, the importance of agriculture across the country, and the numerous roles of farmers. They come to a healthy land. They're in charge of the country. They keep the countryside built, and this supports tourism and so many other activities. Let's not have a complete mix-up. This is the vertebral barrier in all over the country. What's it worth? The bill says that direct support for further innovation and better use of land and quality will contribute to such projects in the market agreement. If we have a future contract, is it not irresponsible to go past a group of consultations for goods and take big changes? [[The president calls.]] We've come to a conclusion. We're working on it, and it's under way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u209	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator when describing a variety of roles that farmers play in the business of their farms. I don't doubt it. What I said about the price of food was that I don't think it's a good recipe for a more successful policy of success with the vertebral barrier is to buying food or supporting food production in those areas. I don't think it's convenient. I think there are a lot of ways to get the same, and I would even like to claim better results by supporting farm farmers in our country in ways other than the ones we've put great emphasis on without visible, substantial results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u210	Thank you. A senator for the record. True, there has been progress in Icelandic farming, as I did earlier in response to another senator. Farmers find ever more variety of ways to spread their products. At home, products are being processed and sold directly from farms, and that's very positive. But I wonder when. A senator compares Icelandic agriculture with trinkets and hílins, can this be compared to the response when something comes up? Icelandic agriculture has a high standard of purity and quality. Is it not worth it for us to protect what we have here and take heed to the advice of scholars regarding not being given all kinds of trouble? But we have full faith in Icelandic farmers because we can proudly offer our products.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u211	Mr. President. Thank you for a good question. I agree that there has been considerable agricultural development, better now, innovation and innovation, and so forth. What I meant more when I talked about regional policy and that it was a failure in that sense, and I think that was the problem. A senator must agree with me that in spite of that policy, farmers and land are reduced, farming is ruined. So this has not been enough to survive the loss of a group of farmers who live in many parts of the country. I think it's inevitable. I agree that we're supposed to protect the agriculture, but that's not the way it is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] To be honest, I hate to say a little bit when people talk about filling the country with bad habits if people get hurt to eat something from abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u212	A respectable president. Hv. A senator seems to mistaken the way it is to collect milk. It is a special company that handles that collection and makes some 80,000 visits each year to get milk. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because there is no mention in the bill, how that business should meet that cost. The bill simply expects the company to collect milk, and there's nothing more. How should the company run if they cannot cooperate with other companies? I'd like to ask you, too. Senator: What is the difference between the National Farmer Association agreeing to their remuneration with the state of the state over any other member of the Union who negotiates his employment with the state? Iceland's community was formed after the union of Iceland's Farms Society and the farmers'union. It's wrong if it is. A senator believes that farmers are obligatory to be members of the Basis. It was like that, but it's not anymore. Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator would really equal the production of chairs and production of food in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Will he eat chairs and tables if the land closes?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u213	Mr. President. That's a good question. I happen to be working with my father as a teenager to make chairs, and Jenka Soppa in connection with a large furniture factory in Akureyri, Valbjörk. I never thought I'd put it to my mouth, but I'm sure you can. But, no, I don't sort it in myself, and I think it's a rather insignificant twist. What I was saying is that I don't believe that farmers' business is basically different from any other operation that about him it needs to validate the system we've established. Regarding farms, it was good to review how this was with farmers and remuneration because that's exactly what I'm trying to say. We should stop viewing farmers as a profession. [[The president calls.]] We should think of farmers as professionals. That's what we're supposed to do, and I'm sure they want it for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u214	A respectable president. I refuse. A senator says that the problem is that it is outback. It's rather on the other hand, to the other hand. A senator has turned his face off. Senators. I wonder, though, what? A senator if farmers aren't supposed to negotiate with the state of remuneration, who are they going to negotiate with? Is it, then, that the senator's idea, and likely for those who carry this bill, that a farmer living somewhere, saying in the city, should negotiate with Hagar for his salary or the South's slaughter society? Who's the farmer supposed to negotiate his remuneration? If farmers are not allowed to have an organization among themselves to negotiate their employment with e.g. The power of the kingdom, to whom shall they negotiate? Or thinks so. A senator that farmers are expected to negotiate with members of the senator's council? Could it be that when they negotiate their salary, the contract bidder should be opposed? I'm asking why. A senator. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator really thinks that farmers, no matter what article they are, are not free to produce and sell their products. [[The president calls.]] Is it not true that farmers are free to produce and sell their products to those they like?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u215	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. First, I'd like to say that I don't have any special friends in the shopkeepers, so I don't speak for them at all or on their behalf, as I thought it would be. A senator is suggesting. Who are farmers to negotiate with? Hv. A senator used the terms ◯ of his profession. I refuse to talk about employment. I'm always trying to say that farmers make product. Isn't it? Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u216	It's a twist. To whom should they negotiate?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u217	- It's not a twist. They sell their products, and they negotiate on the same basis as any of the others who depose their products and services. They can do it through an organization if they want to. They can converge. But it is not the same that we have one organization of those who have a special role in the law and negotiate with the State the price of the product they produce.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u218	A respectable president. It's been a very interesting discussion tonight. The bill we discuss does not show that its carriers have given much thought to the work of the Icelandic agricultural environment, including the competition and development of world food production. Then it becomes clear that the bill is designed to protect the interests of a small, famous but financially strong group of food importers. The bill is an economic guard bill because the construction of this primary responsibility is a special care group that protects the interests of merchants and immigrants. Let's keep that in mind for the entire discussion, a respectable president. The bill leaves no doubt as to the purpose of restoration, that of its followers, or that of those who give it a worthwhile measure of interests. It's clear to everyone. The newspaper News News of the Days interviewed one of the representatives of the case, which appeared on permission of the president: ▪ The target of transport is to increase the freedom and autonomy of the manufacturer for the marketing of their products of national and foreign markets. I don't know that anyone is aware of how farmers or producers, or whatever they call them, market their goods. If there's any restrictions on it, I'd like people to come on a speaker and explain to us how they are and where they are. I know as much as anyone who makes agricultural products to market and sell them. A country of cow farmers, who have said that they do not recognize the lack of self - control or the need for independence to market goods. There are some farmers and producers of milk today, if we keep our milk. These include Bio-boot and organic milk manufacturers. There are also powerful companies that I think will grow and thrive tremendously in the years to come. I mention Eagle as an example, which is a great company, so I'll say it, but it's introduced new things into the market which was filled with need. Then there is another company, which is no small company on Icelandic market, but it is a giant importer. The album has founded the manufacturer called our farm. Of course, the album is also producing and in abundance a bunch of small rocking houses and is very good at it. We both have very small and immensely large and strong producers on this market today, and I'm not talking about the Velcro. The market manager shall collect milk, stands in the bill, and then the expected cost. I asked in answer to what. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson's mind. "Furming." is the gathering of milk. Is it that way according to the bill, because it doesn't show up, and that's why we have to ask, that this company should collect all milk and then divide it out according to certain rules mentioned in the bill, but can't work with those who produce milk to provide economy or such? What is the meaning of that thought? If it's not about the manufacturer's freedom to manufacture and market their products in a foreign country, I'd like to point out that trade with agricultural products is not like business with other products in the world. If they can help me see that it is, I'm asking them to do it. You see, that's how it is, for example. 93% of the milk produced does not cross borders. The milk is not transferred from country to country. This is an FAO warrant, so it is definitely submitted. The World Trade Agency reports, because on the bill there are the main cheerleaders of the EU application for the market in the European Union, as stated in the 2017 opinion, that agriculture will continue to be highly protected. The EU uses considerable business protection to protect its agriculture. The EU is one of Iceland's business areas and, of course, the British is a very important land for fish and agriculture. Let's hope we still go out to the British, get on with it. They say we shouldn't have any tolls on farm products. Does this mean, then, that we will remove the small farm products that remain? The European Union has a full toll on a number of products produced and exported by Iceland. In a coma, there are two individuals, excellent pioneers, who produce cheese snacks. They produce them both in Iceland and in Sweden, but they produce them in Sweden because they are not allowed to export their products into the EU market. At the same time, the speaker says, "We're supposed to remove all customs. " On permission of the president, the newspaper reports: The Contestant Commission's view is not one of the government's knobblers to choose from. It's true that men don't pick from the Contestant opinion. The U.S. Governing Body is to act like everyone else. I reiterate that I don't think the United States Council is worth the law and will of the Generals when it comes to agriculture. It's amazing to see how that government goes, for example. against milk production in the country. It is clear to the Generalis, the clear will of the legislatator, that certain leaves apply to that operation. Hv. Pétursson " Þórarinn same thing was true of carnivorous production in the country, and I wholeheartedly agree with him, " said the Council of 147th, "that I rather than 146, where 2 gr. That bill discussed how carnivorous people could unite, cooperate with one another in order to achieve a specific economy, to achieve the management that has taken place in the milk industry in the country, and to make it possible that we still have a strong milk industry. A respectable president. I would like to restore that bill, not change it, since I make no doubt that the same or similar arrangements apply to the meat industry. Then there's the Contestant Board suggestions, so we'll continue with that agency. I have to say, I have a certain respect for the SEC, except when it comes to the obsession with milk production in the country. It is totally unnatural how things are being handled. But the suggestions of the Contestant have been radical and sometimes outright hostile, to say the least. They have been very radical when it comes to agriculture and national and national interests. Among other things, monitoring has suggested that all tolls of milk powder be eliminated. I don't know if everyone in the hall or those who are listening, who are certainly not very many, realizes that almost all of milk powder can be produced, that almost all products of milk, if not all, can be produced from milk powder. But what does the Contestance Commission suggest, and prospective CDC officials and those who speak for freedom of custom? They recommend an Icelandic milk industry needed for 90 k. on the litre when it comes to milk powder for production, we compete with the factory preparations that need about 50 bucks.? Is it the environment where the tourists take up the bill? Is this what they mean, that Icelandic agriculture can successfully cope with competition and can survive import or survive a change? Is it what people are wondering about, competing with a product that can remember so much, nearly half? I believe the Generals' will for agriculture is clear. The general has so far, and I hope that there will be no change, wanting to have a powerful agriculture in Iceland and to ensure a certain food security - I'm going to use that word even though it's not popular, which I don't understand because it's very beautiful. Regarding what we consume or eat today, we produce about 50% of the energy needed by the Icelandic people. We can't just get away from it. That is why I am taking note of members of the council who saw the importance of this year's exception to milk production from that part of a competitive song. It's been quite a change over the past few years. Today there are 570 cows in Iceland. These are the family farms, not the factory preparations we're talking about, that we have to compete. The number of clients has dropped from 1558 to 572, and this has actually been since unity and cooperation began. - No, I'm wrong. Hv. A senator shakes his head, and I thank him for that. This is from 1990, I forgot the year. Yet, that is a huge economy or a 1990 reduction from 1,558 inhabitants to 572. There's also been a lot of deposit. Today, we produce from 155 million gallons [55 million L] of milk instead of about 107 million gallons [ 107 million L] in 1990. It is permissible for all to collect milk today and produce it. Well, there's a lot of innovation in the industry, fortunately. There are both great and small people who care for it. I say again: It's a good article that's going well because people have found good luck to work together. I'm going to give you one of those new creation companies called Health Proteins. It belongs to two of the so - called large parties, which are very little in comparison with European manufacturing providers. Health proteins produce mosu proteins that would otherwise have gone into the water or had to be disposed of. Imagine the environmental savings that will be of that. But I understand the bill so that the members of the company can't work together. They must not work on the environment that is there or create the valuables that will be generated from an existing product that would otherwise have gone into the ocean or that would have to be disposed of in any other way. As I understand it, the bill forbids such cooperation or cooperation. It is very tempting to wonder if the bill would be changed to make it clear that the company would be able to operate in that sector if there was any possibility that the Contestance would allow it. The answer is no. Then a man wonders, and I have not received an answer in a talk: What nation or state does not somehow defend his agriculture, customs, charges, or seas, or some kind of strength? New Zealand was mentioned today, which is the worst example you can find. They go to jail if they take the lambs or just some food with them into the country. They won't allow imports. That's a crazy thing. In the hall there are various groups of people who look to Canada and believe that it is under the power of a social calendar, at least a center, a man of great freedom. However, he did not say long ago that there was no such thing as free agricultural trade. There is no nation that does not defend its agriculture, and this may mean that it may have to be built up or developed an environment in which it can compete with agriculture in other countries. A respectable president. Today, the Food and Nutrition Association of Iceland was conducted. It stated to one speaker, a professor at the University of Iceland, that organic and eco-friendly agriculture is the future, that food from closer to the environment is the solution, and that Iceland should aim to be sustainable about food. I think it would be good for the operators of the bill to try to get out of the corneas and videos from that meeting and realize that there was a group of people who have full faith in the growth and prosperity of the Icelandic agriculture but that, of course, they need a certain environment and circumstances to do so. We do not do this by breaking it down, as this bill goes on, and opening the unbound import of agrienvironment products, which has also been submitted and discussed. A respectable president. In March 2017, the main topic of the bill came to light when the then minister published the bill. That's when they even came. in a statement by the National Association of Cows that the changes announced were vague, unconcerned, and the consequences of their depreciation. Under that rule, this is exactly what the bill says to this day. That's uncool. The consequences of the bill are not tried, there is not one character as to what it could mean, not one word. So we must ask ourselves, " Is the movement of the bill really putting it in order to create a better environment for our agriculture? ' [[The president calls.]] I think, and reiterate what I said in the introduction of the speech, that this bill is presented by the shopkeepers, entire sales, and importers of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u219	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator that this bill is presented with special interests in mind, the speciality of Icelandic consumers. [[Up front.]] That's the special interests I've been fighting for. What's admirable about listening to the agrier's proverbs here - the main barriers of the agricultural field if I could put it that way - is that the same people have no faith in Icelandic agriculture, no faith in the fact that Icelandic agriculture could compete for the least rotation, that it would go off in groups if the smallest gaps were opened. This is not a matter of opening any import, changing anything into the agrienvironmental environment, but primarily trying to open national competition at home and that this article falls under competitive laws. It's not that complicated. Contestation laws do not prohibit staging. It has become a economic advantage in this country, a targeted, stable, ongoing, subject to competitiveness. This development will continue. This trend can easily take place, either in the production of meat in this country or in milk production, under the hat of competitive behavior. There is no need for the exception of sectoral competitive laws to ensure that economic, economic, and progressive development can take place. On the contrary. That is exactly what competition laws do especially, defending new wands in the articles for the misuse of market situation. It is used as an abuse of the market, not as the market manager is in place. It is not illegal according to competitive law and not under obligation to break up such a business. It is interesting, however, to ask, because there is a lot of fear of taking away this exception, that there are basically two stories of it in the agricultural movement, including. The dairy business, whether agriculture, and milk production are the exception of competitiveness. I'd like to hear an answer. The senator on whether this article is an exception to competitive law or not. [[The president calls.]] In a matter of what. A senator could understand that this would be a significant exception and would ride the story fully if it were taken away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u220	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's about as funny to hear the carriers of this bill talking about them being consumers like hearing the professional football team say the same thing, quite amazing, because there's a harmony between these parties. It's the same speech, the same voice - not the same clothes as the man said about this year, but it's the exact amount we hear from the professional partner and the good people who carry this bill. A respectable president. The milk industry is an exception to certain rules of competition. That is indicated in the 71nd chapter of the year. it has to do with the agriculture. You can work together. Men may unite. You can manipulate. That's what needs to be kept, and that's what I think it also needs for the carnivorous industry in the country, so it can achieve the economy and growth that can be achieved and found. It's amazing that as soon as it rains. Councilmen, the senders of the bill suggest that competitive legislation does not apply to milk production, suggest that this limited release will be decommissioned, we have judgment from the European Court, then November 2017, where the conclusion is that agriculture in the European Union is permitted, with certain limitations, to consult on prices and quantities. [[A lot.]] Here's what we call a what. A senator forwards: Great limits. We've got a lot of restrictions in the law we'll discuss in this matter of competition in the milk industry. It is not that humans can do what they want to do. There are some sources that have proved necessary and will prove necessary, and we need to be provided with more than one piece of agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u221	A respectable president. Thank you. This is what a senator knows. In order to be properly thought, it is permitted to have a partnership under European Union competitive legislation as long as the combined market department of the partners does not exceed 5%. Here we are talking more than 95% for one person. Of course, there are two distinct differences. It brings to mind the discussion of this fear of competitive legislation that all other employment in this country is subject to. We watch, for example. so that there was virtually no discussion of the subject at the time of the council. Thus, only a few days in 2004 did this entry into law. I don't think that's even got time for reviews. There has been no assessment of the benefits of this exception for consumers, nor for producers, nor for the article itself, since the law went into effect. Refer to the article for convenience, and when it comes to milking, it is good to bear in mind that the greatest practicality in the milk industry was occurring just through the eating system of milk, which had nothing to do with this command but an enormous change in production methods for farmers themselves throughout the course of time, as well. A senator himself referred to his speech. This resulted in a dramatic decrease in the size and enlargement of the bilities, which eventually yielded considerable interest in the production of the milk industry. I have seen no convincing evidence that the exceptions referred to here, and so much fear that if anyone gets taken away, some great advantage has finally been made in this article - let alone that exception has paid a profit to the consumers. That, of course, is the most considerable thing about the gypsy. Senator. Food prices here are considerably higher than in our neighboring countries, mainly because of the domestic foods we protect most. [[The president calls.]] When we compare ourselves with the North countries, it shows that there is a difference. It's the interests we're fighting for in this matter, and there's no one else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u222	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator does not know how much land has been divided, and consumers have to inform him about it. Then we'll just do it on a professional committee, get some information about it because it's in trouble, of course. I'd also like to say what. A senator, since he speaks of consumers: Icelandic consumers and consumers in general, certainly wants a certain means of food at a reasonable price. Hv. A senator has received all kinds of responses to claims on food prices in Iceland, e.g. This, of course, depends on the standards being used. I can't wait for the bill to go to the pro committee and be discussed there. Let us say that people meet with the committee and review the claims presented here, statements later. A senator and his claims. Then we compare and see if we can eventually agree that in order to have a powerful agriculture in Iceland, we need to allow a measure of cooperation, and we also have to work together to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u223	A respectable president. I'd like to come up at the end of this good discussion that's been going on here on a very important subject and that I'm just going to have to say, "I'm going to get a little bit irritated because people don't seem to quite understand what's going on and what's going on in this, how things happen to the agricultural bitch." Before I discuss the milk, I'm going to mention the nickname 29% of the prices to the farmers. In the fall, it hasn't paid its way out into the market. It is simply this way, and they should know that the pay of the products has increased by 40% at the end of the past few years. two years. When consumers are not made up, wages need to be removed, so it is said. It's not that people were exploiting products, etc., which is just bullshit. This is the situation that lived. Regarding farms and farmers'markets, it is far removed that the National Farmers Association of Iceland can negotiate prices for farmers. It's just wrong. Sheep's settlements, e.g. it is forbidden to negotiate prices. Sheep farmers may provide guidelines. Period. That's the way it is now. The organization of farmers is the umbrella group of several special organizations that carry our commission in agreement with the state. It was claimed to be unique in the world except maybe in Norway, which is also wrong. Even in the European Union, farmers and farmers are known to negotiate with the European Union. It's supposed to be known. Iceland's community is a free organization, they're not a mandatory organization, it's not a duty. They take our contracts, take care of our interests, which is really necessary, and need to be done much more, so it's said here. I also wondered that in this bill, people do not need to be evicted from competitive law. My understanding of these blessed competitive songs is that if you're to be taken out of the restaurant, you'll have to look it up. It's been said in our ears so far. If that's a misunderstanding, we'll be happy to do it. Unfortunately, I think I'm saying the truth is, if the Galaxala doesn't have that kind of extravagance from competitive law, it needs to be registrated. And what happens then, about collecting milk and such things as many have been observed here, only at some marketing company, if someone out of town says to collect all the milk, to run on the Redsand e.g. and take the milk there and drive it to Selephos? I ask men to think about it, things aren't quite that simple, I'd say. It's not just a de-hide-bar that Laxamsa has this release from competitive law. You have wondered if those who produced this bill wondered what could happen, what the cost of sacrifice, for example. for increased competition and such. Have People Wondered About the Effect on the Ground? I don't think so. At any rate, it doesn't appear on the bill. This need to be kept in mind, and it is very important. I hope that this discussion has led us to the fact that we are in a global competition, and we need to have a strong business that can pursue intense market development, have new and fancy products, and offer consumers high prices. That is the key we need to keep in mind when discussing food production in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] It must be reasoned that we are self - sufficient with very good food.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u224	Mr. President. Words go. A senator may have called my attention on two matters in this matter, first regarding the local community as such. It is true that there is no ban on the changes here proposed to farmers working together as a team to share their common interests, far from that. It may be merely dealing with the features of the law that turn around that farmers are bound by the treaties of these same organizations, regardless of their involvement or not. That is what you may be wondering in view of, e.g. The question of whether farmers are hired or independent from professional workers. We know in the case of the employee movement that it is certainly a business and employee based on the contracts made at the labour market for minimum payer income, but that employers are bound by treaties, prices, agreements, state support agreements or other agreements, government agreements or any other organisations that make agreements, without involvement in organisations, I do not consider the normal structure of the individual employment drivers. Of course, they have full freedom of society, full of freedom to choose an organization, establish it, or participate in existing organizations. I wonder why. Senator: Is it really necessary for this to be the value of an obligation, we can call, i.e. that farmers, independence from professional workers, are bound by decisions of organizations that they are not even involved in?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u225	A respectable president. The senator asks if this is somewhat of an obligation. I don't think so. The success of the changing social system was very variable among the interests of the organization. Let's get this straight. It's home, for example. Among sheep farmers who are members of the National Association of Sheep, after we changed our social system, we have a wide range of successes. They are certainly inferior to the U.S. cow farmers, and they are expected to play in the way people collect social bills and such. But I'd also like to point out that this is not achieved because it's only another year since we changed our social network. It is also true that those outside benefit from the interest care provided by the National Association. Granted, the local community is in agreement with the government regarding the support discussed here, but I restate on their having nothing to do with the consequences that have also been very much discussed here. I believe that it is so that the farmers outside will benefit from the organization rather than the rest. Then I don't see how, on the other hand, each of us is going to make a deal with the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u226	President. I am somewhat convinced that farmers will find out, like other ways in which they deal with the government, whether it is done within the overall organization of farmers or independent or in other ways. Actually, it's like with all the other jobs in the country that companies or employers interact with the government in a variety of ways, people come together in all kinds of agreements with governments, and even in different forms, and have little to do with it, I think. Hv. In his speech, a senator mentioned the danger of being such an exception from the pursuit of competitive laws, which would automatically take place in the Lacties business in the form that she is fired today. It is true that today, in competitive law, there is the authority for such divisions. She's never been treated. It would only be used after someone, we can say, a very serious fault of breaking the business on the part of the company of competitive law. It would be some kind of emergency policy of competition, and it has not ever been made available here on land at any time in the sense that such a warrant has been applied. Of course, what is interesting, and would be interesting to hear a word of why. The senator, on the other hand, is it not proper to complete the final separation between the collection and distribution of milk and then return to the processing and sale of the retail level, even to national legislation and regulations on how to distribute, to meet the apheresis obligations, etc. and, at the same time, business with anyone who chooses to produce products from milk. We have this model, e.g. for a land net in the distribution of electricity. [[The president calls.]] Ask yourself, " Could I not do the same with the collection and distribution of milk? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u227	A respectable president. Thanks for asking me why. paritaprevir Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson. That's right, I think farmers and I have it in history books about what it was like before the intercom became at the Galacamal itself when we had small products all around the country, and then we had a special system of sales that even used to be Radamals at the time. We can go back to the past on those subjects and see what they brought us. But I think this evening's talks have done well that it was not for good reason that these measures were carried out in terms of integration in the milk industry. Business management was being arranged primarily for consumers to get their goods and farmers to get a better price. That was key. I believe that those who are employed in milk production today do not want to go back in that material, rather, would like to achieve even greater economy so that the consumer can enjoy it. Then it was really interesting to learn that this would probably be all right, and the competitive authorities would just leave us alone. I am very pleased with that answer. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But if not, what will likely be contacted. A senator. I hope there's never been a test here, but this is what we, who are working in the meat industry, have been really scared to death so far, and we've been getting a lot of talk about this and all these matters that we've been wondering about. [[The president calls.]] That's where I own, for example. We wanted to cooperate on the exports and to work for the market abroad together.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u228	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in social security law, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes, these changes are dealing with delinquency of professional pension. Transporters with me are the entire group of people, i.e. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Ísleifsson Iceloafsson. From the Pirates are our associate Helgi Inst. Hrafn Gunnarsson and Halldóra Mogensen, and the Central Party also supports us with their representatives, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Auradótir, the Sigurður of Páll Jónsson and Birgir Þórarinsson. It's most recent to say that this is the second time people's parties deliver this bill. This is the first bill we brought last December as a group. I'm going to read you the paper with the bill before we go any further. Not nearly a year ago, the case is reassigned. At 31 st. track No. 96/2017 guarantees that a hundred thousand will be paid for by pensioners. a special vacation target for employment at the time. 23rd par. Act on social security. This is a special vacation market for senior citizens, which comes in addition to the common law's common budget of $25,000. per month. With law No. 116/2016, changes in social security and other laws, including The change in the social security pension system has been made that all special vacation limits due to individual types of income have been removed. Instead, they had one general budget of $25,000. This is true of all the incomes of a pensioner, regardless of their type. In the past, the default market for social security in pensions had been 109,000 dollars. After the accordion of the law, the change in employment interest was made critical and has been made necessary by the bodies of elderly and other bodies to eliminate the decrease in older citizens' income. Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson, who worked on the financial situation of the elderly in the case of an older citizen in Reykjavík, wrote an article about his study in the Morning of November 23, 2017. It shows that there is no need to include additional financial expenditures, and it may well be possible that financial benefits from the procedure may be being made by the financial expenditure. It is unmistakably that continuing work after the age of sensibilities increases the ability of the elderly to improve their prowess, especially those with the lowest income. Research has shown that work and effectiveness in later years contribute to better health, reduced isolation, and generally have high social value for older citizens. It is therefore suggested that the payment of a pensioner will not be impaired because of a job. 23rd par. pricing on social security The changes we, the party of the people, and the party people want to make are these: ▪ After Third Case. 1.mg. 23rd par. The law shall bring forth a new proverb, saying, Then shall the wages of the pensioner of old age be not cut off. And 2. Our bill reads: ▪ This Law achieves a value of 1 January 2019 and implements February 1, 2019 In fact, it's worth the effort to have been here tonight, since about seven, and really listen to stakeholders defend their own business. For three hours of beds, we've been listening to them talk about livestock. Now we're talking about people. We're talking about a social group, an older citizen. How many people would protect their interests here tonight? How many people would be on the rosary tonight to speak the language that the people's members now make for the second time? I'll be waiting. The report made by Dr. Arnþórsson, mentioned earlier, for the older citizen's Fégag in Reykjavík last year, is also well estimated, as he himself says, all that there is moderate estimates, including the impairment that the state's funds might be for if all the losses in older citizens' wages were removed. The decline is greatly reversible in taxpayings, infringements of rural society, indirect taxes, better public health, not to mention a better life for older citizens who have the opportunity to continue working. One might ask himself, a respectable president: " How many older citizens are the things that during this later period of life are ready and have the power and power to continue working? Are there many of them that we cannot put our arms around them when we know that a large part of them is trapped in a poverty trap? Let us see. V.E.G. Secretary of finance - I would like him to be here tonight so I didn't have to be talking about him at all -- when I was talking about it last year and the example he took was of 900,000 bucks. a man in Gardenville, Chairman or Commissioner who had 900,000 dollars. in a month's pay, if we really wanted to have it so that that you wouldn't be affected by your earnings. V.E.G. The secretary of finance forgot all the other teams of the law saying that pension rights and property taxes and all other taxes cut out what comes from social security. We're just talking about pay money, not the past. We are not talking about those who have already made safety in their later years. We're talking about the other honored President. I cannot help but understand why it is not overpowering that it will not cost a fortune to meet the older ones who really have health and ability and will to work but who see no reason to do so. The so - called holiday goal, which I would rather prefer to call the reduced pay limits, is 100,000 k. per month. What are the advantages of getting out of work? What will be left after the taxes have been taken? It's so small that it's almost nothing. It doesn't take to go to work. It's not gonna take that. It's better to stay home and be isolated, isn't it? That's where we're sending this group of seniors. We're sending him into social isolation and distress. More often than not, if older citizens who are leaving the workforce do not have a strong network and a family, they are at risk of isolation at home alone. They feel bad, and their health is rapidly deteriorating. I think the bill we put out here is such a public health thing that it should be undisputed. We should be able to get along and act in a way that shows respect for older ones and that we are willing to contribute to meeting those struggling. And do what we can to provide them with a carefree night of their lives. I hope, more dignified President, I don't have to contribute this bill next year after the discussion of agricultural products. It was a great discussion, but it would be a pleasure if the discussion of older citizens and the execution of a vacation market on pay would take five hours, not just half an hour, as I expect to be now. I have nothing more to say to you than that I respect seniors. I have respect for the people of the country, and I wish with all my heart that we can be united. If it does not cost us a single cent to change this, how can we possibly justify not doing so? I don't have any answers. I wish that someone in this room could answer me and could explain it better than the reports and statistics that I already have.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u229	Mr. President. Thank you. An excellent speech by a senator. This is very interesting and important. In the beginning, I say that the restoration has had the same goal on its policy list. On the other hand, there is certainly much to bear in mind. This is not necessarily as simple as a question. A senator puts up with him. It would be interesting to know if there is a problem. A senator, and I know that her team has been assisted by good experts in preparing the case, have considered some possibilities. Today, for the first time, we have 100,000 bucks. income markets. We also have the option of postponing a pension with the benefit of raising a year's pension if a year's pension is delayed or two or three. Then there is the question of interaction between the timing of the decision to go to pension and the amount of pension work, since people are not expected in themselves to be working full - time on pension. In that case, it is likely that a much better option for both parties, both the individual and the state's funds, is simply postponed. But what you're wondering about in this context is whether there is a sort of abuse of the system, if we can call it, people are going to start taking a full pension from 67 years of age and continue in the full - time ministry, which I intend isn't the purpose or idea with a bill. A senator and her party. If this change occurs, have you considered, or have you considered, what changes in behaviour might occur in the administration of a pension?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u230	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. What we're mainly looking at is not the question of delaying a pension, such as why. A senator talks about it. It can't be done indefinitely, but of course older citizens do it today if they can. What we're talking about is the fact that we get older and that we are healthy a lot longer, so people 75 years of age, 77 years of age, still want to work. It can't indefinitely delay the execution of a pension. I can't see in any way that the system would have to be abused and that people are going into a full pension because those who have and have already collected big pensions, as we generals and others have done, simply don't have the right to get one cent from the social security system. It's as simple as that. I say, it doesn't have to be simple. I often feel that doing nothing over my head is often and often just the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u231	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Rather than trying to make simple things complex, I am simply wondering, " What is the appropriate interaction? ' Fortunately, in recent years we have made significant changes in our social security legislation and are continuing to develop it. That's one part of it. We have even. altered significantly to improve the welfare of nursing patients. I think the income of those who take pensions solely from social security has increased by one 25% as they changed in 2016. This has been shown fine in the sum of these points. As an insurance agency on the rise in combustion, it was the best way to reach the most efficient group. This was an indication of a successful operation, although it was always possible to do better. We've also taken up an arrangement where you can partially take a pension, i.e. You can take half of your pension and continue working on half without impairment, without loss of employment, and then you have 100,000 bucks. the income-free end of the job. As mentioned at the outset, I find this matter very interesting and look forward to the discussion that will be held on the committee. But I think this is one of the elements that we eventually have to look into, the interaction of all their elements and what kind of pension system we're building up. Nor do we want it to be abused in some way, i.e. that people are actually taking pension money away from social security but continue in the full-time ministry, which is not the purpose of social security. But a committee must be taken to heart when it comes to the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u232	A respectable president. I agree with it. A senator says. Of course, the problem is not that the system is being abused, nor is it impossible to misuse a system so heavily equipped. That's $25,000. marks everything else that people have, pension payments, capital pay. Let us imagine that most of those who are more wealthy among older citizens have property and capital payoffs. They're doing a good job. Those individuals will not and will not be able to get out of the social security system, which we all know is originally built as a safety net rather than an additional one. It is built as a safety net for those who need it. That's exactly what we're calling for now, that those who can take advantage of it and who have paid in a pension fund all their life can take out their pension when they're ready and yet still have the privilege of working because their pension is often paying them and often only a few dollars in comparison with what they've contributed to their careers. I'm optimistic and think that if we take a closer look at it and it goes to a committee, we'll roll with many rocks. I am convinced that the report we're based on and that we have a modest plan to prove ourselves and show that we can do good things for the group of older citizens who really have a palace leg.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u233	V.E.G. President. For some of them, I'm not one of the traders on this bill, but a group of Central Classes is its supporters and partners. So the Central Party suggested a budget talk last year, i.e. between 1 and 2. Environment, this very point, that employment income would not reduce pension income income and suggest that it was transferred between 1 and 2. A year ago, roll - and - name calls were addressed to the opposing ones as natural rulers, while the officers of the United States were sitting by. A remarkable few things, not taking sides in these national wars, since this is so that the group that the bill will become law - perhaps between 3,000 and 5,000 people. These are probably the ones who may not yet have a very strong pension, for the generation now paid by old age is among those who do not have a very strong pension fund. Thus, as you know, people who are going to the pension area today in the general system get an average of 55% in the maximum of their last salary. Of course, a lot of people in this group are concerned about working as they choose, being able and willing, without any other violation of their rights. In itself, it is natural judgment Day failure to do so because of the added rewards made by men who earn the pension, they pay an additional amount of tax, so government funds are probably given up to 40% of this wage right back. And why do older ones use more financial resources? Yes, they may do better with their grandchildren or themselves and thereby add to their social skills, it comes back. Those who work and have health, ability, and strength to do so are more healthy than those who don't work and they don't become socially isolated. It is only good to say whatever the case may look like. I have to add that the Central Party has taken one more step here and has entered the registry, even though it has not been submitted for discussion. It is our bill that government employees can or may work until 73 years of age if they choose before retirement. These two issues - both this and that - are designed to meet our age, we are better health, and it is in itself a waste of not giving older ones the opportunity to work as well as to be able. The head of the senior U.S. National Association, Þórunn, Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddottir, has said this very well. She said at a meeting that I ever sat that older citizens don't go past the last day of sales, even though they add one year to their lives. You're absolutely right. They are natural people with a lot of experience, a lot of knowledge, so we too are in ourselves in order to build obstacles to their ability to work, to waste our energy. We're wasting our energy that we can use. I'd like to give you one example because it's only a matter of late, but I don't know what kind of work this way, according to the limitations that exist today, but you have, for example. Happily, the former industrial workers, known to know, know, know, and can provide good advice. They are men with or more 40 years of experience and know exactly what they're dealing with. This is just one example. I could give you an example of the one that might come on this 73-year bill I mentioned in a passing race, i.e. of university teachers who are sentenced to leave their jobs one month after they become 70 with a head full of knowledge and experience. It's a waste. We can't afford it. They're not taking jobs from anyone else, they're not taking jobs from younger people, they're not taking jobs from somebody who's on unemployment record because unemployment is almost unknown in Iceland. Actually, we're moving in tens of thousands of people to work, which is very good. Why not make it a point, then, that this 3,000 -5,000 group of older ones can work as he has the ability and will of the elderly? That's incomprehensible. But I'm optimistic. I expect, despite this bill, the Central Party will contribute between 1 and 2. it's just a suggestion that professional income is not a waste of pension income. I expect us to call back on the fact that men make it anonymously known what they have in mind and therefore give it to those who were either sitting by or opposed here the last chance to correct their ways and to meet the truly understood group. It's the meekest group in Iceland. This is the group that demands nothing, makes no demands, walks on its own each day without murmuring. They don't deserve us to build any fences to their survival efforts. It's just embarrassing to do that. I'm happy that the bill is on schedule, and I really hope there's a quick release on a committee. I hope that members of Congress are on the level of the opinion that a group of older citizens deserve to be paid to improve their quality of life, as this too is indicated. Other than that, I say again, we as a nation can't afford to drive people away from jobs that want to work. We cannot afford to reduce the quality of life of people who want to save themselves. We can't afford to judge social isolation people who want to be active members of society and we can't afford it and we don't have the right to treat people who have actually built up society and made Iceland the country they are today. We have to look at it again, Mr. President, that the group involved in this bill is one of the last groups in which the pension rights of the living are lost, because, despite all, pensions in the right direction and pension rights go in the right direction, those who go e.g. in ten years of pension, it is likely that significantly better than those who are determined to enter the pension now. I say again: Let's get together and make them better for themselves, to improve their quality of life, to do better with themselves and to participate more fully in society as they choose, and to be able. Let us not put a stone in the path of those people. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u234	A respectable president. We're discussing our bill in Floki's that older citizens can be allowed to work without impairment. There's been some small talk here before. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson mentioned delaying pension, whether it was acceptable. I say no. I encourage every senior out there who can work and work to take a pension. Pay his taxes, put the other on a book, it's a coin you've got. If people can do this for five or ten years, they have a lot of money on a book. When people fall away, they are inheritable. If people fall off and have no heir, they'll be gone to the pit of the pension fund. These are the only safe money you have, if you want anything out of this pension system that you've been paying for ever. Let's watch something else. At the same time last year, at the same time as this bill was first shown, laws were passed about half a pension from a insurance institution and half from a pension fund. The most remarkable part of the bill was that it was so remarkable in terms of what was going on, and yet it was, what should we say, the forward, because it would be out of order for you to get half your pension from a insurance institution and half from a pension fund and to work as much as you would like. Those who made the most of it were the high-priced people. What was even more surprising was that those who received $120,000. From a pension fund, they didn't get anything. Those were the ones who needed this most. They couldn't enter this system. Predictions in every piece of shit were going on there. I know they're going to try to correct this and create a system so that there'll be a decline. But what kind of stupidity is it not to look at this whole thing? How can someone think of telling people that they cannot work? If you think of it after he's 67 years of age and still working, we're going to cut him down. Not just a little, no, we're paying him 80 percent tax. At the same time, we see people with capital pay of up to 10 to 15 million a month, a second hundred million a year. It's worth 20% tax, two cents in ten. But what about an older citizen who is trying to save himself, and his pension is not enough if he is going to work to obtain food or medicine? No, he has eight cents in 10. If this is what I call justice, I'm just saying, "What's wrong? What does it look like? This discussion always says: "It doesn't work out. We cannot have it so that people can work, and there is no impairment. You can't because those who have the highest pension would make so much money. But it doesn't make sense. Fifty-five thousand dollars. Pension funds - predicting this, perhaps this is a coincidence, but is it chance? If we take the senator's salary of 57,960 percent of them, for a senator who made a full pension, he would have earned it a long time at the council, what will he get out of? Near those incomes, 560,600,000. What does that mean? Yes, if this senator went out to work, he would be out of Congress but would get another job and get 100,000 bucks, he'd pay $37,000, say 40, he's a high-prior, up to 40,000. I'll tax you. But the other one, the worker who gets 100,000,200,000 bucks, goes over 100,000 bucks. The pay line to 200,000, he goes to work and he's going to try to save himself. How much does he have to pay? 80% tax. Is that justice? I say no. It doesn't make any sense. There's another thing about this that we always forget about in this discussion, that's the tax that's already at the pension fund. What's the state getting out of the pension fund on the decrease? Let's take this question from what? paritaprevir Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, at the 146th legislature of 2016-2017. It shows that in microenergy pensioners, this number is 7.5 billion, 30 billion in pensioners. A combined of 37 billion who are reduced as a insurance agency would have to pay, they say, "if a pension fund has to be cut off. " IRS isn't in it. It claims that this system, a system of delinquency that has been built up, along with many other systems for micropence and their wages, is insane. If you get a hundred thousand bucks. I want 80,000 bucks. to tax or reduce a person's $20,000. left. Then you will get to work. Every wise man sees it doesn't make sense, can't work. In a year's trip, as it's been in the past few years where we need to work and we have to move into a labor force, there must be one of the stupidest things we'll do to those who want to win: we're gonna see to it once and for all, that you won't get out of it if you have the nerve. But if you have such a good pension, if you're on high wages, you've had it all along and you don't want anything to do and you don't need it, you can work. But what if you need it so as to buy drugs, live a decent life, or just because you want to work for company? No, then we're going to punish you. When our bill was submitted last year, there were several members who sent in reviews. One of them was from the Icelandic Human Rights Office. Its review, with the permission of a president, was as follows: The European Court of Human Rights (MRSI) office of Iceland has received a review of the above - mentioned bill to legalize social security legislation. The bill suggests that the payment of a pensioner will not be impaired because of employment. MILLIONS believe that change is needed from now on. While it is assumed that there is no incentive for any who want to work and have the ability to do so, if the money from public security is impossible, it will be taken into account that there is no motivation for those who still want to work and have the ability to do so, we will be limited to almost all the commercial resources that are available today. As a report on the bill suggests, continued work after the age of sensibilities increases the ability of the elderly to improve their prowess, contributes to better health, reduces isolation, and has high social value in general. Hence, MRSI is estimated to be a significant increase in the spending distances. It clearly shows that these are human rights. There's a violation of human rights. It claims itself, and it is crystal clear that the prohibition against work is one thing, but when it is done in such a way that people lose on it, as is done in the case of an invalidor, and now we also have something wrong with a pensioner. There's something in the system that I'd say was actually broken. We need to fix it, clean up and change it, get out of this weird box that's put all this system in. We have to start thinking the system over completely. If we start here, in sensibilities, I am absolutely convinced that next time we take the step, we'll take in micro-life support. The whole system is good for people to win. The European Commission sent in comments to the bill. It says, under the permission of a president: • Supporting and highlighting the delinquency of the reduced age, disability and rehabilitation of social security for employment. Thus, there would be a greater scope and attention to all pensioners. Microenergy pensioners are in the age of (18-15666 years) and are the most important people's professions. It is important that people, including those with impaired working ability, have an opportunity to do business and also carry out some of their employment skills. Social benefits need to be carefully investigated because of the exception of pension payments for employment. It is estimated that the sector of a pensioner's income will increase as a result, as well as the tax pay on the state funds. By increasing employment support, microenergy pensioners could improve their provisional income and improve their spending in the pension fund, thus improving their status for the later years. But then we always forget one thing. What happens when an invalid becomes 67? Yes, it is. It's a miracle. It's a government offer. By order of the government, they'll be fully sound. He's no longer an invalid. He's become a pensioner. Then there's just a whole different situation. It must be a little strange when we think of an invalid who may have been his whole life in the position of special supplementation and has never been able to move in any way, but as soon as he becomes 67 years old, all of this disappears and becomes a new system. He's only sane by the administration of the government, and he's entitled only to what comes with pension, and in most cases he heals in the system. He may have no choice but to try to get his job, but his prospects for work are far worse. At the end, I want to see that there is no problem with calculating it, and it's only logical and reasonable that we should make sure that there is no place in the system so that we have said to people: You can't work. And if you're going to work and have a pension from the State Insurance Institute or Pension Funds, we're going to cut you down, we're going to tell you not to work. [[The president calls.]] It's the stupidest thing you can ever do, and this is the stupidest thing we've ever set up in law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u235	A respectable president. We're here on bill to legalize the social security law. 100/2007, with subsequent changes, which have been several. This change leads to a decommissionment of a pension because of employment. I welcome the bill, consider the discussion of change in this direction of justice, and hope that during the council it will bring benefits to the older citizens in a positive and upbuilding way. I support the bill and its content. You see, we've been mistaken for a while, in my opinion. We have, as mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. Senator earlier, you've been wasting your strength. Here we can activate, here are a number of activations and goods, and they're all environmentally friendly. It can be said that it is not an independent goal in itself that as many elderly people are involved in the commercial work, working as long as possible, but that humans are free of charge in this regard, i.e. that those who choose and have circumstances may choose to work long or long beyond their age. The percentage of senior citizens in Iceland is the lowest among the OECD countries and their sector is large, greater than in our neighboring countries. Over the age range of 65◯69 years, it is at least 53% but the share is much lower, e.g. correspondent in Britain, Sweden, the Netherlands, and Denmark This is true despite the obstacles and discouraging systems that we enjoy today. In most developed nations, it is customary for people to retire rather early. The Icelanders do less. They'll go to a pension later. This policy of industrialized countries is the result of government's desire for a short period of time to urge older people to stop working in order for younger people to get work. But with the change in age, less demand for a job in younger people, and more demand and supply of older citizens who want to work must reconsider that thought. People are now more healthy, and more can stay at work. It uses and adheres to the World Health Organization's view. Foreign research has been conducted on attitudes toward middle - aged or older people at work. Studies and assessments have been performed in many places. These studies have been conducted because of theories or viewpoints - that middle - aged or older workers work slower, harder than younger people with new technologies and methods, and thus younger people are more likely to be employed. Research has shown, however, that older employees are highly valued inside companies because of the costs they have. These include practical skills, experience, carefulness, job responsibilities, and a positive attitude. A recent study in England examined the experiences and attitudes of the directors of middle - aged and senior employees. In fact, those who participated in the study were all the managers of an enterprise within the trade sector. Main findings showed that the directors generally considered older workers to have better work ethic, more precise practice, better attendance, and more loyalty to the company. The majority of managers saw no difference between older or younger employees in solving their assignments sooner. Older ones were rather willing to share their experience and knowledge with others than with younger ones. The main thing the manager felt was that older workers could improve was computer skills and use in the world. In general, attitudes toward older workers were positive. " Is it possible to think about going to the job market? " asked. In fact, less than half of the respondents were at work, but a third showed great interest if it resulted in some financial gain, if it did not significantly reduce their benefits from the government's insurance agency. At the same time as the Generalate legalized changes in social security in the fall of 2016, a pensioner living alone in the treatment of an insurance agency was missing about one third in order to make money for minimal progress. This was the situation. Up to 50% was lacking in the pensions of the U.S. Insurance Office for the typical health - care practitioner's consumption criteria. This conclusion led Harpa Njálsdóttir, who is an expert on welfare matters and who has written and expressed this information for decades. The setting we live in, Mr. President, is quite unacceptable. Change must be made quickly. We should not be satisfied with the thought that the drop will hollow the stone. Like other citizens, local rules should apply to the elderly in the tax system. If they choose to work in a labour market where there is a great need for them - in Iceland, there is a need for all working hands, and we even need to move in labor to get what we want to do - there is nothing more to be done than paying taxes and fees, like any other citizen. We need to make sure that those who are unable to attend, or who choose not to, can live a decent life from their pensions. That was and the social security system is being thought, a security system for all the people of the country. Mr. President. There is evidence that the payment of the state and pension fund for retirement is about 10% of the gross national product in the other northern countries. There's only about 5% here, twice as much. This, of course, must be considered in the light of a variety of pensions. If you consider how much the state of one state pays to retirement in the North countries, the difference is greater. In the United States alone, more than 235.3% of GDP is spent in retirement, while in Denmark the state pays about 8% to retire. In addition, the pensions of the elderly and the disability of the elderly are much higher in the Norwegian countries than here. Mr. President. No matter how we reflect on this, we look at a social security comparison as well as a pension policy. Iceland runs the train everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u236	Mr. President. By the end of the night, I will strive to shorten my case by the prisoners. We're here for the delinquency of professional pensions. The case is here a second time, pronounced by the Gang and supported by a mighty storm. Councilmen from one of three other categories. Here we go, in the core of the matter, for two main reasons. It is the cultivated Icelandic view that, in the power of self - survival efforts, each person should be able to improve his own interests. The second attitude, which has been raised by those who may not have been very eager to see this legal suggestion, is that it carries a considerable cost to the public. Here's what we need to consider: The first thing is a basic, good, and valid attitude, although this may not be necessary with Iceland. There are also other viewpoints involved. Before I reach them, of course, I'd like to say that recalling the words of Kári, son of Sölmundarson, in a Brunu-Nvil story, where he says, "It's every man is invited to seek life while possible. To change, we can say: Each person is invited to improve his or her own interests whenever possible. Other factors have been presented here, and most people are unconcerned. These are factors such as those associated with public health and social factors. They've been mentioned so many times, and I don't have to go over them. However, regarding the factor that has been brought forth as early as possible against this bill, regarding the cost: on the part of the highest. The minister of finance has been complained that so many numbers have been presented in this case, and it is obviously very difficult to be a financial minister under these circumstances. But the numbers that have been heard in this regard are all from the Ministry of Ministers or from the Minister or His predecessor. There is only one number that has appeared on the part of those who have pronounced this case, and that is the number 0K, i.e. the cost is no one. It is the only number those who have promoted this matter. That number is supported. It is supported in a report that has been quoted. It is known as Kjörður of the elderly: An article on the economic situation of the elderly and is prepared for the older citizen's Fégaga, the author of which is Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson. This report is dated in November 2017. A author thoroughly deals with the cost of losing income, adding that many elderly ones want to work but receive relatively little of their pay if they are in a certain range of income. Then comes a publication in Haukur's report showing that a decrease in income may cost the state's budget of about 3.5 billion dollars. but more money comes into the state fund. The factors produced by a reporter, Haukur Arnþórsson, indicate income tax of less than 37% of each dollar, welfare costs, merit tax and product tax, revenue tax from increasing employment income, remuneration, cost of remuneration and product expenditures of increasing workancy and social impact. One author suggests that once these factors have been taken into account, which everyone knows is part of the tax system here, the benefits of the operation for state funds could be one 4.2 billion dollars, compared to the 3.5 that it would cost. Then government funds are just an accident at profit. Hence, it is not as if it is deliberately or hastily stated that this operation has nothing to do with government funds but could even benefit from it. I expect to benefit from the treatment of this case at any given moment. Named. It's going to be very interesting to see the reviews about it. I allow me to express my hope that this case will have a good and clear route here through the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u237	Mr. President. I'd like to say a few words in what I believe is a second part of a discussion on bill to legalize a change in social security laws involved in the delinquency of pension due to employment. I would like to begin by saying with those who have spoken this evening about the importance of looking overall at the ideals of older citizens. I think it's extremely important. I also realize that it is not entirely simple how to do so. Like a snooze. The members of Congress have established a wide range of variables that play in taking in all the national variables that are involved in moving in the system. I think that while we may be able to discern some of the ways in which we are on the ground, we agree that we want to vote for senior citizens in this country to be the best. Fortunately, many of the older citizens are ideal people, but they do not apply to all, and I do not doubt that even at the age of 67, they can and want to improve their rates. I think it's very good and good, but I already do. I'd like to include a welfare committee in this matter, but I'd like to include in the discussion that a member of the welfare minister is a working team who is responsible for reviewing the terms of the pensioner's pension. The team is to be delivered on November 1st. I don't sit in the group myself, and in itself I don't know what his resources have been or how he's conducted his work, but I just know that, according to the order, he includes. To consider the advantages of those who have to rely on the pension of social security for their own forwards. As far as I know, there's a group on their final meters at work. Here, the timelines fall together with a bang. The welfare committee, however, should also consider what comes out of this group designated by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs as well as three members designated by the older citizens of the United States. As I said before, I think it's very important that we look at these things completely. You never know unless there are any suggestions from this group that are useful to this work when we consider how it will be best to improve the interests of older citizens in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u238	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra for coming up and discussing the matter. It's kind of weird that she's the only member of the council that comes up and is ready to discuss it. I agree with her in this regard so that we also have to consider the overall terms of the average old - age pensioner because we're talking about a total of about 205,000. paid, which is very low, and we know that they are not alive. I must also point out that more than a week ago, there was a global day of poverty or a day of war against poverty. After the talk I was giving on that day, I was contacted by quite a number of people. What hit me the most was that the largest group of them, or 90%, was women with children and what struck me too, pensioners. It shows how serious the situation is when a pensioner has to live with his inability to buy food. I'm asking why. A senator will agree with the results that come from the government insurance agency that she has sent in on May 4, 2018. It says that the cost of this bill is 1 billion and 30 million. Does she like that? [[The president calls.]] This is the small amount that it should not be a big problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u239	Mr. President. I would like to say in the beginning that to my mind, social security in the country turns around to provide security networks that are caused by disability, sickness, or old age cannot make money through employment. It's my main concern to be the role of the social security system. I also believe that we should have the system so that it will support people for survival and that they can improve their terms. Hv. A senator asks me about the government's insurance records, and if I understood him correctly, because I haven't studied them closely, it's about $1 billion, according to them, to eliminate all the problems of professional pension. So there's a different figure than tonight, which said that the bill might cost 3.7 billion. It is said in a report that the procedure does not necessarily include extra expenses for the state funds, that even if it is possible that a government fund may be of financial benefit to the operation. There's a little bit of different numbers going on and maybe, maybe something. [[The president calls.]] I'm not in a position to judge what's right here, but I believe that when it comes to setting priorities, they should be placed primarily in order to ensure the basis for those who can do nothing else to improve their terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u240	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator answers. For the numbers she asks about, it's strange that in response to a question. paritaprevir In its own time, the Björn son of Leví Gunnarsson gives up the cost of the operation to over 3 billion. This response was received in 2016/2017, but the second number appears in the review of the Insurance Agency on May 4, 2018. It clearly states: The cost for those who already have a sentence on pension at TR is about 1,030 million. K. every year. Then there's some cash balance that can raise it. But Dr. Haukur's Arnþórsson Arnethor's calculations were of 3.7 billion, and he said that it was practical, would be a profit for state funds. That's why I say that if the latest figures from the Insurance Institute are right over 1 billion this is a fortune for state funds, and we can agree to say, "We'll accept the bill in a bang, and we'll hit it because it's an advantage for everyone. As I say, there are people out there who need help and need a higher pension to survive. There are also Icelanders who could earn something to try to save themselves. That's why I say, based on the numbers, we should get on with it right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u241	Mr. President. I'd like a later answer to repeat what I said earlier about the fact that I consider total importance to watch the interest of older citizens but also to watch and try to evaluate the overall nature of the change, such as the one put here, would lead to it. So the discussion today asked whether it could mean changes in behavior, i.e. that people would take full - time pensions and be in full - time service at the same time. I don't know if this scene has been reflected in the calculations that lay the basis for any of the numbers mentioned, either from Dr. Arnþórsson Arnethsson or from the state insurance agency, which is one of the things I think is. The welfare committee needs to sit over and evaluate and try to draw up a picture. I repeat, there is an expectation that an Outfit on the issues of older citizens will be due in the next few days. Hopefully, there will be materials that can be used so that we can make the best of an older citizen in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u242	A respectable president. First, I want to thank all those who have participated in the discussion with us here tonight and have to say that I'm lying about it. I just didn't expect us to get that good, considering what it was like a year ago. I am optimistic that maybe we don't have to make a recommendation next year, not the third time, do we? I've got to come into what's meant to be spoken. There is only one number that the public class has promoted at the expense, that is the number 0. Consider a much higher figure that came from the report of the son of Haukur Arnþórsson, which is about 2.5 billion, not 3.7, if I recall correctly, but the state's sum would be back to over 4 billion. This was, in effect, a profit for a government fund of $7,100 million. But if we were to take note of what an insurance agency said in its review that cost over a billion dollars, each of us will see that the profits for a state fund are 3.5 billion, so we don't have to be very sharp in account. The only thing I want to stress specifically is this exactly. The people's party has held one number, that's the number 0. Everything else is plus. Everything else is practical. We have more reason to believe that this change would be positive, not just for government funds, but for senior citizens, those who need and can have the opportunity to go to work. We have been disguised in our older citizens, our knowledge and their experience, and all the good things that have been said here tonight and that have been discussed in the discussion. I want to emphasize that I believe it and trust that it will. The welfare committee will take care of our case and will follow through on its fine, professional life. And once again, I especially want to thank you for the good things that have been done and the perfunctory discussions that we have had tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u243	V.E.G. President. I hereby propose a synopsis on the definition of resources. With me, the suggestion goes. The council of Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Árnnad, Bergþór Ólason, Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, Gunnar the son of Sveinsson, Sigmundur the son of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and Þorsteinn the Sæmundsson of Sedmund. It reads: The Council concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister from resource rights, environmental rights and environmental rights in order to create a bill to define what is considered to be a resource in this country and what Iceland's resources are. The bill will be submitted to the 150th legislature. The proposal of the same material was previously made to the 139, Pharisees, 143, and 145th, the first legislatator of the then council, Vigdís Hauksdóttir. The proposal suggests that environmental and resource ministers will be assigned to develop experts, such as resource rights, environmental control and environmental rights, to create a bill that defines what is considered to be a resource in this country and what Iceland's resources are. With the proposal, the Environment and Resource Minister is assigned to select specialists for the job but it is important that they have a lot of knowledge in this field, can work together, and provide a bill on the subject and reach completion of that work before the end of 149. The proposal also suggests that the bill should be submitted at the beginning of the Council of 150th. A relatively new field of education in Icelandic law and closely related to environmental rights is resource rights. In accordance with the nature of the problem, the resource rights apply to the rights for the management, use and management of resources. A healthy policy on resource use has not been developed to a significant extent here. One factor that contributes to responsible environmental behavior is that natural resources and the right to use them have merits, although in some cases it may be difficult to consider them to be valuable. Resource is closely linked to the use of natural resources. The right of nations to enjoy their resources is protected in national rights. At the UN General Assembly on December 14, 1962, a statement by No. 1803, which deals with national independence in order to assign natural resources. Says there, including that the use of natural resources should serve the interests and prosperity of the people in that state. This rule has been established in an international agreement on civil and political rights and international agreements on economic, social, and cultural rights. The concept of a resource is wide and includes many aspects of society. It is estimated that all aspects of nature, earth, life, water, sunlight, and air can be considered to be natural resources. Resources can be defined as national property, such as fish stocks. However, the government's involvement includes many resources other than those directly considered national property. The community itself can become involved in protecting important aspects of the environment, such as the purity of the atmosphere, and in setting rules on the use of animal strains and other aspects of the environment. Natural resources can be said to be a direct part of consumption, e.g. The outdoors and hunting grounds for wild animals. The resources that are not considered to be natural resources, the nature of the matter, for example mangroves, knowledge systems, databases, and other similar tasks created by humans. A number of natural resources in recent decades have gone on so much that there is a real shortage of many important resources, such as water and other environmental quality. Thus, many countries have striven to find and develop ways to exploit natural resources in a practical way, focusing mainly on economic administrations, which do not limit the use of natural resources, but, rather, provide practical means to make it a profit for the individual and for the overall interests of all. V.E.G. President. The Parliamentary arrangement follows a detailed report that I encourage members of the Parliament to study. It is long time that we as a nation define our resources by setting up the frames that have long been waiting for. I'm not going to extend this case any more, end up late. After this discussion, I suggest that the proposal be made for the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u244	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson Sigurður this case for bringing it here. I think it's wise to go through the work suggested in the Senate arrangement. We spend a few hours in this room discussing fishing costs in the fishing field, but at the same time, everyone here and, of course, everyone in the field is aware that there are many resources all over the world, a wide variety of materials and quality. I think it will be good for us to have this information taken together, to try to identify what is the nature of it, if one makes a decision, as if for the hunt, what are the exclusive rights of possession, and what are done that even those who have access to their resources should be encouraged to use them. I want to reiterate that I think this is a reasonable matter. I hope that it will be passed and will certainly be received in the Environmental and Transport Committee. I think it's good for us to expand the debate that concerns the resources and resources of the community we live in. According to that, I wish this proposal for the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u245	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for your transfer, huh? paritaprevir The Sigurður of Páll Jónsson for review and presentation of the language. As noted in the report, the proposal of the same material has been submitted before and more than once, as shown by the transfer of Hauksdóttir the Hawkdot at the 99th meeting of the General Assembly on April 30, 2015. The concept of a resource is immensely vast, with only a few examples of wind, air quality, earth, i.e. Our land, the fish of the sea, other animal stocks, e.g. our unique horses, our hunting grounds, virgin areas, outdoor areas, mattering territory, etc. As this brief list shows, there is an enormous amount of money that affects all of us in one way or another. Therefore, it is very important that the concept of a resource should be defined so that a general understanding of what is meant when considering the concept of resource and resource resources of this country, that all concerned in any way about resource languages have a similar understanding of the concept. According to Article I of the Parliament's smell proposal, the resource rights as an analyst are one of the factors that contribute to responsible environmental behavior. In some cases, though it may be difficult to consider the value of natural resources and the right to use them. December 14, 1962, at the UN General Assembly, no. 1803, which deals with national independence in order to assign natural resources. Says there, including that the use of natural resources should serve the interests and prosperity of the people in that state. This rule has been established in international treaties. The task and process that the Parliamentary proposal seeks to produce is long in time and must begin quickly. Mr. President. It is my hope that as many as possible will welcome this assignment and to the highest. In addition to the Ingi mentioned in the resolution, a broad group is Guðbrandsson to ensure that as many views of the definition get a voice at that level of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u246	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for a legislation on the change of partnership laws, private partnership laws, partnership laws and social laws (communication laws due to the percentage of genders in control). The transmissions of the bill are what it says, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándsson, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, Sæland Goad, Halldóra Mogensen, Elíasdóttir Fjordur Fjord of Elisdo, the Thorsteinstein of Sæmundsson and Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. In chapter I. par.), No. 22/1991, with subsequent changes, says: ◯ At 77 str. A new paragraph of the law will be added, as follows: A partner registry shall be provided with a day-to-day agreement which is not required in Article 4. 1.mg. Twenty-seven. Today's fines can study from 10,000 K. ... toa hundred00,000K. It is permitted to consider the financial strengths of a social group. Dags are running into government funds, and they're mobile. The minister is permitted to set further limits on day - to - day stress in the Regulation. Il. chapter 2. par.), No. 138/1994, with subsequent changes, says: ◯ At 126. gr. A new paragraph of the law will be added, as follows: The share list should be placed in a private part-of-part company which does not comply with the regulations of the 3rd and 4th suit. 1.mg. Thirty-nine. Today's fines can study from 10,000 K. ... toa hundred00,000K. It is permitted to consider the financial strengths of a social group. Dags are running into government funds, and they're mobile. The minister is permitted to set further limits on day - to - day stress in the Regulation. In III. section 3. par.), No. 2/1995, with subsequent changes, says: ◯ At 152. gr. A new paragraph of the law will be added, as follows: A partner file should be placed day-to-day in an enterprise which does not comply with the regulations 2 and 3rd. 1.mg. Sixty-three. Today's fines can study from 10,000 K. ... toa hundred00,000K. It is permitted to consider the financial strengths of a social group. Dags are running into government funds, and they're mobile. The minister is permitted to set further limits on day - to - day stress in the Regulation. IV. chapter 5 of the book of Daniel. par.), No. 50/2007, with subsequent changes, says: 5:30 p.m. The law's coming up with a new article, 51 st. a, as well as a heading, as follows: Dags finest. A fire file should be placed in a day-to-day partnership which does not follow Article 3 of the calendar. 1.mg. 13th par. Today's fines can study from 10,000 K. ... toa hundred00,000K. It is permitted to consider the financial strengths of a social group. Dags are running into government funds, and they're mobile. The minister is permitted to set further limits on day - to - day stress in the Regulation. In the 5th. The same section will tell you: ▪ This law goes into effect on January 1, 2020 This piece isn't long. It says: This bill is suggested to protect day-to-day if there are no gender-rate laws in the partner control. This subject was discussed with a professional health - care committee at the 148th legislature, and the committees met. with representatives of the female business community that referred to the situation in this country, it would be unacceptable to the proportion of women in the management board. With law No. 13/2010, for the change in partner law and private partnership law, there were laws on gender proportions in the partner control. The regulations came to true value on September 1, 2013, so a time of adaptation was given. With law No. 49/2011 was made comparable changes in Community law and Community law. This means that because of the average annual staff of more than 50, when assigned to over three persons, genders should be represented, but when making a government of three individuals, it should be ensured that genders belong to governments. In Norway a law on sexuality was adopted in the governments of a larger partner in 2003. It stated that the contribution of each member of the administration is to a minimum of 40%. Following the introduction of the Norwegian Law, the percentage of women in the administrations of a partner increased from 6% in 2002 to 40% in 2011. The proportion of women in the management of large companies in Norway increased from one fourth of the executives in 2004 to 36% in 2006, reaching 42% in 2009. According to Sissel Jensen, a Norwegian economist, the increased share of women is among those who receive the highest pay of direct consequences of sexuality. Women are more given the opportunity to be among the highest rulers when the government itself is made up of both men and women. These findings match the purpose of the law, i.e. that more women are being given the opportunity to influence business affairs. According to the Norwegian law, it is permitted to place a date on the non-registered enterprises. In spite of daily stress, if communities do not legalize them, a partner file can start a process that ends with the broken society. If a partner's list is an obligatory violation of a broken society, this case can be held before the courts. Although Iceland has followed the example of Norway, with the legislation on sexual sexuality in the administrations of a partner, Iceland has failed to achieve the same success. The lead-in period was given for inclusion of a command for gender proportions in governments, but the ratio has not been equal to that of regulations in effect has not been adhered to. According to information provided by Iceland's Habitat, 26.1% of the management companies were paid and enrolled at the end of 2017. The percentage of women in enterprises with more than 50 employees reached a maximum of 33.2% in 2014 but has declined since that time. The percentage of women in the management board of enterprises with fewer than 50 remunerations per year. Icelandic law on this subject is based on Norwegian, but it does not contain a comparable law. Transporters believe that it is time to make a legal effort to make a date on the non-syielding enterprises in governments to achieve their aims. I believe this is such a matter that the U.S. Congress should be able to unite, with members of all members of the council. We should be able to handle this national agreement, that I think, quickly and clearly, here at the council. I believe that this sort of thing is something that we should come through the legislation, where we are strengthening all the rules around laws that match the sex of society, whether in corporate administrations, in this case, or elsewhere. As a result, there is an increase in the strength of women in many companies, businesses, and administrative places in the community. There's nothing we can do for women there. Last night, at a mass meeting at Eaglehol, they said, "Don't change women, let's change the community. " I believe this is one of many chains in the chain of making society so that men and women are equal in all walks of life. We need to strengthen women to accept responsibility in corporate governments - they are ready to do so - and to be powerful members of the community, both business and business, or where their mind is looking. I'd like to finally refer the bill to the Economic and Business Committee after 1st. I trust there will be good treatment. I hope we can make this bill a law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-25-25.u247	Mr. President. It may not surprise me that I do not celebrate this bill because I am in my heart against the sex - fertilization laws in my own communities. I believe that such a law actually violates the rights of the Constitution. A person's right to take his share of money for a vote when it comes to ordering is at best at best a fall in the spirit of the constitution. I'll be there in a talk afterwards. I want to ask you why. First transferer Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir: Whether this was actually going to last, the law suggested, is that day's fines can be studied 10,000 bucks. to 100,000, but is it then allowed to consider the financial strength of a social group? It's a perfectly vague law. Nobody knows what that means. The financial strength of a community is controversial, and the strength of one company in a particular sector can be a weakness in another sector, etc. I doubt that this simply works out the requirements for fine decision making. It would have been wiser and better if, for example, men had. linked this specific percentage of seat, if they want another level, to go to the squares of the table as suggested here. I also ask, Have what? Tourists wonder what the consequences of such a day's fine could be for an Icelandic company? [[The president calls.]]
