ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u1	A respectable president. We will now discuss the terms of a financial arrangement for the year 20192023 on the second day. Yesterday, we received differences in viewpoints between the majority and the smaller parts, where either it was claimed that the world's record of reversal and targeted structure or fraud with the voters for the building of the welfare system and the rest of society. We're in the middle of a new plan. This is the second time that the General Assembly is working on financial and financial policies in line with official financial law, No. 123/2015. We're in a course of learning and experience, and there's quite a lack of new ideologies all the way to a red thread from beginning to end, but the opinion of what is being presented here continues to guide us. As a welfare committee member, I want to run through dog pools, as they say, over key things that hear under the committee in view of the fact that I have a very short period of time. There is no evidence that hospital emphasis is recognized in this financial program. An example of this is the unsurpassed development of demand. Therefore, neither the International Hospital, Akureyri Hospital, nor any other medical facility can respond to any additional tasks and constant demand and orderlines, as an example of the Rapporteur's judgment, national health care committee, and National Reconclusions, on the weaknesses of quality security and safety issues. An Important Scientific Work, including may attract qualified personnel with little attention. This is especially true of the National Hospital, the University Hospital, the Board of Education, a health - care provider in Iceland. It is also reasonable to point to the government's decision on equally pay, induction of new programme systems, induction of new personal protection laws and the implementation of EU directives for false drugs. There are cases of government decisions that lead to government costs at government institutions without being expected in financial matters. The conclusion is that there is insufficient hospitalisation, and what you see is highly underestimated. What you see in medical institutions, especially in the medical field, is a recession and continued failure of business and activities, retreat, and not structure. A new system of payment has made changes in the medical profession, and it seems that the capital area had a positive effect on it. In rural areas outside the capital area, health care, this declared patient's first stop, broken, and abducted person and sheep. There is no evidence of turning these institutions to the rescue. The management assessment is that the financial programme lacks at least $1,500 million. K. so that there can be a statement about the reversal and structure of the health care system over time. Specialized services, especially field experts in the service, and the communication between Iceland's Medical Insurance and Professional classes in this area, were strongly criticized in a recent report by the National Reconnaissance. No further discussion will be made on this subject than to point out a fine report by the Management Board. It is not clear how this service will be organized, operated, and what the need for this technology to serve and how. A suggestion that a structure program is put to death on this factor, which includes an earmarked money on the project, with exciting times ahead of you. Hospital transport is defined as part of a basic medical service. In Iceland the Red Cross has been holding hands for 70 years, since the beginning of organized medical transfers in Iceland. The current health secretary has made it clear that the same party will no longer be agreed with. This is presented without any assessment or benefit analysis that is involved in the change. It can be assumed that new operators will not be able to produce the environment on which Iceland's Red Cross has built its services. Thus, it might be reported that in the time of the current health - care minister, there would be a number of additional expenses that would likely be provided, possibly to the private person, for the current health - care minister. There is no information in the financial program on these issues. In recent years, health - care programs have caused problems between countries and rural groups. The rural population runs about 20 nursing homes per day as per contract. A contract between nursing homes and the government was made last year, which included the operation of the medical profession. in here are some increase of the day's expenses. Nevertheless, a number of rural areas pay substantial money through this operation, a total of about 1 billion dollars, according to calculation, each year. The financial agenda is not going to deal with this urgent problem. The government intends to increase the number of nurses by 550 on the length of the programme. According to the proposed financial agenda, this space is only a limited amount of funding and realizes that space will not increase unchanged unless the amount of money is up to 150 in the period, unless it comes into operation. So people are getting dust in their eyes. Besides, there is an urgent need for older space to be improved and to act in accordance with the change and increase in security requirements and construction regulations. It is not clear whether a realistic program is available for this aspect, but the amount defined for those projects is far from realistic. The cost of systemic medication has largely been replaced, but costs for new medications increase rapidly and so on, since increasing the introduction of new drugs has been necessary during the past two years. A real challenge and balance is to create an agreement on the induction of new drugs and bridges between expectations, scientific developments, and budgets over time. No doubt, the amount of money to spend on medication would be underestimated. Help tools are becoming more important, especially in the growing discussion, that people live in their own homes, and on their own grounds longer than usual. This is especially true for those who are disabled, who are now able to have NPA contracts and who need support measures. There is no way to tell us when to remove a so - called crown from a dollar as a disability and rehabilitation pensioner still waiting and who have left this group in a poverty trap. It is not seen in the financial program that new thinking and new attitudes have taken root in the choice of farm planning for elderly patients and in order to achieve the best quality of life. It cannot be concluded that effort is made to make it possible for older ones to live in their own homes for longer than usual, to have more options than to move to an institution, with or without a mate. It must be done by education, funding for increased extracurricular projects, and long - term institutions, e.g. Home - care, home care, home - to - house therapy, home - to - house assistance equipment, use in general in the field of health care and management so as to be able to move to a suitable home if necessary. A minimum of 500 million may have to be spent on this experimental project in order to show that this is a new course. The suggestion that a financial programme is covered with additional contributions to the birth of a stock fund to raise the maximum pay in maternity vacations at 600,000 bucks. per month. They say that it is intended to prolong or prolong or prolong your birthday ordinarily, but it does not tell you when it is suggested. Two years have passed since the position of a member of the Department of Social Affairs and Homing Ministers was supported in their findings a proposal for a maximum rent increase at 600,000 dollars. monthly. Counting the sum is at 645,000. in 2018. There is considerable reduction in available and unchanged plans. Government policy for the next five years to support children's families is affected and there is no plan to correct their interests through increased child reform or a change in the law of impairment. The section on housing is low and shows that housing policies are expected to await future labour agreements. Mr. President. In an effort to establish financial goals, two goals have been defined when it comes to equality, one is to achieve equal terms, and the other to reduce violence in close relationships, sexual, and sexual violence. It will be achieved by increasing cooperation between the education system, the justice system and the welfare system. When it comes to the implementation of the goal of remuneration, the emphasis is solely on follow-up of an equally paid position, which includes the removal of pay within the workplace. The interests of the employee group have repeatedly indicated that the primary challenge of the success of the full - time pay of the sex is much greater and therefore there are other factors to work on the pay of the sex. National political experts have repeatedly pointed out that measures will be taken to address the roots of each cause in order to equalize the position of the sex. None of these points are discussed in the suggestion, and it is urgent to correct them. There is virtually no coverage of operations related to the #methoo budget. It is noted that the central point of this revolution protected violence and harassment against women in the workplace. The government has taken no steps to help eliminate this problem at work, except for the work force of a group that evaluates its scope. Mr. President. From the above, it can be seen that in an equal camp, there is no joy or rejoicing over the vision to the next five years of our present government. This is true of the main focus, both in income and in the provision of common income and in internal emphasis. Hence, it is not surprising that the United Nations Congress party concluded that the financial program of the greater part is unrealistic, that political illusions and will promote further inequities in the community, completely unacceptable terms and preparations for certain groups of citizens. This is a sad and dishonorable society in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u2	V.E.G. President. The thing that we're doing here may be more important to them because of what is not involved in it than because of its content. Well, it's like there's income holes in this bill. They appear, for example, in that they no longer collect bank taxes of 6 billion, which could have been very successful, and then this terrible banker, who has been called such, is a natural gift for hedges, i.e. The government's share at Arion Bank, and the fact that the State was not to take advantage of the prenuptial rights that a concerned financial minister has stated that there was no room or power. It is not good to throw away anger over what is meant. So it is now discovered that if the government took advantage of the premium, it is now being sold to Arion's bank to a considerable extent that the government would obtain for the bank and, quite frankly, a price that would have happened to the bank. Secretary of the budget, apparently. People have begun selling property from this bank. People have begun to sell the land mines because they did not trust in selling Valitor, which may be the fattest bite in this bank, written at 17 billion or so, but the price is probably 70. This is the amount that would have been good and useful to be included in a financial program so that a government fund could benefit. For example, for this money, the ideal situation for the elderly and the poor might have been corrected, as these groups have been called. For example, there is one factor that we middle - class members renewed here in December. If you pay the bills, it's that old people's income doesn't reduce pension incomes. This would cost a quarter, but this would remember this group, which is likely 4,000 people, a substantial amount that would help them make better ends meet. Of course, the money that could have been planted by the bank would have hung up on the hunger lice that are now crawling in the road system, 5.5 billion for three years - that is, in fact, just to dust - and then vacuuming within the emergency room in half, up to 4 billion. Obviously, this is not a happy financial administration. The purpose of the law on public finances may have been to create a firm period of time, then to draw rabbits out of the hat here and where we're doing this. That may be what stands out in this proposal for financial planning, that's what is missing. What is also sorely missing in this program are additional legal expenses. Unfortunately, we've seen it lately - and of course, a man feared that this time would come - that the number of difficult and serious accidents is increasing, and tourists are dying here and getting hurt on a very large scale. That's very serious. The warning had been repeated, but sadly, for the deaf. The same thing is about the other side of a coin called law enforcement, i.e. customs guard. She's been covered with very little money, unfortunately. Police and Customs Together are the forces that protect us so far, the flow of material that we don't want, whether it's illegal weapons, drugs, or whatever it is. These factors are completely elucidated in this proposal. There is also one other factor that has in itself sought out the One here. He was willing to accept these laws in 2015, if I recall correctly, in December. Of course, it was in the belief that this was to promote better management with the government's finances over time and to increase the maintenance of government affairs, etc. But when you look at how these songs work, what you're going to do is that they're probably the largest medium of power that's been performed for a long time, i.e. from the General to the government system. This is once so, without me being in charge or minimizing their work, that they are not political elected agents, they are not. Those who hold on to budget and financial employment do not have to go into court at any given time, they do not have to be responsible. This is in itself being taken out of politics, out of financial programmes, and out of financial law. When I first came in 2013, leading both the background from a ministry office, I felt that it was trying to reduce the influence of elected representatives systematically using all possible means. This is one of the points we Middle Class have made when we have talked about the fact that the system has become all - out, and the political influence has become counterintegrating. Why is that so bad? That's because of what I said here, that's because of the responsibility the political elected agents bear. To this end, we are ideal here to have a short and long - term impact on the issues we most believe are being worked on in this country. As now, it is in the power of a minister to scour out a certain amount of money within his subject. But our influence on the generals, to direct influence there, is to a minimum. That's what I think we need to pay attention. Now I'm not suggesting that the public financial law be canceled, but I think it's time that we have to find ways to increase the impact of elected representatives on the government's financial affairs. What might be more painful about now is that financial planning is not a well - won document. She was late. We're discussing it in a race for time, poorly prepared. This work is not exemplary. Of course, this matter should be handled in a careful manner so that members of the council can have a good opportunity to take note of the plan and to form opinions on its individual components and be suspicious of it. There's something else I missed in this financial program. That's a plan or a reminder, if I can put it that way, about government management. There's nowhere to go. By uniting organizations, expanding them, you can save a lot of money. So it seems that very recently I had a meeting with a board of administrations and monitoring committee on the archaeological report. Archaeological research and archaeological management are at the hands of four institutions. That means there are four sets of administration within this sector. Of course, it's a very expensive field, just like a lot of other things. Perhaps the priorities of this sect have not been set, rather than many other aspects of this nation's culture and history. But we can afford four organizations to do those things. Now that I have not had the opportunity to do so, since it has not been since that time, to review whether the function of these institutions could be somehow overlaped, whether channels are not clear, etc. I'm not gonna cast a shadow on the activities of these four institutions, but I'm just gonna name it as an example of how much we're back on schedule. I think that would be a worthwhile assignment for that too. The budget is to carefully examine how many institutions we have, perhaps one or three men at work, one to three standards. We have highly educated people all over the country in small institutions, which in itself are stamping accounts into accounting instead of doing what these people do best. What is the result of united organizations? It's not just what I was saying that financial gain will be there and that we can sing down the administrations of these institutions, but that professional stroke power often increases substantially, because these institutions are growing stronger. There are so many reasons why we're using ourselves seriously in there. So I'm supposed to take this to a special consideration now into the next budget, which, in fact, are the first political budget to appear from this government, because the ones that we gave in December were government funds. There was no such political policy, they were merely mutilated, and many had no effect on their appearance. I have to mention one last thing, that's the hunting bill -- men were willing to reduce the price of hunting to a great degree, flat across. It was not to matter whether it was a Trillaman in the north or a major type of land. The reason is that the fishing costs should remain unchanged now - why they are given? She is that the council get away from work at a reasonable time. It is not that the people of the land are obsessed with the ideas that came out. That's not why they're backing it up. No, it's just so that the council can get home at a reasonable time. I must admit, Mr. President, that I think this is quite an inexpensive statement and not the one I would have expected from the direction it came. Of course, it is important that we take care of this financial program and give it up in an acceptable way, but it is still our duty here to address it and point out what could obviously be better handled by it. Other than that, I thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u3	A respectable president. I'm going to briefly draw out a few aspects of a financial program, one toward tax reforms, and one of the factors involved in the health of the health system. It is quite clear at the review of financial programmes that it is based on the government's policy declaration, where the main focus is on infrastructure, as many have shown. That is a tremendous effort, especially in health - care situations. Much more money is expected to be available to them. The nature of the situation will vary in a community that is no greater than the Icelandic emphasis on the internal structure of a relatively small number of topics, i.e. Health systems, transport and education, to some extent, affect the infrastructure elsewhere and, in fact, the Commission points to it, especially the welfare committee and to some extent, the Economic and Business Committee. It is also important to remember that neither can it stop us as a community that major projects have an impact elsewhere, and thus we should always get our feet up and get involved in them. It's worth remembering. The criteria given for the projection, 2.9% economic growth this year and about 2.5% in the duration of the plan, many may feel optimistic. However, it is natural for other human works based on looking forward to the fact that we can never be absolutely sure, as if to draw conclusions about what the past has been and guess what the future will be like. That's what we're doing in this program. 2.5% of economic growth has continued to be criticized as a possibility of optimism because the total economy will be that long. I don't think that in itself it would be a concern that economic growth would be longer, a long time. But I think the Icelandic economy is now much better prepared than often before to accept it if the growth would be smoother. It should be noted, in particular, that just 20 years ago, the foundations were under the Icelandic economy, i.e. The main pillars, basically two to three, are now closer to four to five. It's very important. We have such solid foundations as sea routes, tourism, software sector, electricity production, and other factors that all of which combined are much more likely to hold on and live up to the economy we have than the monoglomeration, if I allow myself to use the word, which characterized the Icelandic economy throughout the 20th century and in front of the 21st century. It's very important to look at them. This will increase the likelihood that predictions like these will actually be fulfilled. A greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee puts special emphasis on the importance of changing the income tax system, considering seriously that they will not only be cut flat on some income tax product supply, but will be taken into account as a person's discount is being dealt with and tried to use it so that it will be useful to the most needed. This is very important and is then taken to use the tax system as an equation system that at least We in left green always thought it should be. There is another special reason for rejoicing in the changes, though I do not plan all of this in detail, but the cost of staying at the countryside is something that a little bit has been discussed in this discussion. It refers to the transfer of stocks to the rural community, which today is somewhere in the range of 2.5How3 billion, which is collected for all the beds available. There's an enormous amount of farm for the rurals. Those of us who have gone off the cliffs for the past few years have likely noticed that in most places abroad, such fees are collected. In some areas, therefore, rural society is divided, corrosion, and even fencing, and divided into many elements. There's a really fun opportunity for the locals. Those rural areas, which have the largest environmental care for the arrival of tourists, will probably enjoy this price, and I trust the rural communities in consultation with the state in a very good way to set rules there. Again, I reiterate a few aspects of health care. What a joy it is that the newly built domestic hospital is fully funded in this financial program! It's a project that really can't stand waiting and has to be completed. The intention of also adding large amounts to a nursing facility will help reduce the management of the Land Hospital in the long term and make a difference in health care. I welcome this financial program and the spirit it imports into Icelandic society in all its basics. A big step is being taken forward, fulfilling the promises made by those of the government in the campaign. It will be exciting to follow along in the years that we will succeed in completing the work here that is funded and resolved to stress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u4	A respectable president. I'm not going to delay this discussion much more than I would like to implicate in a few matters, a few of them, mainly the affairs of the country; some questions about hospital services in the country. Of course, it is always considered how powerful hospital services are to be in scattered areas. It is a task that needs to be taken during the season when special but also general services are drawn out of the country and are moved to the capital area. The people of the land are ever going to seek that service into the capital area. This has met great opposition in the country, and members of the legal committee know it. If we're going to keep the country inhabited, so that it's desirable for people to choose a farm in the country, the opportunity to be offered for service in this sector, the hospital sector, so that, most of the country, is decent. Of course, more specialized measures may be involved in the urban area, but this is one of the main factors in which the inhabitants of the capital area are not expected to have to constantly be removed, even with minor problems, or with births, traveling long distances to obtain a ministry. We'll have to look at this if we're going to keep the country built. This trend has changed since collapse, medical services, hospital services, international health care. We've come to something else I was going to mention, but that's the county office. There we are talking about extensions of the government in a region similar to those mentioned in hospital services. This is a service that must be near the people. It is not predictable in the future as far as we can see that this service can be extended to all by telecommunications in a computerized future. All kinds of subjects and actions handled by the Commission can only be carried out face to face. I'm not going to mention these things, but, of course, there are many items of the county service to move closer to modern times and can work through a computer without meeting the person involved, but I don't see that this service is absolutely possible unless it is by the location of these documents that are throughout the country. They are now in nine places, providing a wide range of services to the public throughout the country, and there they look for inhabitants of all kinds of services. These implementations in the region can remember two times, since they were kind of a traffic center for everything, any name mentioned, not so many years ago. But this office has been able to live by the fact that the funds for them have been drawn together, and now they are fighting on the banks. It is vital that we strengthen these positions. I've mentioned, in answer to yesterday, a few things, and maybe I'd like to implode them again and add a little something else. Just as with hospital services, there are various experts who travel through the country to care for the inhabitants of scattered lands. It takes travel, stay, work time, it takes a lot of time. Is it not a good idea to seek to find in this additive effect and economy by making better use of the county office than is currently being done? Either to hide the sanctimonious reforms of many of these projects, those that can be done, and those with the cooperation of the relevant administrative office and the services of the bodies; I would like to present myself, as an example, a Fish Room, customs care, Food Agency, Environment Agency, Organization, Office for Work, Association, and so on. I haven't listed it well enough, but I guess there could be some more than that. When I lived in the Western Islands - if I let myself mention myself - a man sometimes noticed it, and I think it got worse, that in this town there may not be one or two but even more cars on the streets marked by these institutions. So they were traveling across the sea and across the country to do perhaps one small thing. This may cost a day or two to travel. Is it not possible to find an additive effect in this and to hide the county enterprise extensions, as they truly are, in more ways than those currently behind the county's hat and save travel and cost, travel and living costs and driving, which result. In many cases, it is not a very specialized job, I might believe. This office could provide a comprehensive service to the general public throughout the country as the expansion of government on a broader and broader basis. It's not just the Ministry of Justice that needs to do this, it's all the ministry. They need to unite in this and find ways to save, and along the way, to promote this office. Support needs to be strengthened under the county office. A little about the law enforcement department, very short of time, just what I couldn't talk about yesterday, especially with the police people. The police are short-handed. They've been gone for a very long time. The result? There is another priority. It's out of the question. They're being let go to the back of the row. If there are many calls, they go to more serious calls, they may escape burglary, come back to them later. Do we want that kind of community? I remember the time when the police would arrive if there was a reported burglary, immediately arrived. In many parts of the world, they only show up on Monday morning. Eight if you call on Friday. Is that acceptable for the public in Iceland? I say no. We have to promote law enforcement. That was one small example. The other consequences of police failure are that more uneducated policemen are working, especially in summer, when there are vacation permits. A more serious point is that there may be few police officers, even one, in a very large area to be assigned to. It is a long way to help, and you can imagine what insecurity it is for both the police and the people when there is much help or help. You may not always be able to call for helicopters. It takes time for her to come to the area. This is serious, and this is about the safety of police officers. Another thing I was going to mention is highland law. The police have been caring for her as best they can, but not as I think it would be necessary. There are a large number of tourists for the summer, and police officers need to be promoted up in the highlands even as they do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u5	President. We'll discuss the government budget. I will now in very short terms agree with the factors involved in the welfare committee. It should be noted that under the committee, there are the areas in which the largest budget of the Icelandic budget is a large number of languages that require much discussion and review. Therefore, a lack of time in the treatment of a contingency program may be a major concern to a health committee. Is that sad, since it is the first financial program of a new government established by taking the lead in building substantial structures in the infrastructure? In terms of hospital services, the goals mentioned in the section are good and clear and should be welcomed, but the same cannot be said about the planned actions. The type of actions that will be involved in working out the purpose of this section is not clear. In general, there is a great lack of transparency in the financial programmes for Hospital Hospitals and Hospital Services. There is both a lack of comprehensive information on financing measures as well as planning goals. The lack of information applies to most of the cases. It was noted in the case of a member of the welfare committee that it was very difficult to read from a financial program which amount was involved in the seminary. So large is the budgetary that there is no further disunition on the budgets. Thus it cannot be determined how much of the cost is meant to work on the construction of a new land hospital or for other construction projects, e.g. Buildings at the Hospital in Akureyri. Therefore, it is not possible to tell how much extra money is meant to support hospital management. It would normally be possible to find a separating between the cost of operating and the cost of stocks. It would also be desirable that the cost of operating could be further identified. At that time, financial programmes will not handle the huge design problems available in hospital service. The current situation is that there is too much pressure on hospital staff and it was shown to the host welfare committee that in this country, doctors and nurses are under twice the pressure to work as compared to similar health care facilities in Sweden. Then there's a big fight ahead of us. Finally, in the matter of hospital services, it should be noted that under the topic range there are some classes that are mostly or completely different from those of women. Public financial laws require gender laws and equality in a financial programme. So there would have been improvement in having a sensory discussion on the topic field of hospital service. I also have to go to the clinic briefly. The amount of money to be donated to support health care services is not clear. Clearly, money is needed to build up the ministry. Money lacks the ability to care for household care, so that the role of health care can be enhanced as the first stop. In order to strengthen her ability to receive her medical supplies, it is essential that donations be made up in the years to come. One of the objectives of health care is to increase the availability of patients in a broad range of mental - health services. That's the goal to celebrate. Therefore, rather than being added to the good work that has been done by free members of the community, the goal should be to increase the number of mental health facilities within the medical facility. It is difficult to see how these measures increase diversity when it comes to putting down needed resources, if you pay attention to those who are truly meant to be served. In the light of growing mental health problems in Iceland, resources that have proved to be successful are new until it becomes clear that they are no longer needed. A new mental - health team could possibly replace the resources currently laid down. It was my opinion of a section of the Committee to wait until experience with new ones shows that other options are sure to be resolved. I'd like to take a brief look at the nurses and residents who are the only group that's had to take action in recent years. On page 18. 331 reports that 486 nurses are in the construction or implementation program until 2022, of which 309 are new nurses. It is very important to work on space as soon as there is a great need to ensure that all the space needed. During the past few years, the number of micropigs has increased in this country. One of the measures defined in the program is to identify the cause of the growth of microplasia and find ways to cope with it. It is very important that this analysis be carried out and brought to light on the reasons for the growing numbers of microorganisms in the community. Today's medical science guarantees better physical health than ever before, but the number of microorganisms increases considerably. Clearly, some of this increase is due to mental disorders. It is very important that the causes of the growth of disability become determined that every aspect of stress and drought will be thoroughly investigated as a result of the proliferation of disability. There are quite a variety of family issues, with a considerable number of lawsuits involved. Among them is maternity. The only purpose of the seminar is to reduce the interference of parents'income in maternity vacations. It is defined as a measure of the goal of raising the percentage of fathers compared to mothers as being fully self-employed in maternity, as well as the proportion of parents who receive maximum dues in maternity. They are both important and welcome to them. However, there are other factors that might be seen in the form of birthworm, which can be mentioned in the first place as prolongation of maternity. This has not been the case with children of single parents. The fact that single - parent families have more right to spend time at home with their parents is against ideas of equality and justice. Sadly, the first financial program on the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is disappointing. Lately, a lot of talk has been made about our experiencing previously unknown prosperity. Late last year, the institution of the government was declared to represent the construction of wood, a project that had long been laid aside. This may surprise us, since the largest body of members in the present government has been involved in all governments established since 2013. You might thus wonder, " What is the basis for this adjustment? ' The financial agenda that is under discussion helps us to see that, in fact, there are very little changes. There may be several increases in spending from the last financial programme to be celebrated, but it does not appear clearly in the plan of the much infrastructure promised by the government at its establishment. In previously unknown economic growth, there are opportunities that are not new in financial planning, but we should use them. We have the opportunity to place money on real defenses. We can take steps, such as shortening the workweek, working to increase people's happiness and raising those who need help from a poverty trap, removing impairment and taking effective measures to eliminate poverty in Iceland. It is the wisest and best predestination, and it is the best way to increase the happiness and prosperity of the Icelanders. It is not looked to in a financial program. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u6	Mr. President. It is an assignment to be here on the last list of talks and to find something new and interesting in a financial discussion. I'll do my best. I'm going to start by paraphrasing the highest. The prime minister of jakobsdóttir, who pointed out that the current economic growth season was the longest in the republic's history, and it was not safe to assume that it would be a controlled financial program. I guess it was right next to the highest level. One year ago, the prime minister is even more right today. In spite of this, the financial program that we now discuss is based on the fact that economic growth continues at least 2020 to 2020. This simply means that if and when a setback occurs, the foundation of the plan is broken. There are many references, e.g. With financial advisers, which points out that the flexibility that has been proclaimed in a previous financial program has now been largely lost, it may be a failure if action is not taken that will increase the income of a government fund, but such plans have not yet been established on the part of the government. It is only natural, then, to ask: When the setback comes, what will be left over? Where will the government cut down? As a government plan is established now, there is no room for another. The question is: Will the internal investments be cut down, where the cumulative need for maintenance is estimated to be even higher than donated according to the plan? Will the health system, the education system, the social security system? That's how you might ask for a long time. These questions are not likely to be answered right now. All I want to do is set the goals of a legal law on public finances that are promoting good economic management and a strong and responsible government of public finance, including the rest of the world. with pooled policy and careful planning. There is one thing we can be absolutely sure of, that our desire for increased expenses and increased services will grow faster than the income of the state's funds will do unless we get back into a golden pot, as our tourism proved to be to us a few years ago, but it is natural not safe to rely on it and even in the long run, nothing particularly desirable. It must simply, in addition to finding new income companies, be better in the long term to aim for a better use of funds in the same or better service and even leave, if that is, money in the pockets of taxpayers, in public and commercial pockets. If we just look at our major spending force, for example. Our medical services then know that the technological development we see up to that point certainly increases the quality of the ministry, increases the well - being, health, and life of those who use it, but it simply costs more, at least looking at direct medical expenses. The benefits come somewhere else, but this costs. This is an expansion. We also see the unseen technological changes that will require response from our educational system. It will cost, the response will cost. What a privilege it will be to continue in the same way to educate people in order to meet the needs of the past! We have to start responding there, but it's gonna cost us. We put extra emphasis on welfare, but that's a good thing. The fact is, the only practical way to promote the Icelandic welfare community is to make more use of the money. It is just that we can have realistic expectations that efforts to meet the demand for increased service in one field will not be the only means of bringing in our sails in another area. Simply put, we need to use the money better in order to meet the demands of increased service in ways other than narrowing down somewhere. This is basically what I miss from the government budget until the next year, because it's a policy plan for public finance and such policy measures cannot be centered on just an increase in expenses. It must be about the other side and then on the basis of increased and better service, not just with increasing expenses, but in better and more efficient capital use. That's what I call after and would have wanted to see more emphasis. I expect to see this because I realize that we're still in the initial meters of these devices. I call out that this emphasis will get richer in the next round, and we will be accustomed to thinking about these things, not just counting additional expenses or measuring the welfare of our expenses, but how we handle this money. Because the money in your pockets is not inexhaustible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u7	Mr. President. It is gradually drawing up a clearer picture of the purpose of this government. In fact, during the past week, it appeared crystal clear when a bill was proposed for a massive reduction in fishing costs, where large productions that are well - equipped, were required to be given the brother's share. Happily, they were able to resist the government's opposition to their plans through a concerted effort. In fact, even the development was said to have reached its limit, which is so disrespectful to all the people who are truly in trouble. To be honest, I can't remember that the government that even claimed to be concerned with the interests of these people before elections used the endurance of the last few weeks to discuss the status of the elderly, the poor, the students, or the wealthy children. Instead, the discussion of these groups has been published with declarations about how the situation is common among people in the country. However, while the average standard of life has improved, we are not living and moving in indexes or averages. Each person who is unable to support himself is of vital importance. A large number of ordinary employees, the elderly, and the desperate are not able to make ends meet, and they may even have to give up on their own things, such as medical care. Young people's possessions are also bad, and many families are driven into an expensive and disloyal tenant. In addition, there has been an abundance of discrimination in this country, though it is no doubt greater in other parts of the world. But the richest 1% of the population increased its pure estate by 53 billion dollars. in 2016. This group continues to collect the largest part of all new wealth. So, after the promises of the last election, very many were excited for the important document entitled a government agreement, for it shows the priorities of the new government in black and white. Then there's the financial plan, and there it goes. I must admit that I allowed myself to hope that the influence of the left green would be sufficient to cope better with the emergency problems of various infrastructures, take the prevention of low-to-meditated workers, and soften the uncontrolled right-hand policy of the Independence Party when it comes to tax issues. But now that the plan is set, the wonderful promises of this same scheme seem to be to make better use of the words. All management members are now completely responsible for this government document, since they did not make the only change in the first few events that slodged into the council. There will continue to be child damages that far below the minimum wage. The decrease will contribute to greater poverty among working people. Also, housing and housing support are not to be solved. Schools are high, and high school has reached resistance levels. You can't really see the high school that was called on in education. Older people and disability have been waiting for men to do better, and they still have groups to wait. People in distress around the world are also being delayed, but we defend a considerably lower proportion of land production in developing lands than are neighboring countries, despite being the 11th richest country in the world. Our health system is about to collapse. Health - care contributions are certainly up - to - date, but they will not be built in just one night, and according to local information, they still lack a lot, or 80 billion in the next four to five years. Mr. President. Budget plans include 203/430 billion, and tax returns are being announced. The number of taxes will be best used to earn the most, giving us the highest earners three times more than the ones in the lowest wage. Mr. President. There is no forwardness in this program. It reveals an old - fashioned right course, but now we need social management. [[The president calls.]] It is essential that this government be removed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u8	Mr. President. A budget of 2019/2023 shows economic strength, that spending can be increased in ways that are being done, but still remain unchanged as part of GDP. In other words, the State does not take a larger section of the national cake. It also shows the importance of the government's putting extra money in the health system, to the poor, and to the elderly. In addition, we make significant adjustments in roads and other transportations in the country. It also shows the stability and survival of a government fund, and all of this is done without sacrificing economic stability or the loss of a government fund, which is of least importance to youths for the future. Rather than storing debts, we are laying a firm foundation for the future of the State's finances. We're also cutting down the curses in the country and owning a business. We strengthen our homes and our professional lives. In terms of a government budget and we look into the statistics, what is behind what we're about to add to our operating budget, we will tell you, based on 2017, and out of 2023, we'll raise the State's expenses by 19%. This is an enormous expansion of expenses, and continued stability is essential for its success. Health costs are higher than those of the country, especially at the beginning of the programme. With regard to 2017, economic spending will be a total of 85 billion dollars. above the budget of 2017 in 223 C.E. It is 78% on the increase in the total rate of all causes and therefore clearly demonstrates the priorities of the government in the interests of welfare. In terms of increase of contributions to the following topics most: In the case of the elderly, contributions are raised by 17.7 billion, with the greatest increase in budget 2018 when the effects of a global review of social security were observed. The increase in elderly people beyond those of other age groups is also very serious in this context. Costs of disability and the speech of disabled persons are next to their weight, about 17 billion dollars, and a large proportion of the increase is due this year, including due to the high incidence of scarring in the group. Medical services outside the hospital are rising by 14.8 billion. which is mainly explained by the supply of health care and large - scale donations for physical therapy. Hospital service contributions are increasing by 13.1 billion where there is expected to be an increase in hospital management beyond the prices. In addition, there are contributions to the construction of a new national hospital that is outlined in a section on government investments, which are quite detailed in the budget, and I may be coming in better in case of time. The highest rate of drug costs in the schedule is 66%, which occurs to most extent as early as the first year, i.e. 2018, and explained that the initial work programme for real cost was 2017 and 2018 did not work out. Relatively, contributions to the environment are next most important, by 47%. In particular, the rise points to the latter part of the period in line with the focus of the Government Treaty. Health services rising by 34% and is the third largest increase in both the budget and the proportion of donations given in 2017. The majority of the legal committees present a table on investment levels, which is a new one, in which the plan will specifically take out the investment rate for the upcoming budget and expect investments to up to 338 billion in the period. There, the amount of money is greatly increased in transport and transportation development. The road they weigh about 37% of that amount, i.e. Over 124 billion. It's not enough, is it? There's plenty to take. This, however, is the beginning of something and an increase from what has been in recent years. Of course, most of the funding has recently taken place in welfare, health, and education matters, but we are starting to have an effort to build up the transport industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u9	Mr. President. I just want to come in here, in my second speech, classes of languages that didn't have time to talk about in the first talk. Then I'd like to go to Social Security first. It is positive that the internalisation of job performance assessments and the streamlining social security reform system should be undertaken. The financial programme estimates that the increase in social security will be between 3.1% and 4.3% for the next five years. There's a pretty small amount in here, as assessed by Section 3. The gap between microenergy pensioners and other community groups will continue to decline. I'm sorry. Low percentages of these low improvements yield low level increases. With the financial program, people's living standards, such as disability, often in poverty, are not sufficiently improved by my share, and are sadly rewarded. An offer of increase from 3.1% to 4.3% in five consecutive years would mean that in 223 social security, non-deserved pensions would be about 278. K. to 295 you. K. in a month, and these are tax figures. Before the last election, the left promised the greens a significant increase in the lowest salary. VG said that the matter would be a priority in a collective contract for the next year and that the improvement in pension and disability will be accompanied by such increases. The increases I've mentioned here, 3.1% to 4.3%, are not significant increases, everyone sees. The budget cannot be rereaded at all but at its height. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and her government, did not intend to correct the ideal disability pensioner and ensure that the future man - made contributions, as promised. Governments should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice. - Those are familiar words as the highest. Last September, the prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter died. It scolded the then ruling government for assuming that the poor and elderly lay ahead and had an ignominious vote. For the next five years, Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, is now in the position of prime minister and has decided that the poor and elderly will continue to wait for righteousness. In a financial program, it is very important that more disability - related persons can support themselves, either in part or in part, by participating in a workforce. Thus, it is incomprehensible why not immediately recompute a cent in favor of a coin in which such a provision would encourage employment, as well as an urgent public health issue. The budget cannot be read to eliminate a cent in the next few years. Mr. President. Finally, under official financial law, financial plans are to demonstrate goals, standards, and measures in a clear way. However, this does not work properly on my third share. There is much more to it than the fact that financial programs are not set aside in an sufficiently divided way. It's happened, I think, to everyone in my budget. So it is not transparent, though it is one of the baseline values it should be processed from and though it should be expressed in that spirit. It is difficult to get information that is behind the figures estimated for each case and for each subject. Opacity exists between investments and other investments. However, there are positive points in the schedule, such as subsidies in debt. With subsidies, the interest payments in the state's funds are reduced. Similarly, transportation campaigns and increased health care are positive. However, the nation's housing emergency is not addressed as well as the need for improvement in child care and housing. A cent has to be taken out of the way that I mentioned before. Man in health care is a big issue. There are no solutions to the problem within the financial program. [[The president calls.]] The schedule provides evidence in terms of a reduction in the third part that governments do not know where the health policy is. The priorities of financial programmes are based on unrealistic optimism, in view of 3 less part of economic developments up to the next five years. [[The president calls.]] The plan is to build expectations for budgeting, which may then be difficult to live up to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u10	President wants to ask why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u11	A respectable president. We are in the final session of a discussion on the financial program of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for the next five years. For many reasons, discussions during the council have been useful both because they give us lessons we need to learn from the work process and also because the most crystalline criticism of the government opposition, which is either too much or too little. The figures have been discussed about inequities and what we could do to reduce inequities that are too high in Icelandic society. According to a report by Credit Suisse, published by the Giin Index on property balance, it is the least in Iceland of the North countries. However, data on property balance must be considered poor, including Because there is no need for pension and stock. But it tells itself that if an inequities get too high, it will lead to social instability and it is essentially unfair. None of us choose the parents or circumstances in which we are born. It is therefore difficult to reason that some have an advantage from the beginning, while others run toward one another throughout their lives. Those of us who are subject to individual responsibilities, and many of those who are with me in the government, should agree with me on this, as we socialists agree that in the midst of great inequities, there is a systematic injustice that needs to be handled. So far, we have not come to an agreement on ways to settle these two views. It moves to bridge the gap, for too much roughness is bad for all. This government budget, which we are about to complete, has an enormous increase in spending and is also aimed at continuing to pay off the debt of state funds. The plan has been criticized for being too optimistic, but the latest data we have and economic forecasts support it. I don't think it's an amazing method of saying: "The crown has always fallen when it's so strong, and so it will fall. The time's at hand. There is a fundamental difference between the economy status and the last gang drop. The debt status of homes, state funds, and nations is very different from that of previous gangs. The fall of the crown is not a physical law but a description of what happened under the circumstances of the past. There are other circumstances now. There are many positive points to be listed in this budget. Granted, there are also many big uncertainties. I mention the elephant in the room, the travel service and the crews of the crown, pay development, and the price of housing development. Yet, there is every reason to be happy that years of success and that we can finally begin to rebuild the interiors of our country. With intense injection into the economy, the economy becomes resistance when it adapts to lower economic growth. In the time of interest, $338 billion should be invested. ... inthegoatsoftheland. It's already started. The first stage of the New Land Hospital on Ring Lane has arrived at an invitation. It is planned to increase the annual cost of health care by about 40 billion in addition to the 20 billion that had the first government's budget. We're going to rebuild the Icelandic medical system, which has been the greatest campaign case in the last two elections. Then it's the environment, but we plan on taking pride in climate and environment. Never in history have such environmental issues been added. It is the policy of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter to meet commitments in climates as well as the sustainable use of the land. Iceland has made a commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions substantially until 2030 and aims for Iceland to become a non-carbon object in 2040. To accomplish this, you need to take a big step toward transport energy exchange and, of course, other activities. We also need to talk about large - scale injections in education and so many other matters discussed here, on transportation, and so forth. It's all about it. A respectable president. I don't have to extend my case much longer. I'd like to thank my partners again on the budget for their cooperation and, of course, the people who have taken up a financial program. We left greens it is a large box around the many good things that the government of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir intends to do. It's not a solution to all of society's problems, but it's a pretty good start.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u12	A respectable president. Here we complete a discussion on the financial program of 2019,2023, which is, under government law on public finances, a formal government policy for the next five years. In the strategy, the government contributes a budget for budgets and measurable goals for its policies. When a law on public finance was passed, the expectation was made that the discussion of budgeting would be given over the spring to ease stress during the autumn Summit so that financial work would have a comprehensive workout over the year. Sadly, events over the past few years have had a slight impact on financial discussions in recent years. An election in the fall and government development at the end of 2016 limited time to agree to a New Year's Day budget. The impact on both financial and financial policies was expected to become someone with much less time for the last two governments, present and past, in order to set their course according to the conditions of government laws. Now, the discussion with this financial program is estimated to be extremely low. The discussion time for the last financial program, which also received relatively little preparation, was less than 61 hours. For this discussion, I seem to be heading 33 to 34 hours. I understand that the government is not interested in discussing his budget plan at the Senate Hall, despite large reports of an enormous expansion. I would have thought that the government would want to talk as much as possible about what great work she was going to achieve at all these expenses. It speaks of 117 billion dollars. fictitious growth in business terms. However, data received by a financial committee on so - called basics, divided commitments from expenses under government policy, show only about 78 billion dollars. increase from budget 2017 to the end of financial planning and only 54 billion budget gains during financial planning. It still looks like a big number, but this is a cumulative number for five years. This means that the cost of spending is increased permanently by just over 10 billion at the beginning of financial planning. At the same time, for example, the cost of growth is to decrease by 20 billion between 2017 and 2018. I understand that the government wants to avoid talking about a financial program in order not to have to explain how 10 billion dollars cost. An increase may be considered largely in the various grammatical groups. I'll repeat this to make sure it doesn't get misunderstood. If the basic government spending, when a committed project is taken away, the debt of Pension and other factors that cannot be avoided, no matter what the government may have, remains 54 billion that the government's policy costs during the period of financial planning. Of course, it's uncomfortable for the government to have a discussion when it comes to this. With these 54 billion, the government must achieve its objectives according to a government contract, beyond what was previously determined. There is also a financial policy. But I also understand why the government has no interest in a long discussion of government policy as reflected in a financial program. Because there is no need for cost analysis and clear and measurable goals. It is very convenient not to say which goals to reach, but only 54 billion dollars. It's worth the money and hope for the best. You see, if you don't tell the results you'll never fail, you'll never fail. On the other hand, government laws on public financial matters require that the government tell us the results they will achieve. The General shall require that they tell the results they will achieve, the senators are required, the people are required to demand it, otherwise we control the rightness, care and propaganda of 117 billion when the right is 54 billion, otherwise we'll just be assigned from the general reserves to pay for the poor estimates, otherwise we'll have to follow our tail constantly, react to the mess --diving and voluntary. We're not supposed to let us get away with this. It's not easy to do better. Still, it is to be demanded of us. Do not get drunk with efficiency and excuses, do not fall into exaggerations or window decorations, and do not fall into twists and contradictions. I'm here talking to all of us, including me. We share responsibility for the work given under the constitution by the General Assembly. We follow our convictions in action, not just in word. A respectable president. Let's not just think about doing better next time, let's do better right away. Let's take this financial plan back to the government, demand better action now, not just next time, we all know that the person who always passes over is not listened to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u13	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for the discussion here on the 2019 20203 that I think was pretty nice. Such strategy is a broad range of economics, all government finances; rural and public enterprises including and all the resources of the state. Many of the points presented during the discussion are found in the tips of a financial Council that works on the basis of Article 13. the law on public financial matters, and I feel that the importance of the authority is over and over again on the topic of a financial agenda. The direction and comments of the Governing Body raise the discussion professionally and put it in place, we can say, a certain thread. In my historical background, I thanked the reviews of other constant committees who turn to their topic areas and so on. Legal committees for the cooperation and a great work programme on the subject and preparatory and diagnostic work. The situation is most significant in the common indications that appear in the opinion of more parts and of all minor parts and that are to be attributed to the second vice president of the Economic and Business Committee, please. paritaprevir Ágúst, Ólafur of Ágústsson, the idea and introductory of all else. The members of this joint tip. And so went the other way. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear worked very hard on basic conditions that were very useful in diagnostic work. It can be said that the work of the Commission and the joint tips are much better equipped to be effective and to get a more full picture of the project and its impact on economic and economic economy. But the things I feel that have stood up for the discussion are especially two. On the one hand, there is a debate about the uncertainty of economic forecasts; we're here considering the economic forecasts we have to build on such a plan. This is the situation today, which is being worked out, and the committee considered a good review of the improvements that are being done on that subject. And the other thing is that there's a lot of budget in the plan, it's got to be said. We need to be careful that the government's budget is sustainable into the future. At the same time, however, there is a paradox, called for more expenses. That may be the main outcome here, what we're getting for the money. That will be our future assignment. In common indications, I'd like to say that there has been a agreement with Iceland's Haust on cooperation on information collections of projections and scenarios, in the same way, for visual and sensitivity analyses. There are quite a number of points in the joint tips of the Commission that can be cited, in effect, to answer the discussion well and to be used, I meant, in the entire discussion on the subject. However, it shows that investment coverage needs to be more detailed and that there is an even greater need for more emphasis on covering and identifying and responding to financial tips and adding to the work-up of various scenarios and scenarios. The committee agreed on all the points needed, and it agrees with a financial recommendation that it is important to identify the potential impact of integration in tourism; it can be said that the committee, in its common indications, was ready for this discussion and might add a tone to it. The plan isn't engraved on stone. It presents a clear priority for the government as expressed in a government covenant and is in accordance with a agreed policy. [[The president calls.]] That's why we suggest that she be accepted here on the same page.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u14	Mr. President. What stands in focus on this financial strategy is the priorities of the government. The more wealthy and more fortunate are, but those who have been forgotten will still be forgotten. It is paradox that in the topic field, disability and the affairs of disabled people say that people with limited skills should be able to live independent lives; yet, for these people, who all know to be shameful, they should not be raised to a degree of pension, except in a range of 3.13/4.4.3% for the next five years. It is only natural for the Qualification Society to ask how people with impaired skills should be able to live an independent, decent life when such efforts are offered. With regard to the position of these battle - latrine groups, the government actually returns wealth. It is a vague promise rather than a guarantee to those who have a low standard of living. The further policy has to stop that people are being prevented by self - preservation efforts to improve their own interests if they have the will and ability to do so with increased work. I'd like to let myself know that we've been involved in these activities by transporting a bill here to cancel the so-called vacation market because of the income of the elderly. Thus, we may suffer, and those concerned that the matter is halted by a committee, torn out of a Senate committee, and referred to the government in the power of the majority decision here at the General Assembly. It is not enough to have beautiful words with regard to social groups such as this one. The work, Mr. President, the signs. The agricultural system, the growth reforms, the child damages, should remain in decomposition. This is expected to be a unchanged system of growth reforms and reference levels over the next few years. When it comes to child repair, they should continue to be impaired because of earning more than 240,000 dollars. which, as everyone knows, are far below the minimum of 300,000 dollars. If we shift to nursing and nursing homes, health services, demand for a service they are intended to perform and a government mold at any given time, they will be far below the standards for such services, as the surgeon has repeatedly suggested. It is a great disappointment, Mr. President, that there is no firm way of dealing with economic problems, especially in the face of the serious problem of alcohol and addiction. The government's failure to recognize the importance of this activity is natural that it will interfere in the coming days. That will be, Mr. President, don't fail to correct the economic situation of the Year, as very few alcoholic and drug-infested homes in the country are going to be taken care of. The big insider turns out to be empty, as if in my previous talk. Compatibility: The presidents of financial programmes are based on an incompetent optimism about economic progress and are going against the baseline level of caution in this subject. I would like to mention at the end and present a little correction to the opinion of the 4th smaller things that could not be done after the recommendation, which is on page. 11, that's 4 mg. ... andI ask that it be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u15	A respectable president. I've previously said it in a discussion of this important matter that the financial and financial agenda of each government is its main test, not just on political priorities, not only on which budget to spend on individual projects, but on the importance of the government budget in terms of financial management. This is the government's economic policy at any given time and is of utmost importance. This is a test of the government's share at any given time. That's a test of the government, rock and roll. It is sad to see that here we are repeating mistakes, not the last period of publication for us that ended up panicking, but, in fact, the mistake is repeated in our entire empire history. We see that the government's budget, the political bitch, is always failing its responsibilities when it comes to the role of government interests. A late bank is always left on its own with the task of promoting the prices of prowess and prowess. In this 100-year story, we've blown off a dozen different methods of money management, on another dozen different attempts to contribute here to prices and gang level. Is it only expected that in a labour market, in the public, the state will not believe that such stability can be achieved here? Once again, politics fails in this context. Here is the main objective of this national budget with all the good work it is to do. I'm not trying to criticize the priorities of the money being given here, but it seems that the aim is primarily to make some amount of money in the highlight of the economy. It is very dangerous and directly irresponsible at this point when we see a variety of economic climates. We know that the result is, and has clearly been warned by the Federal Bank, that there will be interest levels above those of others. The career needs to wait longer for necessary oxygen, and the gangs of the crown become stronger than that, digging off export work, the same export work as the government has spoken of the importance of strengthening. Second, the economic basis for this financial strategy is very weak. They are based on optimistic predictions of the longest historical economy of all time. As we look at the signs of cooling that already appear in the economy, it is quite clear that there is good reason to be careful about this, that there is more space, more change, less plan for growth, because it is quite clear when we watch long-term sustainable state funds, that the projects that are being promised to support the budget will not be fully funded on the board of state funds. This poisonous cocktail, the compromise of these administration parties, to believe that a large increase in government spending at the same time that taxes are dropped, is simply unrealistic and readily aware that we will face a problem similar to that of so many times before, that we will either have to raise taxes in the down cycle and/or pull together in public expenditures. That's why we've been through before. Clearly, we are going to repeat what is stated in this program. Third, it can be criticized that the aims of the State budget are very vague. This is something that the Senate needs to do better. The budget of the last government could also be criticized. It is unclear how we are going to measure the results, since the results will be measured not only in the funding given to the projects but also in what comes out of it, what we get for the resources we give to the projects, whether we look at the educational system or the health system. In the winter discussion, it has been made clear that we know very little about what the money we put in the health system at any given time really returns, what its efficiency is, what its cost is, where we might do better. We have to make things right. I think there's going to be a substantial decrease in the target, that's, I think, about 370 in this schedule, I think there should be 30 to 40 primary targets and a clear test scale. There are the benefits of policy development, such as financial programmes, that should be in financial matters at any given time. Finally, we look at the fact that this important policy is too short for the council to discuss. This actually has very little resources to cope with it in a number of wise ways. In reality, we do not know what goes on with the amount of money spent, what is really needed to achieve the goals set out. This means that a budget is very difficult to establish with some adjustment either to reevaluate goals or expenses for individual causes. [[The president calls.]] If we are to do so, we need to make things right together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u16	A respectable president. Toward the end of this second discussion of the proposal to come up with a conclusion on the budget of the year 2019-22023 I want to say that I still think that this is the case that we are learning a new legal program and that we have learned a significant if it were to be said to each other, to the council and to the board, or to the Board of Directors. The basis for the work of the legislature board not only had this proposal for Congress, but also the opinion of a financial body that is somewhat thorough and intends to allow me to say that at first, of course, it was very useful for all discussions, but I can't let it go without saying that the opinion of a financial body has become a bit different than I had seen when we approved the official financial law, i.e. has become much more rich, deeper. A man may have assumed to see a short report, I don't say, a man may not have clear ideas about it, perhaps in the range of perhaps 101⁄220 pages, but we've got a lot more work from a financial body than I had anticipated. It's just been positive, it's just useful. There are many tips from the financial council that I notice that the committee has been working with and, of course, we have also been dealing with the committee on those issues. I allow me to refer to a relatively recent summary of material in the opinion of a financial body on a number of issues we have shared with the Committee. I think it's important that we keep them alive. These are comments that the Ministry of finance will certainly consider on the job follow-up, i.e. preparing for the next Senate resolution, and this is explained in the document I am here to refer to. We can randomize the general format of the program. The advice points out that it is more detailed than before, and the work done better. However, a careful correlation is needed between the text and the details in pictures and tablets. We in the Ministry are taking that indication, so we promise to continue improving the production of the coming strategy and in harmony with that. Just on this note, I think maybe we should take another aspect of continued work. It's, for example. ... there'sa window on the strategy. At weeks, during the council resolution proposal, it was very difficult to have a plan ahead of time. This is what we said when we presented financialism, but we have also mentioned this in terms of the financial agenda, to have plans in the fifth year in the future, is certainly not a very accurate science. There are many factors that need to blend together, and they are all a bit floated to generate a number of 0.1 of national product or what it may be. I think it's one of the things we have to do, i.e. Are we supposed to have more flexibility in the strategy, especially in the last part of the strategy? And then we need to lead to the conclusion of the question as to whether such flexibility is expected in the law or not. We haven't wanted to take any chances in this material, and we've interpreted the law narrowly, but maybe we've interpreted it too narrow and may have started working on it. There is also the question of staging and other factors. I don't have time to go over all those things. They've been compiled into documents, but we'll follow them along. But I'm going to tell you something else. That's what I'm going to do because the committee's taking care of things without changing the details. The committee, however, has many tips. The lack of change in share targets, debt targets, or other, does not mean that the work of the Committee does not have an impact because all indications presented in the majority opinion will be included at work thereafter. [[The president calls.]] And it will appear in budgets by incident, and then in the next financial plan that the council called for emphasis on specific areas to which I refer. [[The president calls.]] This is how the committee is without changing very significantly or changing the overall objective of the plan to influence the future. [[The president calls.]] I want to thank you for your objective discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u17	A respectable president. No divided budget, poorly defined goals, same as no criteria, no questions answered, very limited discussion - again. We're giving back a discount on democratic discussions and government coverage. Is it not the role of the Parliament to provide government care? To be effective in managing rulers and how they exercise authority? This financial strategy does not measure up to any quality requirements, even to those that we put ourselves on the law on public finances. Pirantics thus do not believe that it is available to accept this program, suggest that it be referred back to the government and sit by in other excellent ideas of change proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u18	Mr. President. Unlike the board of administrations, which completely sink into the powder for their scheme and do not make any changes to 5 of yours. Billions. His financial plan puts out ten adjustment proposals here on the United States. These suggestions ensure the necessary funds for the hospital, school, child - making, interest reform, disability, and the elderly to name something. The Union's declarations are fully funded by changing the plans for the government's taxes, but the proposals of the administration are mainly useful to rich men and banks. Earlier this week, this government was ready to deliver the Companies and tax chains by 3 billion with reduced fishing expenditures. Since the government had to be backed up with that issue, it would be possible for members of the government to agree with some of our proposals that may result in greater well - being. If you do not have to ask yourself the question, Why do you all have the support of your efforts, not the elderly, the cripples, or the children?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u19	Mr. President. I am very pleased with the financial programs that are faced with it, since it keeps what was promised for elections and is being inspired for the application. There is a sound application in the language groups that concern the nation most, and I would naturally mention health, but also the educational issues that have remained uncivilized in the garden, transport, where there is a real need for supplementation, and a cutback for donors of biofuels. I must also mention environmental and natural protection issues that are being added to this financial program far from what we've seen in the past. The kind of work we've been working on inculcating laws on public finances has been a learning process. It is interesting to read the review of the financial Council and to continue to learn from this work song from year to year. It shows that we have made progress, and we are going to be asked to look for an extended period of financial gain. Above all, it is important that we here be in a real application as required by society over the past few years. I'm proud to be allowed to vote with this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u20	V.E.G. President. This plan complies with an approved national financial policy. Here is the priority of much social development. Here we are adding heavily to our expenses and health and welfare investments, education and transportation, and other areas of society. Of course, there are many things that can be added to our work, to our analysis, and to our presentation. In view of the greater portions, there are indications, as well as the joint tips of the budget committee, and there is room to consider this with the next budget and a reevaluation of the programme in a year. The plan is the future implementation of government funds, the application programme, and the basis for which the plan complies with the requirements of public finances. Therefore, more part of the legal committee contributes to its approval as unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u21	A respectable president. In the 100-year history of the Supreme Authority, we have blown off well on another dozen different means of money management to ensure stability and low interest levels. Despite loud criticism, despite the very fact that the purpose of the government's laws on public finance is just to promote the interests of government in this country, this government is going to fail on that test. Here, again, we are on the road to large expenses at the height of the expansion. The bill will be sent to the public in the country in the form of a scale higher than tens of millions, even hundreds of billions, cost. Reverence will vote against this financial program. It does not meet the core standards of public finances regarding sustainability, caution, stability, or stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u22	Mr. President. The priorities of financial programmes are based on an unrealistic optimism of economic developments until the next five years. The plan is to build expectations for budgeting, which may then be difficult to live up to. There is uncertainty about economic development for just one year and what the five-year plan will do. Therefore, it is necessary for governments to tell how they plan for priorities, both if economic developments become more economically or worse. It's not for the plan, so it's a big problem. The media cannot support the proposal, so we do not vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u23	A respectable president. The current financial agenda is disappointing, we have not concealed it. Of course, we can always do better than in the case we look up at now, to the next five years, 5 of you. Billions, it is almost certain and absolutely undisputed that the society group sitting on the cutest object and living in poverty will continue to do so for the next five years. That's for damn sure. While a government government government can reduce bank taxation by 7.3 billion, 14 billion may reduce 1% of lower tax steps, which may bring some hundred calls to the worst but more to the others, it is clear where priorities lie. It is certainly not for the people who most need the help of this government. Therefore, I will at no time support this plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u24	Mr. President. I believe that there are indications of the benefits of this financial program that it is criticized from many different sources. Some advocates of what? A government official comes here to criticize the impassioned fact that it contains too much promise of spending while others say that an overdose is under way. I think the government budget reflects a particular balance in that subject, a balance between responsible government policy, a responsible policy in which the matter is not being spent, and a particular parish, like the highest. The prime minister mentioned above, where there is a desire to improve in many areas of public service, infrastructure, and construction. I support this program, and to members of the Independence Party, it makes sense that it is responsible, effective, and reasonable according to the circumstances in which we live. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u25	A respectable president. This financial strategy does not measure up to the standards made by the General on official financial matters. Lack of logical support and information on government policy is ongoing in this financial program. Not only in the plan itself, but also in the presence of a minister before members of the council. We'll get information like: We're gonna buy a ship, but we're not getting any money for it. What are you supposed to do when they say that? The suggestion is simple: Let's bring this plan back to the government, it can bring new ones in the summer, let's take it down on July 18th, the case is dead.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u26	Mr. President. The need for international cooperation has rarely been greater. Tens of millions are on the run from war, violence, poverty, and increasing climate pressure. This group will grow much in the future. Iceland is the 11th richest nation in the world. Still, we are far beyond the goal of developing interfaith in the United Nations. By accepting this suggestion, we can take greater steps in accepting responsibility and making the world a better place.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u27	Mr. President. When the budget was introduced, the government groups made a great deal of the increase to transport, and it was spoken of a largeness in this regard. In further analysis, the amount of money to travel during the period is in line only with the five - year average transport spending and may even be under the ten - year average. It then becomes clear that the financial resources brought to the seminar are not close to meeting the need and in no way related to the grandness of the government proclaimed in the government covenant. Mr. President. The party contributes a billion - year increase. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u28	A respectable president. Icelanders have been very zealous and diligent in building a magnificent house for their schools, a magnificent schoolhouse, but we have been pretty busy with their business. After years of education, the government made beautiful promises for a large education industry, but these are not taking place in this financial program. The union intends to correct it by making this adjustment. Mr President, I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u29	Mr. President. There is a shortage of acute recognition of hospital emphasis. The development of demand is absolutely unsurpassed. Neither the Hospital, the Akureyri Hospital, nor any other medical facility are allowed to deal with situations or projects, and the growing demand. What you can see is a continuing recession in medical institutions, not in structure, but in retreat. There is no sign of improvement in the national health care program. Government officials estimate that at least 1,500 million people are missing for a resolution on the reversal and structure of the period. The government promises 550 new nurses at the time of the programme. They're not financial. They won't increase unless at best 150 if the plan works. It's in this field, like so many others, you're getting dust in the eyes of the common people. This cannot be supported, so we make these adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u30	Mr. President. A reference to poverty and misery - this is the word - word - for - word opinion of Iceland's Institute for Economic Plans. Is this why? Councilmen in politics? The increase in money that is guaranteed to the elderly in the program is mainly due to increase in this group. In the case of micro-piercing, the increase is more than an increase of only 4 billion, which, in turn, does not cover even one third of a dollar's delinquency against a dollar's impairment, much less for other gradations. The company wants to make up for this and thus contributes to a rise of 4.5 billion. Thus, here is the opportunity for members of the government to fulfill the promises that they have all repeatedly made to older ones and microorganists. Let's stop letting these groups always come back. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u31	Mr. President. Here we take note of putting the same amount in pediatrics as those in the left green have spent the entire week fighting for the arrival of food and taxacons. The government's lost the prize, but the space of 3 billion must still be there, right? The financial program does not add additional dollars to child - welfare benefits. However, the union wants to be more supportive with family members, since being young in Iceland is far too expensive today. Five months ago, members of the state of VG passed our proposal for more money on child welfare. I can't believe VG's doing it again today. The politics business of VG is not offering suggestions on child reform, but it seems to me that the left green has changed its business for three ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u32	Mr. President. It is a fundamental human right to have a home and an important part of the security of children and the ability to develop successfully. It has never been so expensive, though, to build a home as it is now that the United States wants to meet this group with its proposal. Note that this proposal is similar to what the government felt would have room for, a few days ago, to reduce the budget of the country's development through, the big business, and the people who had nothing to do with the money. All the suggestions for the United States are now under way. It remains exactly what the government and the government thought they could do. I can't believe people in this room don't support this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-06-08-71.u33	Mr. President. This proposal allows for a special addition every year to the next five years to the legal institutions of the South American government, the National Institute of Health, the police and the Southnes'Multilanguage School, due to unprecedented population growth in the region and correction of less donations in the past few years compared to regional institutions. The total amount is 700 million and divided over five years. It is funded by 7% of the state's clean income of the sale of property replaced by the U.S. Army at the disposal of the defense force.
