ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u1	The president considers that a meeting meeting can last longer than the council can expect, until the first part of a discussion of the 3rd session is complete and planned. The organization will be further explained later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u2	Borist has received a letter from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gritary minister asking for a written answer. 496, on travel costs, and on the money of the minister and the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Borist has received a letter from the travel, industrial, and innovation secretary where request is made to provide a written answer to a spell query. 500, the travel expenses and the money of a minister, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. There have been two letters received from the Minister of Justice requesting every time to give written answers to questions on the subject. 493, for the travel expenses and daily expenses of the minister and the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and for the threshing floor. 483, on the basis of the Commission's work, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Finally, a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister has been received on request every request to provide a written answer for the requested request. 488, on the basis of the Commission's work, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u3	To answer these questions: Economic and economic ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, transport and local government ministers, and education and cultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u4	A respectable president. I don't need to use the two minutes I have for this inquiry that I want to direct to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. She's short. She's lying to me that I have a dream. I have this dream that someday we will be married, that all members of the council, wherever they stand, will be united in the fight against poverty. That we, who have been chosen to care for the welfare of the nation, are worthy of it. That once a five - year budget is presented, there is no doubt as to what the priorities should be. It's our people that are supposed to be taken out of parentheses and should always be number one. Sadly, this is not the case with the financial program we are considering later today. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: When is it possible for this dream to come true? Can you imagine it? When is it possible that we will live up to the responsibility given here as lawgivers in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u5	A respectable president. I think that day will soon come when we can say here at the council that the work is done. At the Council, we often address how we can best create the conditions where government funds are in place to support those whose feet are in the community, those who have not been able to save their retirement years, those who have disability, those who for some reason find themselves in the social situation that they need help and help, those who are ill. I have always emphasized that it is the most successful thing for the State to live up to this responsibility so that we can do this crucial piece of film - making work, highlighting the value of the country. It has given us the ability to do better. If we now look back a few years, we will see that such emphasis is directly upon all the people of the land. Thus, in the last few years, we have been able to increase contributions to the social security system by tens of billions. That is why we have been able to give more attention to those who had trouble. A senator is mainly fighting because there has been an increase in value here. We're creating more valuable things from the sea. In recent years, we have drawn more fish and valuables from seawater. But at the same time, we're building up with our energy, more wants to come down here and do our industry. The number of tourists has increased each year. With generally healthy competitive conditions in Iceland, our high value creations continue to grow and, in a relative way, may be able to support them as well. A senator speaks for himself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u6	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for all this beautiful list. It was almost what I would have said myself, but the worst part of it is not to do anything about it. I don't care how many fish we pull out of the ocean when there seems to be room to lower a special bank tax, when there's room to build Icelandic intelligence, or is it possible that an unsurpassed Iceland could be there when they don't have a house to spend? It is not enough to talk about how we make the money and how we get things done. We must put it first too. We can't even take a personal discount on those who have nothing to do with him, such as me and others, probably everyone sitting here. So, what do we, as high-priors, have to do with 53,850 bucks? In person discounts, while watching poor people get paid down to 200,000 even if they have a family? It's not setting priorities properly. I'm calling because we're putting our arms around the people who need our help. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u7	A respectable president. Yeah. The fact is, if we consider the figures of reasonableness, we have made significant progress in the areas of great importance here. Reservations for pension workers whose roots are due to legal adjustments at the Council of the autumn of 2016 are one example. Another example is the plans for rights and reforms for disability, financed by the government's new financial programme. Little unemployment is the third. Low physical growth, the lowest growth in the observed mortgages, is another example. [[Up front.]] This is how we might continue to pick up the examples of how we've done well, and we'll get along well when living in Iceland is set up in an international comparison. [[Up front.]] I went to France last year to accept recognition for Iceland, the biographer that was being introduced there, ended in first place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u8	Mr. President. We will remember all the discussions about the market agreements, there was a certain agreement about them, and it seemed to each of us. But it must be said, as it is, that the then president of the Committee, hm. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, used himself for some of the compromises in specific fields, including the import of non-toll-free cheeses. The employment agency has been advertised for applications for new toll-free agricultural products, but in the ministry's advertisements, all the tollovite for so - called speciality, the goods we know, Parmesan and Rochefort, which are from originists, are not immediately advertised all in the first year the duration of the contract. This is contrary to the very clear will of the Generals, who said that in the first year of the contract, the whole mass of the agreement should be introduced. However, the ministry's advertisement advertises only 37 tons of special cheese instead of 140 tons. These consumers in the country are missing out, except I'm convinced that certain international competition is very strong and important. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is not prepared to do what he has to do. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has already proposed to a professional committee, to encourage the committees to deliver a special Senate case simply to solve this problem, to resolve this problem, to address Alduke's wishes, and then to see if he will support us on the Committee not to complete this matter, preferably on May 1, at which point the agreement with the European Union takes effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I heard about it a while ago, and I wanted to see if it was part of a legal bill to cut it back. That's my answer. I think there's been some sort of legal error at the council. So you would have had your hands cut this thing down. But my will stands clear to the level of contracts made. As I mentioned at the outset, I requested to the Ministry that it build a legal bill in that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u10	Mr. President. I want to express my great pleasure in this answer to the highest degree. Minister and understanding and respect of the Council. It also matters because the Lawgiver's will is very clear in this matter. I'd like to commend the highest. Minister for very specific speech. Perhaps more ministers could learn such clear answers. I hope we can do this on a professional committee right now next week, on the committee week, handle this case, so that we here at the council can settle matters in the interest of the committee. consumers, as well as the international commitments we have made and changed this so that the state and clear will of the Council will be respected and applied. Thank you very much. Minister for these clear answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u11	A respectable president. Thank you, too. But it would have been much better if this case had been resolved at the end of the last council. It would have been a will, and it would have been a means to do so. But that's the way things are going, and I've said it, and I've reiterated my opinion that it should be done. I shall gladly go to the work that had been done better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u12	Mr. President. In the interest of the development of a financial program that is the most visible policy indicator of the government game, the highest power was observed. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs Bjarni Benediktsson, Castlight, crossed the stage. What I want to do here for a conversation is his words about an older citizen's interest. V.E.G. The minister said that reform, and then he was likely referring to the pension of senior citizens, had been in his time, Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunug, in the government just less than 200,000 dollars. a month, but it would have risen to 300,000 dollars. He said 300,000 bucks. in itself, not much progress per month for anyone but that it was, to be quoted at the highest level. Minister, minimal improvements that would have changed on his watch. He then got out by saying that governments put everything above the money of the state in these lawsuits over the last few years. Mr. President. I don't know which way to laugh or cry over this media entrance. Minister. There he allowed himself to claim that the minimum value of life had been raised to 300,000 dollars. when the right thing is that the minimum life of an elderly citizen is no less than 239,484 k., less than 200,000, Mr. President. Probably a hell of a lot. Ministers don't care about 60,000 bucks. In the case of a quarter of the budget, it is said to be most irreverent irresponsibly irresponsible by the government's representatives, who use the legal authority to bring this up in this way. Hardly his intention to make a mistake. Rather, he could possibly be confused just with a little. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: It may be that, at last, the relics of the older cities of this country have been reputed, including from the Independence Party? Mega older citizens expect the Minister to complete the council plan to set out a plan to correct the terms of this group so that minimal pensions will reach this 300,000 level. which he said was not in itself a high forward for anyone? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u13	A respectable president. This is obviously the case because taking into account home satisfaction is exactly the same compensation for $300,000. That was the subject of the entire discussion at the General Assembly in the fall of 2016. There was no one here who was then a participant in the discussion or who has been observing from the time of its unbelievably large compensation, compared with the terms that were needed by those same groups, including. in the reign of the United States government, when the maximum improvement, and whatever. A senator is referring to a long distance below 200,000 bucks. per month. When I'm at the highest. A minister then published the strategists'policy of staging became quite difficult during the council because they were so far from the benefits that social security provided them with the same shelters they were talking about. The facts of the matter are this if we examine the contributions made to social security over the time that the Independence Party has been in the government in a very clear picture. It is a priorities for those who receive social security benefits, whether it is pensioners or others who, for example, do. take biofuels because in a short time, the benefits have taken from a total of 80 billion and are heading for a new financial program of over 160 billion a year. This is a clear priority. It has contributed to an enormous increase in the cost of buying. But as I noted on the presented factors, we must continue to do better. We need to make more valuable because if this development continues, there will not be a basis, that is not the basis for adding as much in these sectors each year as we have done in the past few years. I'm sorry. It's just the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u14	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for reminding me of the arrival of the United States and trying to clean up the delirium of the Independence Party over the last few decades of their farming at the General Assembly and on state business, because that was what the Conspiracy tried to do for four years. A minister was active in opposition to all good works in the field ministry. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It was very good. This question was asked why they were lying in the Kastlight Show on TV when it was claimed to be a minimum of 300,000 dollars. Home remuneration is only for one in four who receive this pension. It's not minimum pensions. It is a household supplement that is additional for only a quarter of those who receive this pension. Why, then, is it so important that a person in charge of the money acts like something that everyone receives? [[The president calls.]] It's just a lie, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u15	A respectable president. I'd be glad to take time to review the situation, as the Conspiracy left her in its own time. That would be, I think, for many things very interesting. [[Up front.]] In case of a moment. A senator wants to go out there, we can do that. But we put it first and put it first in the summer of 2013 to eliminate the impairments that had been brought upon these groups. Compared to 300,000 k. In this requested feature, I mentioned a second number that puts things in proper perspective. It must then be taken into account as a comparison. It is simply a matter of fact, so the discussion has become a matter of taking into account domestic replacements that truly go only to those living alone and recognizes that maintaining a home is more costly if you are alone when compared with sharing it with others. Then this household chores come. As for her, taking into consideration her, the entire discussion has been about 300,000 dollars. I've been on for years. I thought there was no news to explain here in this hall, where the discussion of its origin.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u16	President. It's the first time I've ever been to the highest level of inquiry. Secretary of the economy. I'm very excited about your answers. I would like to discuss today with you the most serious situation facing in the Women's Hospital departments. Already, quite a number of midwives have set their jobs free. In recent years, the health - care system has endured repeated surgery that has affected in various areas of the Land Hospital and other medical institutions. Nevertheless, the Women's Hospital, especially maternity and pregnancy and baby care, have maintained health services for newborn babies and mothers. In these departments, midwives have more employees. The work of midwives is absolutely necessary to ensure the health of mothers and children and to be educated according to their challenging work. But for some reason, their work is not valued for money. It now appears that the government's hardline policy in jurists will take quite seriously on this important class and on the important branches of the Land Hospital they work on. The notes of midwives are so far out - of - fact that during the past few weeks, they have left dozens of them. V.E.G. Economic and financial ministers are responsible for the government's staff and state's votes. Does he not, then, have the ultimate responsibility for the crisis facing us? Or is it somebody else's responsibility? And if so, what is it? Who Is Responsible? It cannot be said that the responsibility is with the unions because the last time midwives had a strike, the secretary of finance approved a law on strike. They didn't get to negotiate. In view of the seriousness of the situation, has a minister himself stepped into a midwives' conversation? Or does the Minister consider the situation more serious? Has a minister examined the possible consequences if a large proportion of midwives risked their work? And again: Who is responsible?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u17	A respectable president. It's a little tricky to take a dress-up interview that stands up here at the council and intend to exchange opinions on how best to make it work. I'm not going to any competition with what? A senator as to who we care more about midwives, me or what. Senator, I think they're important jobs. All I can say is that I'm one of the many Icelanders who have repeatedly... now continue the tastelessness here. [[Set up a law on them.]] I am one of the Icelanders who have gone to the maternity ward four times, and this has been a real test of the ministry referred to here. I don't think it's easy for us to go to any competition for each of us to appreciate those here. [[Up front.]] Even if we are faced with a problem, we are exposed to it. In that way, in the middle of the bridal session, when a bridal conversation was quite successful, and I've put myself in the way they stand, when it seemed that there was a relatively short period between those sitting at the bargain table, there was a change in the course of the business committees of the state and all, at least Most of the things that had previously been discussed about pushing aside and moving towards the negotiation table all the other challenges and new demands. As a result, the contract cycle has not been completed. We'll keep trying. Everything's right. A senator says, it's important for us to reach a conclusion. But there's one thing I want to do here at the end. In terms of lack of appreciation for the current agreements, however, it is now that they have historical roots and have generally been accepted by the trade union. That's the situation. We are not to associate with them in any way except that treaties are brought in general after discussions that lead to an agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u18	President. I had been writing to myself something for another kind thing that I'm thinking about getting out and keeping it simple. I'm not in some competition about who you think is expected of midwives. I'm fully aware that it's the highest. Minister has children. I have kids. Most of us have children, and we understand just how important a midwives'work is. What I'm asking the highest. To which minister is: Who is responsible for the negative consequences of midwives'experiences for society and especially for women and children? So if we don't get the contracts, what is the ultimate responsibility for the negative consequences of society losing these women from work and from the hospital for another job because their wages are not good enough? Who Is Responsible? That's the only answer I want.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u19	A respectable president. We appoint a government contract board that has the responsibility to test negotiations. It's a two-edged sword. On the one hand, the outcome of both parties must be fully tried. If he fails, it may also be a great responsibility to meet the demands that make other agreements completely upset. I can only say it exactly as it is so that no one is told that the demands that have been made today are completely unacceptable to the government's negotiation committees because they would set examples that set any other dress code talks in this country during this year and the next, completely upset. [[Up front.]] That's a situation we're not going to create in this round. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u20	A respectable president. I'm coming up here and I'm going to make a direct inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of transportation. On May 7, 2012, a contract was signed between the then secretary of state, finance minister, road manager and mayor, or mayor of the capital area, with a view to delaying major projects for 10 years, and over the same period, some a billion would be added each year to support public transportation. The objective of this agreement was, as it says, by permission of the president: ▪ The target must be at least double the share of public transportation in all trips to the capital area. The results of this experiment will be reviewed in progress assessments every two years, and contributions will then be reviewed. In the 5th. The contract that deals with contract time says, by permission of the President: This match is made for 10 years. On May 7, 2012, the contract goes into effect on May 7, 2022. The contract shall be revised every two years... Reexamination should be completed prior to April 11th at a time. It is then stated in a special paragraph, by permission of the president: The contract will be reviewed on April 1, 2018, with a careful assessment of the results of the project in view of the continuation of the contract time and the change to the agreement in the light of the evaluation. It is now in place, and the core leaders that are included in the contract package were that at the time, the total number of travel taken by public transport was 4% in the capital area. Now new data are available, and it turns out that percentages are exactly the same, 4% total travel by public transportation. So if this were the only change, the result is no one. That's why I'm curious to hear from the highest level. A minister of what came out of this review that ended now April 1st, 2018, which is the largest review of the contract period.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u21	A respectable president. That's right. That's right. Forecasts, there was a high goal for people to make changes in their means of making more use of public transportation. The experience of the past few years has, in fact, been the opposite. We have also been looking at this on public transportation in the region, where the same trend has been in the last year, even in the last two years. The increase that occurred during the first few years has not continued at the same rhythm and has even diminished in some areas. Total support and how we can succeed in this public transportation is considered. The national participation and the road system have issued these contracts but have been ready to extend about one year while a new system is being developed. Regarding the deal here in the capital area. A senator in particular asked a particular question, and I have not been informed about its precise conclusions. I don't know that either party broke up with the deal. These data, of course, have been reviewed at the same time as they have wondered if there is a significant increase in public transportation in the capital area to solve problems that may arise in increasing population. At the same time, both the Ministry and the Vega have been involved in the development of rural areas in the capital, where people have taken on these grounds of transportation, but with the warning that more than public transportation was to be considered. This is all transportation, for, of course, we need to solve the problem overall, especially in view of the fact that evolution has not been in the sort of problem originally expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Pre-Service Minister. It would be interesting to know if the highest. In view of the fact that the results have been most limited, a minister considers it a real option to accept that the state cancels this agreement, in view of the fact that the results have been most limited in view of the main presidency that man gave to himself in 2012. We know all the traffic problems that are faced and just to mention a package of adherence to the contract made at the time is listed there as implementation, a summary of major construction projects that will be delayed. Many of these projects would have a significant impact on traffic flows within the city today. So the choices that men faced five years ago and chose to put a billion extra into public transportation at the same time that a major project was delayed are made responsible for the fact that there is now no success, none. Public transportation was 4% five years ago, 4% of the total number today. Does the government's contract seem realistic to the secretary of transportation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u23	A respectable president. I think it's very important to put a little weight on this, although there's been some slight increase in this but not at all in the rhythms that men put on. It is also clear that delaying, delaying, or delaying other important transport activities will not go on indefinitely. In view of this, the Ministry and the Road Building went into a two - important group of drivers, on the one hand, that there was no debt to it and that there was an overall analysis of how the public transportation, the proposed city line, would look and what other road procedures, transportation procedures would need to be carried out together. Recently, such a control group yielded quite a considered proposal. Of course, we need to consider the wise course to take. I am totally willing to examine with an open mind what is best for transportation in the capital area and how we do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u24	Mr. President. This is a request for a review of the Government's review of how the management board conducts its information duties at the Generals, with all members of the Parliament, with us members of the Parliament. This means, in effect, that the Federal Relations Research Centre of the Generals reviews in a clear way how much this costs, whether there are resources, staff, etc., to handle this information so that at the Council, we can take care of our role in the management of the European Commission. It will be very helpful to review this, because what the Kingdom Accounting will do as well is to offer improvements. It may be in the form that it may be cheaper just to have this open instead of asking questions about information that may not have been published. Look forward to seeing the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u25	A respectable president. I notice that this request has been changed and the document has been printed. I have to say that I feel that it has been better, so I'm not going to deny that this request is approved at the Senate Hall and that it votes. But I can't bear to comment on this vote that I feel that the council is a little too much to give up on me simply doing things for myself, depending on a number of points submitted to the Ministry or, as in this case, a state accountant, who, of course, is expected to take on individual matters, unique subjects for observation. This, of course, should be the case with its own authority. When we're beginning to ask the European Commission what tips the council has made, or what has happened to initiatives and other such activities, I feel that the council is really sitting on hand and recognizes its inability to perform the role of surveillance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u26	Meeting arrangements are made for a financial discussion of 2019/2023. Will be that discussion today, tomorrow and the beginning of a meeting on Friday, with the final tour. Today, there will be a general debate about the financial agenda followed by the development of financial and economic ministers, but tomorrow, Prime Ministers will join in the debate on individual issues. Financial and economic ministers have up to 15 minutes to their reporting and become allowed duration of response, i.e. It must be ensured that representatives of all government groups will be able to give a full answer to a minister's speech. Then, in this first part of the discussion, between one and two members of the Parliament speak from each body of members, i.e. If they choose to do so, they can appoint two speakers of the government's stand. Then, the usual speech time rules on these talks will be given and the answers will be allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u27	A respectable president. I recommend a judicial hearing on the financial agenda for the 2019-2023 that has been distributed on the roof. 716. As we have seen, the plan should be established for the Council no later than April 1. It was so happening, by the way. As a result of administrative exchange, the development of the financial program was somewhat delayed, and so was April 1 on Passover Day. The two factors led to the failure to meet legal deadlines, and the schedule was submitted several days later. She was introduced immediately after Passover, April 4, and submitted to the same day at the General Assembly. As we have seen, I also want to know that printing the plan up and correcting several diagrams in the workout of the environment proved necessary. I want you to know that it has no effect on the Senate arrangement itself as it once was printed, but several diagrams needed to be adjusted because they had not been updated to match the final changes in the plan itself. A proposal for a resolution on the budget for the next five years is now proposed to the World Council for the third time and for the first time by this government. The programme includes the implementation of financial policy targets and the implementation of sectoral policies, paying and the economics of public citizens, i.e. Part A, part of a country, and a community, and a business owned by them. This means that the aims of eco- and debt development should be the same in financial programmes as presented in financial policy. Economic and financial policies include public contacts in general, i.e. State, rural society, government companies. As far as government business is concerned, making sure that decisions are in harmony with the economic objective, especially that investments are less during hard work and vice versa. A key factor in securing sustainableness in public finance is the cooperation of the European Union with the European Union of Public Economic Affairs and its promoting economic stability and economic growth. Then I'll go up to the economic presidents of the plan. The budget presented here is based on Iceland's National Organization for Economics since February 2018. Economics project economic growth to be 2.9% and 2.8%, respectively, next year, and approximately 2.5 to ~2.6% thereafter. The future success of these forecasts will be the longest continuous economy in the history of Iceland. For this reason, I would like to briefly discuss the criticisms that have been made on the income side of the plan. First, I'd like to mention that Iceland's Institute for National Economics is basically similar to other people's economic forecasts. However, both Iceland's Secret Bank and the International Cash Fund are expected to achieve more economic growth for the next three years. None of these parties, or any of them predicting an economic advance in Iceland, expect to have a sharp recession of economic activity over the next few years. Based on these forecasts and analyses and the available economic indicators, there is no reason to believe that this will reduce economic growth more than expected. Of course, the economic wind will continue to be closely monitored. Each year's five - year budget and financial plans will take into account changes in economic forecasts. Thus, it will be, in turn, constantly looking to the economic situation both during the spring when financial planning is submitted and again in the autumn when the budget is submitted, taking into account the situation at a time. We go through this process every year, and that's obvious, including. Taking into account financial policy, that if the situation is changing, we will take it into account. The budget estimates that the recovery of the government in 2019 will be positive at 1.3% of gross domestic product, less than 37 billion, and that it will be positive by 1.1% of gross domestic product on average during the programme period. It is expected that the rest of the total wealth will not be less than 1% of gross domestic product in 2019 and generally will not be less than 0.83/49.0.9% of gross domestic product over 2020 202023. This means that the annual waste will be 2,434 billion. or about 140 billion k. Gathering up until 2023. As a result, financial agendas are expected to continue the remainder of the state and rural operations of the year in line with the financial policies submitted in addition to the budget of 2018. In recent years or in some 1,500 billion dollars, the debt of the state's funds has fallen rapidly. when it reached its peak in 2012 to 911 billion dollars. at the end of the last year. There is a decrease in debt due to responsible government policy, the reversal of state funds, and, of course, the provision of a stable supply to pay up payment. Other irregular incomes have also gone to subsidies, and we have reduced the size of the currency reserve in order to reduce our debt. In accordance with financial policy, a continuing decrease in the debt of the government is expected. It is assumed that as early as the year 2019, which said at the end of the next year, debt targets will be met, a year earlier than previously anticipated in financial policy, which is bound to be a most pleasant news. At the end of this period, the total debt of state funds is estimated at 740 billion dollars. and becomes the share of the gross domestic product with about 21%. These are very strong indications that we are using the economic growth to strengthen us over time, that we will be in the best interests of a narrower future position. A respectable president. The aim of this budget is to preserve economic stability and to ensure policy in public finance while trusting social infrastructure. The economy today is well balanced after the dramatic growth of the past few years. This even appeared. in little unemployment, low inflation, moderate inflation, and better personal property than has been for a long time. Outside conditions have been practical for the nation. In addition to much progress in most sectors over the years, the introduction of tourism has played a key role. The subject ahead is to preserve this success and to extend it through a concerted financial management, public financial and work market. Investment in the interiors of society is one of the key issues of this government. After a large decrease in debt and as a result of growth rent, there has been scope for infrastructure development and a clear signal in this program. In all, budgets for investments are expected to be more than 338 billion in an annual budget of acidification during the period 2019/2023. Among the major projects is the construction of a new Hospital, all of whom know it. Another work to take place today is the construction of the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. A better-looking infrastructure is expected at tourist locations, we're going to renew helicopters for the D.A., and we're going to continue the work we're going to do in a handsome way. Finally, significant donations for transport development and communication are expected and will amount to about 120 billion dollars in total. spent time with these groups of subjects. Among other major projects, there will continue to be abbreviated list and a growing number of nurses. This year's support system will continue to be implemented and better financed and aim to continue to reduce the patient's payment intake. Mental - health service will be greatly strengthened by a wide range of measures throughout the country and the growth of health care is still under way. In addition to health projects, there are a number of other projects within the program. These include large - scale contributions to border control and law enforcement, a special campaign for the treatment of sexual abuse within the legal defense system. In the fields of education, there will be a better look at the level of diplomacy and university development. It is worth the effort to reduce the cost of dental treatment for the elderly and the disability of the elderly. It is also planned to make changes in the social insurance improvement system for disability, but these changes will be made in agreement with the microenergy donors. In the field of foreign affairs, I would like to make a special donation here for development aid. It is estimated that during the period, the total annual spending will increase by about 403/450 billion, more than in the year 2022, except when it increases to less than 30 billion. This corresponds to 4,1◯6.8% of name growth per year and 3.2% in 2022. With the exception of interest costs, growth of primary costs is expected to be similar to the growth of GDP over the period. However, it is expected that it will increase some of the years of 2019,2021 because of transport. A respectable president. Despite reductions in tax ratios in recent years, taxes and insurance bills have not been more common since the collapse of banks. These include removal of the midpoint income tax and reduction of the lower level. Despite this, individual income taxes have increased by about 40% since 2015. The aim is to reduce the burden, to make the tax more reasonable, and to ensure effective tax control. In accordance with the government contract, the government will have a conversation with the labour market on the interaction of income taxes and the reform systems. Change of insurance and labour market rights will also be discussed. The programme, as laid out in the government policy declaration, suggests that income taxes are reduced to lower tax levels and expected to decrease by 1 percent. At the same time, a global review of revenue taxes by individuals and reform systems will be aimed at how the overall improvement systems are referred to as the implementation of the income tax system by two steps and by personal discount. The objective of this review is to look especially at providing handsome support for children's families and those with housing costs, especially early in their working years. This should result in more targeted measures to support household chemistry. Reductions in the next year's insurance fees are expected to decrease by 0.25%, thus reducing the insurance bill, the total cost, from 6.85% to 6.6%. At the same time, further reductions are expected to occur, but they must be agreed with the labour market partners, including the implementation of individual rights funded by insurance costs, and of course this must also be determined by the Kingdom funds beyond repairs. A tribute tax on books will be taken away at the beginning of the next year and a year will be expected to change the handling of taxation on capital pay when, in fact, they become taxpayers as budgetors. In the second phase, taxation on the media and music will also be considered. That's where we're looking at the year 2020. As foretold, a special bank tax will be reduced. This is a temporary tax that offers competitiveness in the Icelandic financial market and it is important to assume that it will decline in a five - year program. Taxifications for development costs and research will be reviewed, and the roofs will be raised immediately next year. We plan to decommission such roofs during schedule. Here we are considering the long - term competitiveness of Icelandic companies and the importance of keeping on the watch there. Preparation to review legislation on support for a innovation company has already begun, but the current law will remain unchanged at the end of 2019. There is clear evidence of the importance of a new government in the fields of innovation, research, and development. At the beginning of this year, the carbon cost of fuel was increased by 50%. It is planned to increase the rate, as the Constitution says, about 10% more next year and again a year later. Then, the strategy is expected to consider ways to hire tourists from 2020. A respectable president. Much economic progress has been made in recent years, long economic growth is ongoing. This has enabled us to deal with the government's finances and to establish more solid foundations in good cooperation with others. Company leaders. A strong position at the current State Fund enables the government to add contributions to building projects, to investments, and to support community services. Based on existing economic forecasts and analysis, there are good conditions to continue maintaining a solid economic growth. The main focus of the economy ahead is that all the major strategists come together and maintain the success that has been achieved. [[The president calls.]] The project is to maintain economic stability but at the same time provide the basis for continuing economic growth and diversity in the economy. [[The president calls.]] I suggest, most respected president, this program will be referred to. The legal committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u28	Mr. President. There is much in the financial program that leads to great disappointment and is, in fact, a measure of success in reaping the dissatisfaction of most people who have discussed it so far, especially in view of the total total total total amount of government spending to five years, so we are talking about over 4,500 billion expenses. They don't add a dollar to child damages. No amount of money is put in interest of interest, half as much as it is put in the construction of cabibs, almost no extra money in the next five years, and the college goes to less percentages than the previous government had decided, and the college actually gets one third of what was promised in the Treaty and makes it look like the OECD criteria. So it's clear there's no education here. In that case, the increase to the elderly and the disability of the elderly is mainly due to growing in that group. Even the great transport effort did not reach the long - term average of capital for that class. Mr. President. Disregarding the above points and the tax policy of bread crumbs may not be surprising in the case of the Independence Party, although this should be done in the case of the left green. The newly acquired financial policy received 80 comments and tips from financial councils and failed credits from most stakeholders. Even so, the majority of the budget committees did not want to make one of the changes in policy, since the Ministry probably didn't want to make any changes. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is it possible to change a financial program to the council's activities a great deal of criticism, especially to the mismanagement in which taxes are reduced at the same time as expenses are increased?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u29	A respectable president. As I took steps earlier, it is the third time that financial plans have been submitted. I've heard that song before. I heard him the first time, I heard him the second time, I'm hearing him for the third time. But the fact is, all the time I'm here to refer we've been doing well. We are able to expand our financial resources, keep inflation down, and strengthen the state's financial standing with payment, lower interest payments, and the growth of various community projects. Here we go. For example, a senator enters the child - welfare program. Me and what. A senator simply disagrees on two things. First of all, continued funding of the child - welfare system or the comparable magnitude of the child reform system that we have today is being ensured. If we hadn't done that on the plan, children's benefits should have been greatly reduced by a higher income and a higher estate in the future. The other is that we disagree that it is not supposed to be paying child support to someone who has about 1 million a month. The United States has always arranged for child - welfare benefits to go out to everyone, regardless of the economy or income. I disagree with you. It may appear in the child - welfare system, as it is today and in this program, that it is simply wrong to have a system by which post - incidents are introduced to a third tax level, as we had in our time, a special income taxation, a high - income taxation tax from people, which at the same time is defined in the need for child care. This is an incomprehensible operation for me on the tax issues of one country. I'll go against her. I can see that when changing the income tax system and the reformers, we will be able to produce better results by leaving, for example, an incident, I put all warnings on the final outcome, that we could simply reduce the tax percentage, accept the personal discount, and make benefits such as these that have no value for those with a salary of about 1 million, rather let them find their way to those who are earnings and mines. On the other hand, the plan has a clear education program. A senator may want to be more aware of how he would want to tax the middle class of his country in order to cover the expenses he calls on in order to qualify for. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u30	Mr. President. Let's just finish the baby benefits first. A married couple with one child who has both 470s. K. The monthly pay will not get any baby benefits. It's the highest measure. Minister to have 470 you. K. In a month there's a high-priority crew? There are people who lose all the child damages in this system. [[Up front.]] That is a very interesting statement made by the minister. He's going to fight the risk of putting extra money in child damages. This is contrary to what the Independence Party has been promising. Left - green families, including family members, have been used to provide support. with the child-replacement system. It is sad to see that the exact same dollar number is about to be paid for children's welfare for the next five years. The sad situation is that this government does not want to add another cent to interest. These are two instruments of government that have proved effective in meeting poor families and middle - income groups. This system has simply been clearly undermined. One-four is lost from the child-replacement system. Half of it's out of the interest system. The last time the Conspiracy was on the government, we spent 100 billion dollars. in interest of interest and child support in the terms of the season. The difference between these classes will not be clearer. From the tax business. I don't think turning taxes down primarily on rich people and banks is a bad priority. The bank tax is to be lowered, costing 6 billion. They're supposed to lower income tax by one percentage, 14 billion. It's as much money as the government's time to spend on child support. This is as much money as it costs to finance public hospital services in all medical institutions in the country. This is not a good priorities. This decrease in income taxation is most effective as income increases. A million dollars a person receives three times as much tax reduction as the one on the low income. It's a bad tax policy, and it's not right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u31	A respectable president. 1% tax loss is 1% tax reduction, whether you have high or low incomes. That's 1%. I thought peers were always talking for a prosthesis tax system. In such a prolific tax system, there must be some time when there will be room to reduce the tax of ourselves without going into the bank account. Because if we want to finish that conversation, let's ask ourselves, " How many dollars does the underpayer pay taxes compared with the man who had it? ' A senator is referring to him. That will give us another perspective on the same picture. The point is, we're talking for a lower tax burden for everyone. With regard to child support, there's a big misunderstanding. A senator is expected to have no steps to protect the child - welfare system. Despite the predictions we have ahead of the development of pay and property of families in the country, we do not assume that if we had no arrangements, child care would be taken. We're taking steps to protect today's money in the children's relief system. I've used many ways of getting pedophiles adjusted for the subsidies in the system so that we could direct more money to less income families. There is nothing else that is on the minds of this government than to do it. Right away. Consider the example of two individuals who live together and have 470 you. K. in a month's pay, he's talking about a family with 940,000 bucks. ... ingraduated. When you ask, "Is it the family that's supposed to fall out of the children's relief system?" I say yes. Instead, let us lower the income tax on that family, lower the income tax on both individuals, and stop sending them benefits as if they were needed in the community with an income of about 1 million a month for the home. Instead, send some improvements to those who really are under the alimony or just around them. We'll send the benefits where they belong. But the United States speaks for a million dollars of tax reform from the state; first, pay the income tax, then accept the compensation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for the tour earlier. There's some good things in this future plan, but there's one particular thing I really want to do. It is certainly positive that this is the estimated reduction of the insurance bill by 0.25 percentages, bringing the insurance bill from 6.85 percentages down to 6.6. If I understand the highest. Ministers are expected to establish a base of 6.6 unless there is further contracts or it becomes part of a labour market contract if it is intended to reach the ratio below. I've said that before in this speech chair, reminding them that prior to failure, insurance fees were 5.34 percentage points. Looking for the floor to be 6.6 percentage points and the government has stopped looking for further reduction, that means, according to a schedule now estimated to be 99.5 billion in 2019 as compared to the 6.6 percentages paid. If the price was the same before the collapse, and now all of us in this room know that, fortunately, unemployment is even less than then, that income would be 80.5 billion. In the year 2019 a total of 19 billion, more or less, which is the additional taxation on business activity, pay tax in the country. I must admit for my part that although I had a 0.25% drop, although it was possible, I would have been very shocked to see that it has gone down in front of the five-year financial program, and I wish that the secretary of finance might just go in on it and tell me if I understand the right thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u33	A respectable president. I have stated here that we intend to lower the insurance bill by 0.25 percentage points, and assume that in this financial program, regardless of the other changes being made. That's where I can even. pointed to the fact that in the context of a workforce conversation, we have recently made it clear that unemployment benefits will rise. Right away. A senator compares the insurance fee as it was when he compares the combined cost, i.e. and then all the rights related fees that work together on one insurance bill. If we want to compare our time with that of today, we too need to examine our underlying rights. Government funds are funded from the Social Security System, including with a general share of the insurance bill. This section on the budget side of the state's budget has simply turned basically over this period. If we look at it from a government fund, we have made a huge contribution to the projects that are being looked forward to. We also need to see what our rights are in a birth policy fund, which rights are in a job insurance store. When we have had that conversation in the past year - and I hear the labour market demand for both lengths and increases in wages, e.g. In the stock of birth ordinary, which rhymeth well with the course of the government. If we are going to finance that part of the rights, it will require an increase in that section of the insurance. Are we going to lower the general part, a cent for a dollar at the same time? If we do, we can increase our rights without raising the insurance bill. But then we'll be stuck with a much worse system of social security around the country. That's why I think it's time to think about breaking these two completely apart. Even talk about social insurance and other labour market insurance costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u34	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. So to be said, I'm very involved that the joints like these are going to go up, just to improve the feeling of those who handle them, where the costs are, where they come from. But there is another point that I wanted to fit in with the short time I have: it's about the message of transportation made in a proposal for Congress. This project is looking forward to improving 16.5 billion in three years 2019,2021, which is about 1 billion in excess of what is missing on the transport program in 2013-2016. It's all the big injections and the big campaign. I think the government has to have some further plans for transport development, but it's gonna make room. That's why I want to ask the highest. Whether they plan to pay further fees, roads, or any other form, which, in other words, are not financed by a trust fund. I assure you, there will be no reconciliation with the speed of progress reflected in the financial resources specified during this five - year period in society. So the question is, I can't find it in the council concluded decree: Are there any plans within the government to specifically add by means of a specific exchange, whether it's a roads, shadows, or anything like it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u35	A respectable president. In a financial discussion, some whose income growth is overcrowded consider it to follow a high interest rate in recent years. Granted, there is a need to draw the limit on how much expenses can be made. As we look at the combination, the picture in the financial program draws us to hold about at about the same proportion in the consumption of GDP. When it comes to the road, I agree with it. A senator says that we need to make significant improvements. We added about a quarter of what was previously planned for the road program, which will be considered to be a significant effort, especially during the three years mentioned. The question is, Is there more to be done clearly? We will consider ways in which we can do more and so as to finance it. We now have two living examples of such financing routes, one of which is Half - ravine tunnels, the rest of which are the Vaults that are about to run out. In both cases, there was a cutaway. In other major projects that are being discussed but are not all in plans - I allow myself to mention, for example. I'll hear from the local people that they're calling it the T-way, or just the remote route, that they're going to call it a "The." We need to take a deeper discussion at the council. We hope we can do this in connection with this financial programme, but this calls for a special discussion on how we are going to finance projects in road and transport, and that's why communications will occur in the coming years because this is a key investor.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u36	A respectable president. In the beginning, I would like to mention that according to a work plan, the budget should come to the council on March 20, so that it is not an excuse that April 1 is Passover, which will happen later. With regard to the economic forecasts discussed in this financial program, this is a similar economic forecast that was introduced to financial policy that has just adopted here. Any sources of financial committees simply did not believe that the economic forecast would follow through the prophecy period. It was said that no one had predicted economic collapse. And while it may not be predicting economic collapse, they will narrow down, perhaps even negative growth. I find it interesting that we get these different prognostications from our analysts, that has come to the point of criticism of the model they use, they use a similar model, and on the other hand, the organizations of employment and business plans and other people working under the economy on the grave, so to speak. So I kind of want us to do a little good at the comments we received about financial policy. For example, during the financial conference, there is no mention of any such tax returns. ... abouta reduction in taxes on the media. I would have thought that the tax policy that should be involved in financial policy should be reflected in financial and financial programs. But if they don't say there's supposed to be a down payment on the financial policy, the government tax policy until the next five years, I think it's very strange that there's a whole new tax downturn or tax increase or whatever it's in a financial program that isn't set in policy. We've just accepted financial policy, and I find it odd that there's a new tax reduction that isn't set there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u37	A respectable president. In terms of economic forecasts, I believe that there is no other realistic way to go than to build plans for financial projects on what we have provided. There have been warnings. Of course, the second part of the strategy period, the part in which there is only a weaker foundation for forecasting, as is generally the matter of looking further into the future. This is what I have discussed in my introductions in the introduction to my discussion, i.e. Of course, each year we will look to the next five years. If circumstances change, we will simply have to take this into account. But I don't hear those who come out and criticize us that we're following the Economics, which, in fact, rhyme well with the Secret Bank's economic predictions or after the events that the World Bank sees for, with nothing else in the discussion than that people should assume this could go wrong. It is a valid perspective, but I think that we are on the right basis to work with the information that is public and even if it has been given a warning, there is no reason to take the side of the income to review, in principle, for example. This refers to financial policy. The financial agenda is working with even more rougher lines than the financial agenda. I don't agree with what. A senator that any tax change that might be considered in the government's life period must be taken into account when it in the beginning of the terms of a financial policy. I just don't think it's necessary. The only thing that matters in financial policy is that a person has a clear view of how much rest is needed in circumstances that may exist and how debt is due. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, people are just explaining some of the key issues that then apply to the government covenant. [[The president calls.]] In turn, there is more to the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u38	A respectable president. True, the government must be based on predictions, but nothing is really done to ensure the fulfillment of the prophecy or the warning. In fact, I do not read it from the financial program to take into account the warnings and say: " These are the actions we are going to take in order to meet them. I did not say that any tax change in financial policy should be listed, of course not, but that it is, at least, extensive or dinamistic that it can cope with different circumstances and what tax changes it is or what else would be available in those cases. It wasn't on very many terms during the financial policy. In terms of the reduction in income taxation rate, the exact analysis by ASI showed that there has been an increase in tax burden among those with a lower salary for several years. Then I would feel normal about the changes and try to correct the missteps that have taken place in the past few decades, remembering that it was over 20 years in advance. In this respect, a flat percentage decrease in income tax would not be the means to achieve that goal. My criticism, in effect, turns to the communication of a minister in the past. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson This reduction of 14 billion would, for example. enough to take away this crown from a dollar that has often been spoken of in micro-energy transplants and even in other cases. At any rate, I would call for the data we've received about the discrepancies we've had in recent years, trying to fix it, but not something else, as men seem to be doing here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u39	A respectable president. An example of being cautious is that we expect to pay off debt faster than financialism assumes. But we had a good reason. A senator also made comments when I introduced the plan in my day. When we use caution and assume a faster payment, the financial policy allows for them, we also get comments, but when we base on economic forecasts and see to it what it says about the income line, we will not be careful enough. I think it's a paradox. I don't think that criticism works. [[Up front.]] That's how I get it. A senator. I don't think it's working. In terms of the income tax, I am not reduced to suggest changes in income taxes or other taxes in order to be properly decontaminated by the General Assembly. I don't recall that in the examples we've had. This government is in the middle of a conversation with the workforce on the implementation of the reform systems and their interaction with the income tax system. I'm not going here to give a presentation on the budget to tell me anything about it for what that conversation might lead. The objective is simply this: That the improvement systems together using the income tax system, whether we change the personality discount or not, will be better covered by the lower income groups and the lower intermediate groups. I would very much like to see the simplicity of the systems so that instead of being involved with people who are e.g. More than one million earn both personality discounts and even benefits that can apply to families who say three children under seven years of age, even if they have reached one million dollars. In income, we simply have less taxes, little or no personal discounts, and fewer benefits. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u40	Mr. President. At this point in the discussion, I would like to compromise its proposal rather than its individual components in the subject presented here. It's true, Mr. President, that the case we have here is one of the biggest if not the largest of all the people involved in this incident. Today, too, we are in a situation similar to that of a person who describes himself as "anxious " that for the sake of photos of the discussion, there will be no room for speech to be given to any individual Minister unless it is a very long time late in the evening or even until late into the night and then even not. The short time spent discussing this matter, which is causing great anxiety, especially in view of the fact that this is a real challenge to the Council and its financial role. How much better it would be for this case to get more objective, more complex, and better researched before going to bed. The legislature board is expected. For example, I would like to quote here what says about the objective of Our Kingdom Review on page 24. 148, with President's permission: The budget of budgets for all causes of burn and lawsuits, monitoring state income and reviewing all Member States Part A-sections each year. This is a surveillance role that the General should turn into their changer, so I'd like to cast it forward to the highest level. Minister if he was willing to take advantage of it, in cooperation with the highest degree. President, to make room for this discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u41	A respectable president. I would like to begin with this occasion to declare how amazingly great and positive a change has been made in the formation of the new laws on public finance and the arrangements we are here to implement, which are said to provide the financial budget for five years in the spring and in this changing environment. This is a complete revolution in a general public financial discussion compared with what was meant when I first came in here to a council, where I generally felt that there was too little discussion about the larger lines in the economy and a financial committee spent a part of my time on a special financial basis. Almost never was a general discussion of the issues presented here on the financial agenda. However, I wanted to keep it in check how much we have changed by setting these matters up and doing them in the way that we are doing. But I have to say, I still feel like we're still a little crawling like a baby, and maybe we're not quite up yet because we're still going to do better in building up all the skills we need in order to win this long-term plan. This summer, for the first time, we receive a report from the five - year - olds, which provides us with information on how to follow up the goal of the budget of the previous year. We're still learning this process. Regarding the time given to the discussion: I don't completely agree with it. A senator because, I think, I think, is a good time to go over the matter even if the discussion has to continue until tomorrow. There has always been a time when a part of the work, a heavy burden at work, a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u42	Mr. President. I can virtually say every word in a minister's speech, except perhaps the statement, perhaps in all respects. It is proved true that the process has been a major step and natural difference in the government laws since 2015 on the change of state culture and finance. Of course, that is to be appreciated, respected, and appreciated. Now, Mr. President, we have had to strike through this entire career because of the unique conditions created here on the political scene in the last autumn. But that's why I would have thought that this is a reason to improve and to provide more space for a more objective, deep, solid discussion. I also allow myself to remind myself that the cooperation between the three categories is not only about government cooperation but also about the expansion of the World Congress, as it says. That is why I would have thought that the full content would allow the General for more details to be discussed on this document. Remember, this document is a five-year period. It will take a long stretch of time into the next election period and will not be sufficient to stress how important it is to succeed in handling it and that it will receive the coverage here at the Council that it truly deserves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u43	A respectable president. No doubt we can have a different view of how much time is necessary to take the general discussion, but it is here 20 hours or so as to convey the views of the previous ones. this conclusion. I reiterate my view that it is on the committee that all the work really is doing. Here is an opportunity to convey viewpoints and to ask questions and to wonder whether these matters are properly prepared or likely or unlikely that these plans will work, or they should have other emphasis. The committee can then expand much more in the economic forecast and, of course, in later discussions, when all committees are considered, they will be many others; the discussion will deepen a great deal more. I will not minimize the need to discuss this financial program with others. Again, I remind you, even if it's five years old, it's being revised every year. All the things that have been said here on criticism of this financial program and in the past, about the opinion of financial policy, I think it's best. This shows that we have opened up the discussion, and we are allowing different viewpoints to develop well - defined policies presented by the government. We've been completing our discussions about the policy and policy plans for government finance, and although we're still going to get up and run fast in the strategy, in the relations of the Parliament and the individual professionals, I think the first few years in a new environment are going to be a good start.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u44	Mr. President. I am among those who were keenly interested and with considerable anticipation when the council was working with the laws on public finances and molding the emphasis on the people there. I must admit that then, in another sense, I was concerned that the maintenance of these laws would not be enough. I must express my frustration by being right, i.e. the restraint of those laws seems to be nothing. The word most commonly used in this part of government, is large attendance in all areas. In fact, it seems that it has become a special sport of the Independence Party, which has been proud of its conservativeness in public financial affairs to beat Iceland record in an expansion. Although I am an ambitious man myself, I find that interesting to me. This refers to a quick increase in expenses of some 260 billion, from 2017/223 to count, that seems to be a 36% increase to me. All of this is done with declarations that in this year so well, economic forecasts are so practical in spite of all warnings. I want to reiterate that we should not belittle that the warnings have been unusually strong this time, much stronger than we have heard many times before at this point and were e.g. In 2008/2009, complain at the time, that the warning had not been clearly given. That's not right now. A recent financial minister stated that this is most likely to be too conservative. This is based on similar economic leaders, no matter how practical they may be. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: Why the dramatic change in just one year?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u45	A respectable president. With the review of last year's discussion, I'll only have to put it in the right context. They were talking about the destruction of not enough. I was answering criticism that there was not enough extra expenses, not enough. Then I told them that if anything was, we would be playing the most dangerous game with the currency, which is why the plan might be the least overly conservative. Regarding the maintenance phase we're working on, and whether we could have entered the financial rule, as mentioned in the Committee's Committee to Refect at the time, that there had been speculation in the Committee to add the financial rule a special charge panel, such as that there should never be an increase in expenses beyond national production. It was our assessment at the time that there was no reason for this. A senator says: Now it has been shown that there has been so much and so much expenses. True, they have grown much, but we have been defending them for good reasons. If we look at the entire budget, then there is still a balance. It's built on solid ground. The cost increase, for example, if we look at the mix, how it is developing during this period of land production, despite expenses. What's happening? We are simply becoming more wealthy as a nation. We're gonna be able to do better. We are a nation that can buy more expensive drugs, support older ones and poorer ones, run better health care services, take a better part in the payment of patients, place more money in road affairs and education, etc. without bringing in the world's wealth, because more income is coming in. For example, on the income side, marvelous things have been happening. Between 2015 and 2018, income returns to income tax of individuals to about 40%. [[The president calls.]] This is what we're defending back to society. We're more concerned with society. The same is going on in the merit tax. [[The president calls.]] Just a little less than a 35% increase in revenues of cost tax from 2015•2018. We'll bring it back to society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u46	President. The minister of finance well describes this fluctuating economy in which we live. It is true that during this time of espionage, money is often flocked into a trust fund. We've seen this in a long period of production in the economy in the past that the exact expenditure of the state's wealth as a share of land production has not increased, although the cost in dollars was estimated to have increased very much. Unlike other economy, we tend to grow very fast, but we also get very healthy together at regular intervals. There is no evidence that this swing is not changing. That's why I wonder, when we look at these baseline laws on public finance, about stratosity and sustainability e.g., that increasing government spending by 36% over a few years can hardly be regarded as a good sign of stability in terms of government funds. But what I'm more concerned about is that we saw, in the softest land we've gone through so far, in the course of 2001◯2003, that the income of our state funds was greatly added. If we draw it up during this economic growth period as presented here, we might expect a significant limp to be made up of government funds over the next five years, not leftovers. [[The president calls.]] How is the fund in these circumstances able to live up to the service code here being self-sustained in view without having to raise taxes substantially in the future? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u47	A respectable president. I can't quite figure it out. A senator is drawing up here. The fact is, it is spoken as if we have so increased our expenses that we have not looked for ourselves and have not lived in the best interests of difficult times in the future. Yet, since 2013 we have paid up 600 billion dollars. In this program, we expect the State debt to go down, the public debt, near the 20% mark. State debt will be around 20% during the planned period. If we compare it to the debt rule, it leaves 300 billion room for a balance or more debt before the next debt rule begins to be reported. So it is truly being made possible for the future. If that happens as long as it takes. A senator says that it could happen, and I completely agree with him, that there could be a collapse of business in foreign markets or that something would come up in tourism, or other exports had a problem, competitiveness would still be more competitive, etc., there's nothing wrong with a state's money getting thrown into a corner. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing wrong with that. In fact, if the economic premates are basically changing, we should take all of this for a review and the government's debt rule even assumes that we can turn the State upside down for a limited period of time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u48	Mr. President. I'm going to briefly discuss the financial program that is discussed here. I'd like to first bring it up, and really not be surprised, that financial plans are based on financial policy. This is a concern, as most people who dealt with financial policy were confused, unfaithful, and unrealistic. There were many comments at financial policy. A greater proportion of the budget decided to ignore all indications and made no changes in financial policy. Here we are talking about a detailed document, which is the financial programme to apply for five years with the possibility of revision every year. I fear that we may be following the same path in terms of a financial agenda that is unrealistic, irresponsible, inexplicable, inconsistencies, etc. But we will see in the case of the Committee, the budget board, what kind of response this program will take. But so far, most of them have been very negative. I am deeply concerned that this financial program is simply based on sand, as finance policy was called a dream vision of a representative of financial companies. The story is a lesson. That's why I don't understand why it's the highest. The secretary of finance does not take into account the fluctuations of the Icelandic economy, with its currency, have certainly always shown. How can a minister stand here and think that even though his economist governance has rarely ended in disaster, everything will go the best way? Why don't we get a financial program that takes into account the reality instead of the minister's political illusion? I think this is a concern. We live in a swinging economy, and history shows that we will experience future fluctuations. It is proper to be careful that external circumstances have been positive. We've been given a lot of injections through the tourist stream. The monster swam into our jurisdiction. The world's low interest rates and inflation have been reduced. So external circumstances have been practical for us. It has been a economic growth that can be celebrated especially after a difficult year in the collapse. We're at the top of the Good News, as far as I'm concerned. That is why the way we spread the good things that the Kingdom has to do with our life is so important. It is a concern for economic management, which is reflected in this financial plan and in the case of the highest degree. Minister. I've called this a very bad economy. This is to lower taxes at the same time as extra expenses, but still the others and this campaign plan is being betrayed. These three things work very badly for me, and I'm worried about them. We can see that the world's economy is at a loss. We can see that our economy is at a loss. I think there's gonna be some tough bargains in the fall. We see that there is increasing anger in society. The cohesive region, with all authority, is bringing evil blood into the common people. There is reports that 26 bankers pay one billion a year, one fourth of what this government is about to put in interest of interest. That's the kind of news I'm worried about. Likewise, it is interesting to examine the development of the cohesive approach in this program. V.E.G. A minister only mentioned it earlier. In the next five years, the use of alcohol is slightly reduced, and this is very interesting, especially in view of the issue left green has played out, especially with regard to the financial plans of the last government. Then it had the highest. The prime minister in particular felt that it was normal to think that the combination would increase, in view of the fact that much public infrastructure lay ahead and secondly, the population's age preparation was changing, we are getting older. This would require increased co-administration. So I'm surprised that in this first financial program in the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, what she criticized for a few months, i.e. that the combination as a proportion of land production is decreasing. When you look at the big numbers in this piece of paper, all the numbers are very swollen, considering that we're talking about government spending for five years. That's over 4,500 billion bucks. That's why it's an accomplishment, as I could before, how much dissatisfaction is involved in this document. This financial program of the Left Green and Independence Party, according to the Organization, is subject to poverty and misery. Is this the sworn government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter in his first financial programme to present a document called poverty and misery by the World Health Organization? The common relationship has also expressed dissatisfaction with this document. Industrial organizations have also said that the basis for this strategy is very low. And then the various experts, as I mentioned earlier, have criticized the reasons for this program of predicting that predictions are very optimistic, not realistic. Of course, we are concerned if we are working on an unrealistic record. The former headmaster of the left green says it's going to make things worse. It raises the question: Whose stability is being protected? The head of the Acdér's Work force is very harsh about this strategy, saying that it crystallizes reality independence and that the government's lack of understanding of the affairs of low - income workers is complete. It's another piece from the highest. Ministers who receive a very severe sentence from stakeholders, not just from the government position, but from stakeholders who are concerned with these matters. I'd like to go over a few topics at this point. We talked only about child support, me and the highest. Secretary of counter-reguage earlier. As I mentioned earlier, no more on child relief systems are expected. The same cent for child support for the next five years is due. There is no ambition, no injection into this key tool of the welfare system. One fourth has passed away from the child - welfare system, and a couple, as far as I could in the past, with one child getting no pedophiles if both parties have 470. In income or more. There's a political difference between the United States and the Independence Party. We do not view child welfare as support for the poor. To meet the costs of family members during that period of their lives, we view this as a reformation system. That's why we're supposed to make good - looking families with children. We can see that the birth rate has fallen, so to speak, fell. We need to make it less expensive and easier for the common people to have children and to do good to them. We'll see that child reforms begin to decline far below minimum income. They start cutting off at $22,000. per month. What kind of thinking is making child support begin to be out of the question at 242,000 dollars? a month? In December, the government groups agreed to suggest that the government's opposition to the decline at least. Start at the minimum wage of 300,000 dollars. No, the suggestion was, of course, dropped. This is contrary to what many members of the Parliament have spoken, and especially with the left green have they spoken. I've got a lot of old speeches that I can go over here, but I don't have time to go over all of this, since members of the left green have just been calling for more money in the children's recovery system. Now they have the opportunity to do so, and there are no others. It also provides resources that can benefit people who are trying to make ends meet in a difficult house - to - house market. For the next five years, there is no additional dollar in the interest system. Half of it's out of the growth reform system. This is also a concern, showing the political differences between us and the governmental parties. The housing support, it's halved. The amount of money to build up on the rented apartment will be halved in the next few years. It is not as if the conditions in the facility are so that we can afford to do so. The number of money that goes to older citizens and disability is mainly caused by an increase in that group. High school, this education, it gets almost the same dollar for the next five years. There is no education program to allow high school to keep the money that came from the shortening because it was promised in its own time. The university is getting bigger, but there's only one third of it for achieving this OECD target of a government contract that should be reached by 2020. That promise is a betrayal. The same is true of the five - year - old segregation. We're under the 10-year average in this regard. Then there is the tax that I pay special attention in his talk or in my second year. It certainly is setting priorities for the sake of the rich. It's supposed to reduce taxes to the income-rich bank, which, in my opinion, is a very peculiar priority at this point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u49	A respectable president. A long talk on the need for extra expenses was presented here. It is no matter where, in child reforms, growth reforms, which have been a largely expensive reforming system, totaling up to 15 billion today, or in other support of a crisis. Similarly, whether at a university or at a high school, etc., it was said that there would be much more to do about school. This, of course, calls for the question: What kind of financing is there? A senator? If we watch the income tax system for financing on expenses like this, it's clear that there's no point in talking about some very high tax taxes to meet the expenses of this kind. Then I'm talking about a high income tax like we've known him here in Iceland. It's quite clear that if you want to finance this kind of thing through the income tax system, it's the intermediate person that carries it, otherwise no real revenue will be returned. If specific taxes are being looked at, such as wealth taxes, it would be good for us to do so. A senator would explain whether he believed that the fishing project would carry large - scale fishing costs now reports that it is in a struggle to carry the latest charges. Or what else is wrong. A senator talking about? That's what I'm talking about. A senator speaking that the special agent of the bank tax, which was placed here in the traditional period, may be raised or maintained by a special representative, to squeeze the financial companies further? Of course, that tax just ends up in higher interest on the bank businessmen. Where is it? A senator is going to finance this? And how many billions does he intend to raise his taxes?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u50	Mr. President. I'm glad the Minister asked me about the taxes. I didn't have time to wear it here. This financial program assumes that the state is reducing taxes, that the state is going to give up his income of 25 to 30 billion. I think it's the wrong politics and bad economy at this point to lower the taxes by 25 to 30 billion while you're neglecting these fundamental welfare systems, whether you look at children's reforms, growth reforms, etc. There are funds that we would have made to strengthen the factors that I am stressing. I think there's a lot of money to pay. We see it, and new numbers from the Minister himself show that the richest 5% has 45% of its own money in the country. It's a group that can stand a whole lot more tax returns in my opinion. Likewise, we need to decide whether to earn more money from tourists. I'd also just like to hit the piss that we left men never want to lower taxes. What kind of bullshit is that? We've dropped the income tax. When we were in the government, we reduced income taxes by increasing the personal discount. We've dropped capital taxes when we were in the government because we set a cut-off target that took the tax from almost everyone, 90% of those who paid the capital tax escaped it. By the time we were in the government, we've introduced company tax recovery from investments in stocks. In fact, when we were in the government, we dropped the income tax from 18 to 15%. It's a mistake to say again and again that the left men or the Conspiracy can't lower taxes. But let us do so when the right time is right. We are not supposed to do so as long as we are financing the foundation of the welfare system at present. The nation has called for further infrastructure. The last election was about that, about the infrastructure. How amazing, then, that we still have a high school system, still having a child - reform system that is breaking down and decaying inside, still having a growing system that is almost gone, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u51	A respectable president. I think there's an incredible hole in the word that the Continental never wants to lower taxes. We've been out of a deep crisis up to a great rise-up period and we've reached the top, we're past the top of the economy. Not all this time, the United States has thought it was a good idea or it was time to lower taxes. Never. So I don't know that this is the local spokesman for reducing the curse on the people. I call attention to what I mentioned earlier. The income tax has returned from 2015/2018 40% higher to government funds. Is it possible to relax some of them back to people? I say yes, absolutely. Workers can be allowed to benefit from the well - being of a government fund. It is possible to do so. As for the bank tax, I have to say, just as it is surprising that there are spokesmen here at the council for extending it because of the obvious negative influence he has on the competitiveness of the financial market. It's probably what we're talking about from that tax, but it's not okay to make a temporary declaration of taxation, such as this, designed for a purpose too, and then fail to let that time pass or let the tax slip away. In terms of wealth taxes, I believe we had no particularly good experience with him. What I've absolutely missed in the debate on wealth taxes is that we're here talking about ideas involved in taxing a capitalist in progress, which is working for economic progress in the country. It's not like they're just sitting in a bank book and being free of charge. It's the money they're bound to, e.g. In corporate business. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u52	Mr. President. I think it's the highest approach. Secretary of finance always means that taxes are so bad, they are so bad, we should let people benefit from their work, etc. I can agree with that. People are to reap what they sow. But she always forgets the other side of this, i.e. that the public also benefit from a strong public service. The public benefits from the well - funded schools, the hospitals being well - funded, and the availability of health care, regardless of the economy. The public benefits from proper transport, etc. We're here in a community, we're in a rich society. Iceland is the 11th richest country in the world. If your priorities are correct, it's enough to play. It is simply not correct when a decision is made to reduce the income tax by one percentage; it costs 14 billion. Three times better, a million dollars a man receives three times more tax reduction than a person on the minimum wage. This is not fair. People don't live by percentages. People live on their crowns. This is a critical point. The bank tax: Of course, the time comes when it falls out. It's a special tax. But this tax reduction costs about 6 billion, the unique decline here at 5.7 billion. Why don't we keep this for a while? Why don't we save just this tax reduction and use this 6 billion, for example, to double the interest or to add more to the child's compensation? Is this the priorities of the government? Yeah, it's paying taxes on the earnings, paying off on banks. Even now there are ideas of defending capital owners for future inflation. It's a ideologies we don't agree with in the United States. That's why I'm surprised that the left green is doing it right now. There's a particular concern that the effect of the left green on tax politics for the next five years is the same as none, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u53	Mr. President. The financial strategy that has been seen here has led to disappointment. Under it, they have even. Advertising groups and industrial organizations are taken to name one. The big news in this subject is that the plan brings no good news to those whose feet are in the community. Children's improvements, interest improvements, and housing support, these important measures, are not at the top of the government's list of popularity. Expecting that in the more favorable conditions of this world, groups of people, such as desperate and older people, could long be brought to nothing by timely correction. There will continue to be an inhuman decrease in income, especially in micro-terrestrial populations. At the same time, it is absolutely necessary for the government to turn down a special tax on financial companies, the bank tax, which is of particular benefit to the hedge fund. They will profit by 2 billion from this reduction, a total reduction of 5.7 billion. This is a special interest for the Independence Party, and it is evident that the left green and socialism group have a tip - of - the - toes around the highest level. Secretary of the budget in this case. This slavery at the government's hedge fund is not going to end. Who would have believed that this was the emphasis of the left green, that this was the focus of the highest. Prime Minister Katrín of Jakobsdóttir's daughter? Let's improve the interest of older people. Let us secure the involvement of older people in all areas of society. Older people are a resource. Those are beautiful words. They're from a left-green policy for the last election. VG just forgot to say that if they got power, they'd tax this resource, and they'd be the most. The financial programme says that a cent is under way. However, actions and timing are not seen in this program. In other words, there will be nothing done in this injustice for the next five years. How sad that this society is once again put aside despite its wonderful promises! There's quite a point for a lot of things in this program. Words such as ◯Develop in a way as to be thought, to be published, to review, and to review, and to revise, to express yourself in many ways. It's less common for terms such as making a ◯ and enforcing a way of doing it. Basically, this plan is optimistic when it comes to wealth, wealth, and economic growth. That is a problem with what appeared in the main majority of the narratives received by the financier of financial policy. A decline in the quality of the maps was made clear. The late bank described even. worry that the government's financial policy was not conservative enough. It is positive that during the financial period, efforts continue to reduce the debt of government funds and, toward the end of the period, 223 C.E., should be aimed at a debt rate as a fraction of GDP to 21%. Interestingly, in many respects the debt status of the state fund is much stronger than it was before a collapse. It involves the central stability of productions from broken - up banks, led by the head of the Central Party and by the highest degree. Recently, the prime minister gave him special thanks during the discussions at the council. While it is certainly important to pay off debt, the spokesman for financial matters and prefers a minimum debt, it is wise to discuss whether it is more reasonable to pay off debt at the same time as internal debt, such as the road system, is damaged. It is similar to spending nothing on maintenance of your house, and eventually it falls into value and even becomes unusable. Forests such as road systems are valuable that must be maintained, especially for safety reasons. As we have seen, for the next three years, since 2019 the government intends to add another 5.5 billion to its special transport campaign. It's a total of 16.5 billion. It has been shown that the campaign will be financed by bank payments. In this regard, it may have been possible to double this amount if the government had stood up in the Abilon Bank case. In addition, there is a 25% rise to the seminary from the 20163/42018 budget. While there is a need far greater, as everyone knows, and it has been observed here. at the top of the question. Secretary of finance. In addition, the government had raised high expectations for the public, especially since it had large statements about a major effort in this series of issues, statements that since then have not lived up to expectations. In fact, this government was formed of that series, the infrastructure. The strategy reflects the focus of the government's creation. This has the highest. Transporter, including Say, and I must say, "Eror is now the dowry. " I'm glad that in 2021 the campaign is due to be completed. This is a very important community assignment. I miss the fact that there is no mention of the development of electricity in this program. In the next five years, single bridges are to reduce by nine. I find this to be a disgrace to a campaign that has been called a major transportation campaign. In health matters, it is not surprising that the construction of the Land Hospital is to continue on the Ring Road. There, government groups like the advance party have betrayed their voters in memory. Not to be specifically increased by health institutions in the country. The chapter on agriculture is interesting. First of all, the government is clearly not concerned about the tax agreement with the EU, which will take effect on May 1. To meet the great impact of the customs contract will bring on domestic agricultural production, there are no counterrequisite measures in the financial programme. Let's not forget that about 11,000 people have a field of agriculture and that all countries protect their agriculture in one way or another. A number of agricultural jobs may be at risk because of the contract leading to an increased import of agricultural products in competition with the Icelandic agriculture. This applies especially in meats and cheeses. In turn, what measures will the government take to meet the increase in agricultural competition for import from the EU? It is to be solved, as the plan says, by innovation, product development and technology use options. Then, with this contract, there is an increase in opportunities for agriculture. Farmers have not seen these opportunities. A panel has concluded the need to cancel the contract and to renegotiate the contract, including because of a broken end. Now that the British are passing out of the EU, our largest and best market area will be removed from the contract. A competition is good, but it must be on an equal foundation. The contract is inconsistent and needs to be renegotiated. Sad to say, a group such as today's forward movement in the government and has always made it appear that there is no concern for this matter to be of special interest to farmers. There is no discussion of the EFTA Court, which judged that the import restrictions on raw meat were non-saturable. So it seems completely out of control how the government's going to respond to the court. In the next talk, I will discuss this subject and other emphasis found in the financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u54	Mr. President. For the next five years, the budget has been measured here. The strategy involved is a development program with large reforms on the interiors of the country. For example, the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir is very serious about taking advantage of the economic growth of the past few years in order to improve the interests of the people of the land. At the time of the programme, $338 billion will be invested in the interiors of the country, hospitals, roads, bridges, nursing homes, funerals, helicopters for the Hobourn, Herlf, and Husician to name something. It also invests rural society in trajectories, elementary schools, gymnasiums, and sewers. All of this plays together. In order for society to succeed in its long term, it requires good luck. This tone was given to 2018, an additional 47 billion dollars in the financial expenses. Of these, more than 17 billion went into the health system and had less than 12 involved in social and housing. At that time, an animal tunnel was funded and founded on buildings and bought at a more general apartments. The donations were raised to college and college by 4 billion. But you can do better than that, and this government is going to do so. Using a vigorous injection, the economy will be maintained as it adapts to lower economic growth. The wealth is good, it continues to be thrown away by handsome rest, and it continues to pay off debt. The annual expenses of the state's budget are increasing by 132 billion since the administration of the government. Before the last two elections, left green has spoken about the need for an answer to the public's call and has increased national spending by up to 50 billion during the election season. The priorities are clear, that ordinary people are allowed access to better health care, better welfare systems, better transportation, and better education. Then there is the future by increasing contributions to education and innovation. In addition, we need to deal with climate disturbances, negotiate emissions contracts by 2030, and prepare society to become noncarbonized by the year 2040. According to national forecasts that help to establish the budget, the Icelandic economy above the top of the economy. The projection assumes that the economy will adjust to the slower growth of the next year. Economic growth is contracting faster than expected, but it has been around 4.4% per year since 2014, which would mean that the economy doubles every 16 years. Thus, economic growth in recent years is hardly possible without the presence of the inflation ghost. During the past few years, growth has continued on a broad scale, while private consumption, investment, and export have increased to a considerable extent as a result of large growth in tourism. The success of the economy is very important, but it has been an exception rather than a rule in the Icelandic economy that after a period of growth, the economy will arrive quietly. It is thus a balanced policy to adjust the economy in a way that allows the long and short - term well - being of the people of the country. See, it is the only responsibility of responsible government, to maximise the welfare of the country at the same time, shortly and long. As foretold before election, there is no way to increase taxes on the public in Iceland. On the other hand, we are going to shift within the tax system to make it more righteous. The objective is to increase the provision of low income groups and lower intermediate income groups. As stated in the Treaty, a comprehensive review of the income tax system will be conducted along with a review of improvements systems. This work is done in collaboration with the labor movement to ensure that the change will bring real benefits to the people of the country. This is especially to consider possible changes in personality discounts and the interaction of reform systems, both childhood and growth reforms. It also leads to working with the labour market partners in order to extend and finance their birthmarks. Social and housing contributions are 40 billion higher in 2020 than in 2017. In recent years much has been discussed about housing and how young people are turned to cover their heads with roofs. The left movement's outlook on the future has been that housing costs do not exceed a quarter of the provisional element as well as supporting the development of housing on social grounds, so that renting will be a real option for young people in the housing market. Increased funds are thus spent on housing to achieve target of 2,100 cabib sprays set in labour agreements in 2015. Global improvements were increased by less than 5% at the beginning of 2018. However, the overall provision of future housing support is not yet available, but the policy is to complete work in reviewing income tax and relief systems for the payment of budgets in 2019 and implement the housing activities. In agreement with the Microcollar Community and Developmental Fund, there is a aim to re-evaluate and create a system-based reconciliation and to ensure implementation and next year 4 billion extra, more than system-based growth, due to an estimated increase in the number of micro-organizations that will remain in the programme period. Great changes were made in the social security pension that took place on January 1, which made many older cities dry-up, and in my year there is a reduction in dental records. Despite most older citizens living under a high standard of living, a section of the group with very limited or no rights from pensions and no paid jobs, low incomes have been made for their living, is in a public tenet, and even owes. In such cases, those who are in a position to rely almost exclusively on the pension of social security and to pay for it have been linked to their contribution. The government covenant shows that the position of the older citizens who are in a state of distress needs to be made firm. A special assessment of the optimal revenues in the Icelandic community provides suggestions for improvement and follow up. The focus on government expenses is health care. About $3 a.m. that leaves the state's budget on health matters. The nation is growing old, and people with life - style associated diseases are likely to increase in years and decades to come. The battle for healthy society cannot be won solely through health expenses, but it certainly can be lost. Thus, the State of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, stresses health matters and provides annual health expenses that increase by 40 billion in addition to the 20 billion spent at the first budget of the current year. A new International Hospital will be started and the construction of treatment cores, laboratory and parking space will take place throughout the season. Then they'll start working on the funeral building at the Hospital in Akureyri. Public pay companies will also be reduced, which is in the spirit of the left movement's policy, a green supply that wants to aim for the aim of all health care services at hospitals and clinics to be free of charge. Improvements in mental health and mental - health resources should be made in parts of the country where they are not present and in the number of them in the capital area. To achieve the goal of shortening the waiting period for nurses, they need to be increased quite some time. The development of nurses will continue and increase by the fifth of the financial programme. Similarly, the aim is to increase the number of day - to - day resorts and to provide special health care units that serve the elderly with mental and addictive disorders. It is important to increase the number of health care professionals who have a good working environment and a good salary because the heart of the health system is the people working there. It must be an opportunity for career development and scientific participation. The Torah was taken to 2018's budget, with nearly 4 billion spent to further the college and the future. After high school was reduced, high school was reduced, but high school now retains the money saved by the shortcut. The number of students to attend will increase by fifth from 2017 to 2020. Based on the economic standards of the Habitat, each student will be increased by contributions to the university. It is estimated that budgets will increase by less than 12% in terms of actuality during the financial period. At that time, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures will have a revised law on the loan fund of Icelandic students. The next year, the value tax will be paid on the books, which will benefit all schools, Icelandic and Iceland. It is the policy of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter to meet commitments in climates as well as the sustainable use of the land. Iceland has made a commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions substantially until 2030 and aims for Iceland to become a non-carbon object in 2040. It is also important to consider developing more goals while moving ahead in climate. Environmental contributions were increased in budgets of the current year and are further increasing in the budget. It's a total 35% rise in the seminary. In addition, the number of tourists to the major natural spheres of the country needs to be controlled, with the objective that 19 out of 20 destinations in the country will be affected by pressures. This aim is to develop and implement climate initiatives for Iceland until 2030, as well as to support rural and corporate goals for setting up climate goals. At that time, a central national park will be established and set up a national park to care for national parks and a peaceful territory. Mr. President. There is reason to remember what this government was formed for. It is made up of various groups that covered the party guards, set aside the major problems to reach common goals, to advance to the Icelandic community, for the general public of this country. This plan guarantees the budget. It's right here on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u55	Mr. President. There are many questions I would like to ask. A senator. First of all, about the child reforms. I'd like to quote her words, by permission of the president: ▪ It is not more ambitious when child - rearing continues to narrow the system so that fewer people will enjoy combustion instead of using them to increase the equation between groups. In these and other ways, the value of child - saving expenses is likely to be summed up, which means that there is a decline from general support for family members and no attempt to match their situation rather than individuals and childless people to small poverty aid. Those were words. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir's beak only a few months ago. How is it that it is behind a financial program that does not assume an additional cent for child support? Not one extra cent in child support for the next five years. How is that, I can quote here somewhere else in the same opinion as any? A senator is calling for more money in interest of interest? Why is this so? A senator is behind a financial program that assumes 0K. as well as interest improvements? Similarly, the senator has been calling for further government stocks in the construction of tenets. She was particularly critical that the money was being drawn together last year. That's exactly what she's doing today. The amount of money that goes into the building of cab sprays is to be halved. I'd like to get some. A senator reviews it only: Why this transition? Why is that? A senator's role in handling financial programs that are so contrary to what she said just a few months ago? I would also like to point out with regard to high school: Why is there no scheduled college attendance? In December, the senior schools visited a panel of budgetors and claimed that they have reached the limit of endurance and are expected to number almost the same amount of dollars in high school as they are now in the next five years. Where's the education there? Why are the left green to betray their campaign promise that the college level's contributions should reach the 2020 OECD, but what is in this program, including 2020, are only one third of the goals needed to reach the OECD target? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. We've been through this discussion before, this is the last time we took care of the budget on child reforms and interest improvements. V.E.G. In many respects, the minister of finance handled the answers I can relate to earlier. I've also said that I've wanted to rethink this system. We've emphasized the left-green that we want to make more use of it than is today, so it's just answered. Compared to that equation as long as ever. A senator who speaks by means of a tax system must also want to draw close to us in that regard unless he feels that no matter what, no matter what. I don't think so. I can agree that they should get those most needed for good. It's like the highest. A minister crossed: So that we can keep up with what we had with them, we took the necessary steps. Regarding the strain: Of course, we're making deals. We're doing it. I did well earlier that we are accepting the agreements made in 2015. Of course, setting priorities is clear, and we know it. We're gonna go down there where we think this deal needs to be brought down and we're gonna have to deal with it. Building what we wanted to build has not yet been achieved, since we thought we should have built already. Why? I can't explain why those who sought to get these institutions have not applied for them. In terms of high school, we are adding, for example, a 5.2% increase in a student between 2019 and 2020. There's a lot of money in it. So I don't agree with that approach yet. A senator says we're not adding anything. We're rising from 1.76 to 1.89, to close 2. [[The president calls.]] So I just don't agree with it, okay? A senator, that there is not a significant increase here in high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u57	Mr. President. It's just clear in the table. This is about the same amount that goes to high school 2018 and 2020, so there is no injection in high school. An interesting statement by a senator on the left green is to agree with the highest order. Secretary of the child's reforms, that this should be some kind of poverty. There are new reports in Icelandic politics that when it comes to child reform, the left is about to join the Independents. The Senator spoke of what this government was designed for. It was made for the common people. We do not see this in this financial program that the interests of the public are in first place. Why does it say why? So a senator for 1% flat income taxation that is most useful to the highest income? Why is the senator in charge of a recommendation to reduce the tax to the bank by 6 billion? And why is the senator calling for a charge charge charge in his committee party during the financial policy she was struggling against, this tax policy that was rightfully taken out in the financial policy of the previous government? [[The president calls.]] But then it stands. A senator for calling on the same budget. I don't understand those changes any more than many others do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u58	Mr. President. I'm gonna start with what ended here. I don't know what it's like to have called for something, not at all. [[Up front.]] I haven't called for a charge-out roof, so that's all they're saying. We made great comments to this rule, so why. A senator takes everything into account, 7th par. -The law of the law, 7th. The law, look her up and see what comments I made. A 13% increase in a student between 2018 and 2020, isn't that something? The number of students is down. Although the money does not increase by billions, we have fewer students who need to be financed. Of course, you can play with numbers and all, but you can't deny that if you have fewer heads than you get the same money, then there must be more on each head. Well, that's my formula anyway. As for the bank tax, I have to say that I view it, and, of course, requires that when the bank tax declines, you see it in interest. [[The president calls.]] It must be essential, otherwise the purpose is not accomplished.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u59	A respectable president. I'd like to take some advice. The senator notes that in this financial program, extra expenses are expected to be non-employed. In reality, a decrease in income is expected. What advice have key experts given to the budget on this kind of economic management, especially during economic growth? In addition, financial programmes show that debt should be paid down, budgeted, and not given any new State responsibilities. Yet, for some strange reason, the cost of spending at a subject 33 goes up on the budget, on the state of responsibilities, and on pension bonds. For some strange reason, it doesn't quite fit together. It should reduce anything that comes to that subject, yet its cost is increased. I don't quite understand why. The need for housing was mentioned earlier. It's shrinking according to the financial issues. Yet it says "wow." A senator's job is to increase housing support, put something into it. That's not seen in the numbers of the plan. It is stated that a special campaign for building apartments has been terminated, but nothing is said to replace anything. The numbers don't expect anything in return. I'll ask you if there's one thing left. A senator says to do so, but that doesn't show up in the numbers, is there anything to mark the figures that are left of 2019? I don't see it. Finally, what. A senator spoke very extensively about what to do. I'm sorry, I don't have much time to reach them in financial goals. I would have assumed that the goals to achieve this financial plan were not just what the left greens want to do without a financial agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't want to think it's just something we want to do and don't show up. There's money in here, and it's like a sledgehammer. A senator knows that we have not seen them torn to pieces on every case. There's something else that's going to be explained, and we're over there with the big numbers. We are standing, as I said, in our housing contracts. That is an increase from what was, but it is not the additional. A senator would've wanted to see. That's another matter again. In terms of income, as we have seen, there is an enormous increase in income taxes made by individuals. Because we have reached the peak of economic change and economic growth, we know how we need to respond and how the State is giving an injection to support resistance in the economy. We thus emphasize the importance of providing the basis for growth to continue and the standard of living. The treasure is strong. I don't think anyone can question that. Because the economy doesn't yield, at the moment we don't feel the need to attack in the tax system to fluctuate. For example, we have been told this with the fluctuation, and it is not necessarily wise when we try to stimulate the economy. Perhaps that is the main reason why we feel that there is no need for an increase in taxation. Of course, we will try, as I said earlier, to revise the income tax and other such in line with the labor movement as previously shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u61	A respectable president. I have previously spoken about a prior financial program and said that it would be most convenient to have an idea of a rough transition and the main priorities of a topic. True, it is said as if the land hospital should be built, where the emphasis is very easy to identify, but by many of the emphasis referred to as being generally missing the cost analysis, you do not see how much of the emphasis that is placed within the grammatical fields explains the rise to that class. I'm asking for a guess. It's for a senator. In fact, revenue has increased because of income taxation, but the increase in income has been linked to a number of other new expenditures. What adds to the criticisms we have received through financial policy, and in the past, the support we have to support our government funds is very weak to our economic rhythms. This means that if someone swings down, the extra income will be removed from the income tax, which has already been attached to extra expenses, and we'll be in trouble. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u62	Mr. President. I thank the senator again for the answer. We've talked about the better thing about getting further breakdown. Despite the fact that these are only two years old laws, some may say that there have been too many calls in the season, and somehow we haven't managed to develop this work as we would have liked to have done if we had passed through a standard period of time. There are many things we need to do in the process. We saw it, for example. Already printing again. Something professional has to be done so that we can deliver more information soon. We've been discussing it within a council of the left green how we might improve the process to avoid doing so. In terms of the income industry it is absolutely true that if there comes some terrible dive -- which I really hope not to be, I don't expect there to be a collapse, no one is predicting it as we did last time - a state fund is so strong above what used to be, and homes are in spite of everything much more than at the 2008 collapse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u63	Mr. President. There are a lot of things to say about the budget, but I'm going to allow myself to set priorities as it would show up in the main lines of this program. Of course, they differ in surprising support of individual groups established by the government in its priorities. But I have to say, there's a lot of surprise, so to speak, that the pack of whales. paritaprevir Gunnarsdóttir Gunnarsdóttirs can live up to the priorities shown, including the above. in that income taxation should be reduced in terms of not being useful to the most treatable and to those standing here, and so on, that the bank tax should be cut off, not 10, 20%, not 30, 40, 50%, but more than 60%. How could it be that in many respects a class of dignified pasts and ties with Icelandic labor movement, some of the most advanced labor leaders of the 20th century, sat in the World Council as representatives of the Class, perhaps the leading party of the second century C.E.? A senator, the People's Coalition, how can it be? A senator's defense against using that opportunity, since it is considered safe to lower the level of income tax by 1%, that it should not be used through the personality discount to pass the share of the palace's legs, the elderly, the desperate, the poor families and individuals, the children's? How can it be? A senator prefigured a tax reduction of more than 60% in favor of those who have the capital of life? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I must say, as I did in my speech at the outset, that we, these classes, decided to put aside certain differences and try to build a welfare community. We are adding, as has happened this fall on budgets, about 17 billion on health matters. And we are now adding less than 40 billion more. It can only be considered a left - green emphasis. I can't believe it. A senator believes that if the Independence Party had been in power alone, he would have done this. I think it's quite arranged that it's our focus of the left green that's out there. We're adding less than 12 billion dollars to the annual budgets because of social, insurance, and housing, 28 billion will be accumulated in the budget. It's all a sign that we left green is on, and then more and more on the environment and on education and so on. In terms of the income tax and its reduction, of course, so that if we had been alone in the government, we would probably not have gone that way. It's a deal to do this. However, the personal discount, as mentioned in my talk, will be considered in the context of the workforce and in any other way, whether it is the preferred way to go. I agree that it should. As for the bank tax, I said it earlier, and I'm still on it; I'm confident that the decrease in the bank tax will return to me on interest, otherwise the purpose is not achieved. The banks can't really do anything but return it to us. We've been complaining a lot about big interest in Iceland. So I believe that the entire community can be greatly improved if we - and nothing if - I just trust that it will work out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u65	Mr. President. I hope so. A senator forgives me if I witness in a sacred book and say: "Woman, great is your religion to believe that there is a direct connection between the type of taxation we're talking about and the wax that the banks require. Why do I say that? Because the banks do not operate in any environment that can be called a competitive environment, so they have a completely different way of suspenseing their services. I'll have to say, so I'll witness in another ledge. So Njáll was told three times before he believed. I have to let myself tell you, okay? Senator, that I must be told at least 3 times that is the way to build a solid and powerful welfare community in Iceland to yield to those who are on the money side of life, especially the hedge fund, more than 60% of what is being placed on this party. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u66	Mr. President. I may be so credible, but I've not been that special, rather septical on one thing or another. We are trying, and must face it, to make the bank environment more competitive. When the banking system was rescued after a collapse, many words were dropped. At that time, many felt that it was just fixing for the financial system. Of course, we do know that to function, society would have to get on its feet and work. I intend to trust that. There's nothing that says we can't change this later. It's just that way. In Icelandic economy, taxes have either been raised and dropped. Let us not forget that. But we are losing a lot of companies to foreign countries that get better terms and are thus not in the Icelandic economy with their money. This could be a way to back it up. I also believe that this may be a way of supporting someone's interest in buying so that we can reduce the property of the state of the system, such as U.S. bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u67	A respectable president. First, some general comments on the synonym proposal. I miss a tour of the values promised because they were out of financial policy. It was stated that there would be a better explanation in the financial policy, although financial plans would meet baseline levels on government law, but I am not. I miss that there are no costs to the government's goals and policies. That column was in the first financial program, but it was rather empty then, and that may be why the column was taken out, but I would have expected it to be tried better, but not completely removed. There are very many government policies that do not begin a study (s) or a reference (s) without a definition. This is quite remarkable, for every year ministers are expected to report to the General on how goals have been achieved and if a measurement is not started or criteria are not defined, there is no way to determine how goals have been achieved. Then it is a practical exercise and only an empty item where sails can be set along the wind. I have to make a brief comment about how we got the financial plan in our hands. It looked like a good advance, that we had the financial program for a week, could read through it, and study it before coming to the previous. On the other hand, I found a villa, I found a discrepancy of 10 billion in the report and the motion itself. I didn't know which was right, I contacted the Ministry of Economics, and somehow, there were more errors that would make up the summer worth of hundreds of millions of dollars of tablets in a report, but we were not made aware of each of these further errors. It would have been very easy to say: There are errors here and here, they will be fixed, you can read everything else in the budget and prepare for yourself as planned. Instead, we had to spend a lot of time examining the new, updated, and printed financial programs when they came and compared them to the financial program we originally got to see where the errors lay. There was a huge amount of time for what otherwise could have been used to prepare for this discussion. I'm going to review only government policies that are to be developed in the budget. The aim of the courts is to access them to payment, treatment of efficient and righteous, human rights respected, and the trust of the courts. With that goal missing the situation we've been in 2017, it's quite remarkable that you just have to look back on one page, and then you can read about a number of new cases a year, a number of expelled cases in Supreme Court and District and criminal cases, oral private matters, and all kinds of numbers on accurate status 2017. It's very strange that this does not match, that this has not been put in place for itself, when a page more is available to learn about this. In the tax, property, and financial sector sector, the collection rate due to income taxation, income taxpayers, and the worth of taxes should be increased by more than 1 percent. The scale of 2023 says, e.g. that the collection rate of income taxation by individuals should be 87% and increased from 85.7%. Based on that rate, tax revenues from income taxes for individuals were approximately 210 billion, but not 180 on this budget per year if there was a 100% collection rate, that grossly calculated. 30 billion are the amount that would in any way be enough to increase the individual discount by 27,000, which is what is missing in order to achieve evolution, or perhaps just build a new hospital. It's about the new building. The increase in the collection rate to 87% would give them less than 3 billion, but in the beginning, I have to ask: Why is this collection so low? I would've expected it to be at least in 90 and some percent. Second, how much income gains in the budget are estimated due to this rise in the collection rate? To see how important this goal really is, it is a little important. The second target is to depreciate by 1 percent, from 1.85% to 0.8% as a percentage of total tax revenues. This rate was 3.5% in 1996, and the main reason was said to be over-programming. I'm not sure it still applies today, but it'd be interesting to know why all the scripts are so high, 1.85%. Based on the 2018 budget, there would be about 12 billion written down. Less copies are now translated into more than 6.5 billion extra incomes. If these two goals are to be met approximately 10 billion I think it's better to explain what's going on. Another objective of the government in this area is the estimated income of special wastes because of land, nature, and resources that increase from some million to over a billion. I don't know if the fishing costs are in this resource-authorized standard, but the standard costs of nearly a billion indicate that they don't. Also, the share of government housing on market rent or rent based on cost base should increase from about 5% to 90% in 2023 C.E. That's interesting. An interesting goal is for government administration. There should be a complete policy for all topics. The situation of 2017 is that no subject field has a comprehensive policy. I wondered what the assembly should be doing in this process, but in the 20th chapter. The law on public financial matters says that a minister puts a policy in place for the issues he is responsible for. I believe that a panoramic policy for the topic realm is comparable to the synonym's decision and should receive equivalent treatment at the council. The Council must bring about the policy of the European Commission. I don't think that the overall policy for all the budgets is being passed through financial, financial, financial, or financial sectors. In the government's policy in the area 8 on rural and urban areas, there is no difference in progress in the country. The extrapolation rate is between 15◯65 years and those beyond that age. To meet this goal, there has been much discussion of how demographic changes affect the subject range of the elderly, increase in the number of them, and the need for governments to import people from 15165 years of age or send them something else to the elderly. Other possibilities are not available, for it is obviously automatic to send something to those who are between 0 and 14 years of age. I would like to know which possibility the government will choose and have some idea of who was the minimum number of immigrants needed to achieve this objective or to export the elderly. Regarding university levels, the goal is to increase the proportion of professors from 30% to 40%. Here it would be interesting to know how many professors are behind these numbers, how many are likely to leave the next one, and how many new positions will be created in the years to find out the sex percentage of new professors needed to achieve this goal. The proportion of academic workers less than 40 years of age should also be increased from 10% to 16%. What does that total figure look like? How does it fit into these changes in the professors'status? Next to hospital service. The use of people outside the capital area in expert service was 36% in 2016 according to a previous financial programme, whereas the 2016 standard for the current financial agenda is said to be 27.5% at the same criteria. Why this difference in position within the same year between the estimates, i.e. The 2016 set in this budget is different from 2016 under the previous financial programme? Why is that? And what happened to the building of the Fedhouse in Akureyri? It's on the last schedule as a specific operation, but it's not on this schedule. What happened to her? For ambulatory health care, the payment rate of subjects from 17.9% to 16.5% in 2023 should be reduced. That means the cost of 1,000 bucks. The account will be 165K. Instead of 179 bucks. The pay on the health care unit is about 1,200, which will reduce the return rate to 1,106 k. In less than 100 K., please. If the cost is $12,000. has returned with a thousandth of a discount. That's all this huge effort in reducing payment rate means. The emergency alarm should also be shortened to 90% for less than 20 minutes from this 75% event in 2017. It must be the cost record, it must be, and I can't imagine it being expensive. I want to know what it takes, like so many other things. Now I'm barely halfway through the material, but hopefully I'll pass through the rest of the media fields next, so I'll say, "Sit in your seats."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u68	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a national budget for the next five years, starting from 2019 to 2023. This is a third plan proposed on the basis of government law, No. 123/2015. Not long ago, financialism is now the highest. Governments were adopted here at the General Assembly, which includes further implementation of the aims of this policy, markets and development of income and pay and the economics of public bodies, part of the state and community and companies owned by them. Thus, the plan includes the same means of survival and debt development as found in new financial policy releases. The laws on public financial matters require that the plan, like policy, meet the requirements of the absolute financial rules for survival and debt as stated in Article 7. the five layers and baseline values presented at 6. their law, i.e. Sustainableness, caution, stability, firmness and transparency. In general, in terms of economic management, I would like to say that an important step is taken by this framework, I refer to them as legal laws on public finance and public financial management; to examine in this way the total income and expenses of the public and to conform to policy-making goals. In this context, it is very important to maintain good and close cooperation between state and rural society in order to ensure the economic stability and sustainability of public funds, so that the long-term state of the country is as stable as economic growth which must always be the underlying goal of economic management. To that end, it is also important to consider that business and investment companies owned by the government are in line with the goals set. I'm going to follow some of the factors that are outlined, mainly in the work programme, which is extensive, as noted in many cases. Senators here before me. I think it's important in this first round to look into it beyond the policy-making process. Without going very closely into individual grammatical areas or categories of topics, I plan to review the emphasis that is displayed, which is the main points, and to keep such a look through to the 2nd. regarding the matter after committees have had the opportunity to discuss the subject, to call for a presentation and further information from advisers and to advise on where the responsibility is in the area. In chapter 1 of this article, we will consider key goals and priorities. Governments. In this case, we can say that we follow the course taken in the 2018 budget and the new disposal policy taken and planned for the next year. I can confidently say here that the emphasis given in a government contract is reflected in this program and in the process we have dealt with since then. We have indeed experienced this long continuous economic growth, which highlights the benefits of society. At the same time, building infrastructure, trusting social services, and making sure that this is done of responsibility and firmness in the positive outcome over the years, and the fact that this is continuing to pay off debts and debts until the expectations of a few losses continued. Economic stability requires a definition, but if we look at the need for high economic growth in the past few years, the balance in most fields and economics is positive, although predicting that there is a reduction in economic growth in this comparison, it is important to maintain a high standard of living, full - time employment, and to maintain the increased level of money. In the present situation, this is certainly a balance art and a great expansion of investments. This requires injection and additional expenses that we can see in this schedule and is clearly suggested by the health care professional. There is an increase in science, and we saw it right away in the budget. It is really an increase in education and amendment in welfare matters. Governments up with it. They were chained to do that. The door - to - door agreements will be of utmost importance in this context and the highest. From the beginning, the government has put great emphasis on consultation with the labour market partners. It is absolutely essential to achieve a successful solution along with this schedule throughout this period so that we can maintain the stability here and maintain the level of money that has been achieved in the recent years. This is certainly one of the greatest challenges facing us, and it is clearly evident in this plan and is simply made plain. V.E.G. Since its creation, a government has, and since the State's treaty was published for 2018, put forth its government policy as the Council approved by March 22rd. And this is where we're going. ... ofthePreservationEnvironment Program as the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics has recommended earlier today. Of course, this is amazingly many things, much in such short time, but here we still see further plans being made. Governments. We see the real plans being done in a government contract, which were framed into financial policy development, the implementation of sectoral goals, income costs, and the development to the next year. Of course, it is always important to consider this in this context; the context of covenant, policy, and plan. In fact, the policy process is framed into the public financial law. There's an extra charge here. It's been reported. Emerging the infrastructure is being developed as laid up. For example, consider a table on page 24. 5 Where the price of 2018 is very clear, except for the increase between 2018 and 2019, an increase in health care rates. There is a significant contribution to health care and the raising of funds into the construction of a national hospital, promoting mental health care, health care, and financial resources in order to reduce the patient's payment. There is an overall increase in the total of four topics seen in this table and a significant increase in the absolute value. Different kinds of topics, but range between 10 and 15 or 16%. The communication and communication have been in the dough and, as we have seen, the huge total need in all parts of the country. Here we need effort, and we are putting in a lot of money, but at the same time it is recognized that it can be better if necessary. This suggests that 16.5 billion will be spent on an urgent project over the next three years, but it is fully recognized that much more is needed if we look at all the cumulative needs of investments. In order to build up social stability, social, housing and insurance spending is increasing that the real value is 14% over the period and the period goes into educational and cultural development by about 500 billion collections and as it was seeing an increase in the number of years in the last budget. Of course, here we could count for a long time, and I'm like many others in my time on the same scale. But up to once in this strategy, there is an effort to ensure continued economic stability as well as increased investments in social infrastructure and increased services. This is guaranteed by bringing positive results all through the years and continuing in the process of paying off debts. It is the course that has ensued that has created this high standard of state funds that enables us to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u69	Madam President. Hv. In its extensive, careful speech, a senator was in many places. I am fully aware that when a man joins in a government community, there is a need for compromise. Of course, that is true in this government as well as in others. Hv. A senator made health issues, along with other specific topics. For this reason, I would like to ask him about the proposed construction of the Land Hospital on the Circle Road. I think it's a matter that has a particular turn towards a wave. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson son of Thor, who in the ensuing election, at least strongly indicated that he could think of other solutions to the hospital's facilities than to continue building on the Circle Way. So it was to form a representative of his group who gave this very strong evidence at a mass - flung meeting of a better settlement held in the Norwegian house in the contingency of the election. However, there is now the need for objective discussion on this subject based on factors such as building, access routes, traffic vessels, costs of building in these tights, as compared to building far less expensive places. At the same time, the cost of connected with existing buildings is enormous, some of which are maligned by moisture and mold. With this objective discussion, only the answer is that those who maintain such criticism are delaying this project by about 10 to 15 years. But I'd like to ask what. The senator's ability to protect these projects will continue to demonstrate the harsh and inflexible nature of the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ísleifsson His questions concern the location of land hospital and local selection. That's been under discussion for a long time. conducted here for a special discussion earlier in this council. The question is, How can I justify it? You've taken approximately 20 years to reach this conclusion, at least three times, the results of such analyses have become that it would be best to continue building on the Circle Course. Hv. A senator named here construction and traffic. All of this, of course, applies to us, but also to the existing buildings. The result has always been that together and also here, both in professionals and in the political arena, i.e. ... togo on these planned projects...... we'reontheRollway. In 2015, I think the General Assembly agreed to a resolution proposal that these projects should be completed, and all were on that proposal. My whole outfit was on that proposal. We promised, and that promise is what we want to keep. That really doesn't extend any further. However, I don't think that's all we have to talk about, and I don't think there's any way we have to build a hospital other than this one. And because technology speeds up, we may build a different hospital for other needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u71	Thank you. Of course, the answer is made by a senator, and I realize that once men have buried themselves so deep, it can be very difficult to pull their way out of those tire tracks. There is another matter that I would like to address. A senator because yesterday, outside the Ministry of Health for Mental Health, Mental Health, and Mental Health that has worked together in the City Study, was protested and contributed to the improvement of many people. I am very depressed to see the way things are being done with the mind - set and mental - health team. The people and the guardians who have done much, and who have yielded, excellent results. So I'll let myself ask you what. A senator, of course, who is a prominent member of his class: What can he say to these parties about whether or not his party will stress the protection of these activities from the apparent setbacks?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question to the courage that has worked well in this regard and has helped many who have had to seek help. This has been the subject of the discussion. In general, we have developed a culture in Icelandic society that involves volunteers, self-employed institutions, and a passion for the items needed, and in voluntary work. There you will find yourself doing a very good job, and it will be late appreciated for your money. Mindpower is one of those institutions. Then we have to go through the situation with the highest level of mental health. Minister has announced.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u73	A respectable president. I'd like to make a comment to wording at what. A senator approved by the General when he was referring to financialism. I say no, it was the government groups that agreed to this. What was approved at the General Assembly may have been more specific, but the Council did not approve of financial policy. Actually, it's the government groups themselves that set up this program and accept it themselves. There was nothing that the government could do about it. At least, then, the questions. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir did well in his speech earlier as to what VG entered this financial program, and then I'd like to ask. What are the fingerprints of the advance in this financial program? How did each group get a great deal of involvement in the budget for various projects? So other things that I also talked about when I was still talking to each other. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. The budget simply seems to be raising expenses while reducing income. True, the income we already have is increasing, and the income is actually devoted to new projects, but income companies are being reduced at the same time. That's how I wanted to go over it with what. In fact, a senator of any kind is raising expenses in another way and actually weakening the side of income.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví the son of Gunnarsson. I feel that in the speech about the first question and the wording, I have said that the policy or the interpretation that involved this policy would have been adopted at the General Assembly, but let it be. Fingerprint advance, put it hard. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, the question. I'm just going to say that I really enjoy this financial program in many ways when it comes to my favorite candidate. The media is a socialistic party, and there are so many things in this national budget and in a government contract that I really like. Of course, it is a covenant of three categories. If we look at the program we are considering, there is an enormous increase in health care issues and education issues being added. We ran all over here with the message that we wanted to do more and bring the good to the public in that group of languages, and that's what they're doing. So the socialist inside of me, he celebrates. And the forwarding party is pleased with this national budget and the covenant that these three groups met together for. With the businesses, I'm going to have a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u75	A respectable president. There's one more question. How much did each class get to care for such quality projects here and there, or a good project, not necessarily a pet project, for example. Health systems, etc.? I still reiterate the spending question, so I don't see adding this minute, that financial programmes assume higher expenditures, obviously, but at the same time to weaken or lower income populations by reducing e.g. below the income tax level. I repeat, what kind of economy is that? How does it really work out when, in view of all our economic forecasts, we are on the way down to our advantage, and we have been warned that the support we receive from a government fund is just weak when growth begins?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A very good question was given to the Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson. When we talk about how much each group got, we know why. Of course, a senator would have no intention of putting it out in any amount of money, not unless we could go to the Ministers and play something to make an earmark of each ministerial servant's status. But all I can say is that it's a big cooperation project, there's nothing different. The media once had an excellent slogan; work, growth, well - being. The road is based on a strong business life, and we are actually moving some of the good stuff to the public. I always celebrate when we're on the move to turn down curses on the public and the business as we're doing. In fact, in a very modest way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u77	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I know that as chairman of the budget board, he is concerned about the terms of government and that such matters are well handled. When discussing the government's financial policy, he and the other members of the budget committee were under some clear warning from a number of important sources, such as financial advisers themselves, various commercial interest groups, such as business agencies, employment organizations, and other organizations, who criticized all of them in the same way that the economic candidates here were put in the best position of optimism and would be very vulnerable to such circumstances that the extra expenses in this financial program were as much as they actually bear witness. By then, we were not seeing the magnitude of the expansion. As we have seen, there is a 260 billion increase in the number of years, a 36% increase in the rate of budgeting. I didn't even think people would do that. In view of this, it was said that caution needs to be considered, that in such circumstances it would be normal to be careful, not to get ahead of yourself, and to give them good money while economic presidents were as vague as they can be. That's why I must ask you why. Senator: Has he, despite all these warnings, believed that the economic leaders of this financial program are going on?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Þorsteinn Víglundsson big question, if all of this is going to work out. This document is being faced with the fact that we certainly only have available predictions to look into. I believe they can walk along, but a lot has to be done. Hv. A senator here listed a warning from stakeholders and, certainly, stakeholders associated with the labour market, although not alone, on how they manage in collective agreements. It's one of the big challenges, whether these predictions are going to work, and it's gonna get smooth. It's not for us a favor, as it is for the rest of us. A senator has often pointed out, but one of its reasons is found in the text on page 24. 41 dealing with financial regulations and values, says the President's permission: With their debts, the last three governments have added weight to the scales to reduce the debt of the government considerably in financial matters under public financial laws. This is part of our ability to succeed. There is room to increase expenses and there is at least ............................................................................... A senator belonged to one of those governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u79	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is important to pause when spokesmen of the stakeholders who may have their finger in their pulses in this respect, for in the end, this wealth generation comes from a professional level, warning us so strongly. There is another question about those baselines. There are four values I'd like to stop at, the first firm I think I don't have to ask him why. A senator out there, it's obvious that when we're raising the state budget by 36%, we don't have any place in financial matters. So careful, because it is clear that when there is a warning about the economic leaders of this strategy, we must be careful and not increase the cost as much as we really do, we may have more effort than we do here, and there are self-sustaining and stability. [[The president calls.]] It would be interesting to hear a point of view. A senator's opinion on how he feels about this financial policy is at baseline a law on public financial matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question and such questions about predictions and values. First, I'd like to say that the public financial image is developing in this conversation and in the production of financial policy and financial programs, in which we are discussing it and the important values presented in the law on public finances. I referred to text in the State Budget Program. However, the tip of the financial Council of this material has led to a better chapter facing these values. Because we were discussing whether the predictions could work out, though, we are beginning to make the most careful forecast. Some predict more economic growth, even though there is little. I don't think I can just go through all these values at this time, though I'd like to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u81	Madam President. This is one of the biggest cases that I could face in the past day. We are working on the budget for the next five years, and this is done on the basis of a new budget for this work all of which is, of course, the laws on public finances from 2015. Our work may be characterized by two factors, one of the unique conditions in the nation's political lives, has had to go through this process at a time, and one another may still be in a learning process in the shape of this work in specific aspects. I won't go into technical aspects of that subject, but my partners on a financial committee know what's going on in this regard. What I would like to say about this financial program is, of course, much of it can be said. In many ways, it is a well - chosen document, and it contains positive things. I especially want to be able to deal with the aims of a decrease in debt during the period, of course, and, of course, to strengthen the state of the nation. There are some factors that might be cited. I'll just say one thing. Because I think the English language is important, I am glad that in the past, plans not to complete the work of building the Icelandic language, and I allow me to expect the benefit of this project and that a house will help us achieve this important task in the past, perhaps not only further the Icelandic language, but also simply to save it, as some have thought it would be right to say. Then, of course, I refer to an important meeting for an election held at the Hall of the Nautilus, which included the Writing Committee and other parties. According to this, one must take the political course marked by this proposal. The issues that have been given very high in our time, to form the election process, are that there is this group of people in the country who have been or have been placed on the line, Madam President. Maybe you could call it forgotten people. The other big issue is the urgent necessity of a massive infrastructure campaign. There are, of course, many other good things to do, but I want to do these matters, especially the first, to discuss in this talk. The present government is that for now it seems a second time to miss out on precious opportunities. The budget was first handled in December. when she felt that she could raise reformers only about 4.7%, on an extraterrestrial figure, was not supported by any reasonable criteria, had no connection with the development of dressers in the country, and those people were left behind in this way. Now, we see that the government has a second time period of opportunity to show that she wants to stand with them. Of course, I'm talking about certain groups of elderly people, I'm talking about disability, reformers, I'm talking about individuals and families, low income children's families. Then the government's policy was published by reducing the lower level of income tax by 1%. Of course, it is always positive when taxes can be lowered, but this action is not very specific or targeted. There, the government loses out on the apparent scope it has to relax on tax issues and to use it in behalf of those who are in the palace's way. Of course, it is recognized by all, including the government, that the most effective way to do so is through the personality discount, so that it becomes progressively decreasing, that it is especially useful to those with the lowest income. In fact, I would like to use this opportunity, and I would like to know that before the General, there is an understanding of this subject presented by my members, the Stockholm of the people, and two members of the Central Party. So, at least in such a way, if we speak specifically of despair, from the poverty trap they have completed, and from the fact that this poverty trap is a human being, and that it is designed in a creative way to improve the quality of the situation, a person who has found himself in those circumstances, namely, a person who has found himself in that situation. If he allows himself to try to improve his own interests, if he does otherwise, with more work, let him take it away, every dollar under the motto, a dollar for a dollar, a dollar that is so called a dollar. There is evidence left to these people every dollar, the lowest one is $1, and no money is so low that it is not listed in this man - made system that is nothing but a poverty trap. The government does not believe that the means to remove these things and allow the people to be truly nice, if she wanted to be so good, that they can, in the power of self-saturation, improve their own interests without being impaired in the back and through the improvement system. The other is so different that the government shows in the financial program that it has princeliness, it has generosity. And where does it appear? This is reflected in plans to reduce the rate of individual taxes in financial institutions. This tax should not be reduced by 10%, 20, 30, 40, 50%, no, it should be reduced by more than 60%. So those who stand on the financial side of life, there's no difference in extending the 60% tax reduction we're given in a broad website to reduce the income of the state's budget to less than 6 billion. So the attitude toward those who are in front of their feet is that each dollar is numbered, but to those who have the greatest means of wisdom to control that they are noble, they are heady, and they are not forgotten; they are not forgotten; they do not sit aside. At the very least, they are clearly approved. Madam President. This is the core point of this government's policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u82	A respectable president. I'm here on this very important debate over the budget of the D.O.S. Independence Party, Left Green and Progress, describing the secretary of finance here in the hall. In the first century C.E., there was a tradition that the then minister of finance, the minister of restoration, Benedikt Jóhannesson, attended the discussion of his own will, but there was clear evidence that he was greatly missed from the hall if he withdrew. The government opposers then made it clear that the discussion was completely meaningless, useless, unnecessary, and impossible unless a minister was in the hall. I agree, and I request a minister of finance to come in the hall, please ask a president to call for a financial minister in the hall. I think it's kind of appropriate that we have a recess until he's found.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u83	A respectable president. I agree with the words of the first speaker. I've seen financial and economic ministers in a crisis around here, he was down there somewhere, and he should be somewhere in the neighborhood, but he doesn't participate in the discussion or listen to what the senators are saying. It might be repeated to the tradition that arose during the last terms in which ministers were very diligent, some of them who, certainly, were at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers, to challenge the government's administration of financial, financial and financial policies. I call them again after they operate again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u84	A respectable president. I agree with your request. The members of Congress that the secretary of finance enters the hall and participate in the discussion, especially with other discussions we have about the presence of Ministers on this occasion that we may be better involved in afterwards. I can inform the U.S. Congress of the highest. The secretary of finance is in the house, is more specific on the lower level in the bowl and should, of course, be here and participate in the discussion, as I especially say on the basis of other discussions that we may discuss better - or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u85	The president wants to state that messages have been reached the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u86	Madam President. I don't lie to the highest level. Secretary of finance not wanting to sit under the criticism of government opposition. It certainly would be better to see that this was the case and would be respected in the conference's discussion of this important government policy that a minister would be present. It is interesting to discuss financial policy, for it presents a very clear focus on each government, both political and economic policies or the government's contribution to economic management. It's all very interesting to see these political emphasis on policy. This is where historical peace has been achieved between those who have been able to speak for financial security, to set up expenses, and to keep taxes to a minimum, as well as those who speak for high government pay and expenses, but to this have recognized the need to provide financial support in a more sustainable manner than any other tax level. Now, these ancient enemies have found a magic solution to this historic conflict that causes both at the same time, to increase in unprecedented ways the government spending, but to reduce taxes at the same time. The Independence Party has thus agreed to pay the left categories, but the VG has adopted the right category tax policy. It is interesting, and it will be of particular interest to note whether these historical reconciliations will remain when the valley is under severe stress. This compromise is at the expense of responsibility. It is clear that the classes of this government have revealed their complete irresponsibility in the government of government. I'm not going to go to much of the political importance of this GDP program in terms of the individual topic areas, as it is emphasised that it can be said to be virtually unchanged from the last government, both in terms of the relative exchange and the primary objective of the topic areas. But there are certainly some improvements from that schedule. However, I aim to focus primarily on whether the basis for this strategy can be considered realistic, whether it can be fulfilled, and whether that is the basis for the promises made in the long term. Economic development in recent years has been extremely practical, including Because of a large rise in tourism and a small increase in domestic purchases. The development of most economists has been traditional in view of this trend in the fluctuating Icelandic economy. Now, however, there is a number of evidence that the climax of the economy has already been reached and that the rate of cooling off in the economy is cooling off, and actually quite fast. The number of tourists has been considerably reduced. Their average residence time has not changed, and the average waste of a tourist has similarly declined. Little or no growth has been observed in other exports since 2014. We are again one of the most expensive countries in the world, although national production is comparable to that of the European Union on average. As economic debt has increased, economic growth has recently continued with a more intensive private intake, the debt of Icelandic households is beginning to increase and realize that further growth of private consumption will be induced in a sustainable way. There may be other practical men with whom we better associate in these areas. It is most expensive in Reykjavík, except for Oslo. This is always a good measure of national prices. In a way, it's our Icelanders' hamburger science. It's always a warning or a warning signal when we're as expensive as we really are. It's the number of Icelanders on a trip this year. In fact, we see an increase in the number of missions in Chefjordur Airports of this recent year as it appears to be driven primarily by a huge increase in Iceland's travel. It is, in fact, according to the latest pre - Marche statistics, that it could even be a contraction in the arrival of foreign tourists. The number of construction benches in the capital area has not been larger for a decade or so, in fact, a number of other familiar records are beginning to fall in 2006-2008. All of this is a mark of the same, we're on either the top swing or we've already looked at the top of it. The budget of the new government is based on a highly optimistic economy in which all these signs are taken into account. In fact, the plan is based on fantasy or wishful thinking by the government rather than on responsible government. After eight years of continuous economic growth, the economy is becoming fairly cold. There is no great threat, but in these circumstances it is extremely important to adjust the plans for the State to be taken into consideration, both income and payors. As history teaches us, this may very easily change to worse. I'm not the only one who feels that way. The same warnings are found in the reviews of financial councils, the Association of Professional Life, the Industrial Business Council, and the Organization for the Government's Financial Policy here in the first winter. That warning statement was also given in a discussion of the financial policy of the last government. That's what I said. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, then a member of a smaller section, in the latter. on the budget of the first government of May 23, with the permission of the President: Since late 2010, economic growth has already become the longest in the Republic's history, and it is not safe to assume that it continues uninterrupted until 2022. The plan, however, depends on that it will. [...] As soon as any setback occurs, the foundation of the plan is broken. I agree with this estimate. Prime Minister. V.E.G. Secretary of finance, then prime minister, said in discussions about financial policies of the last government that if something was anything, this financial policy could not be sufficiently conservative under the circumstances. At that time, the government's financial programme was much more careful about spending money, but it was as much the rest of the government budget as it is now. Since then, predictions for economic growth have been repeatedly revised, as well as considerably less economic growth in the past year than expected. Nevertheless, in these circumstances the government has decided to increase significantly in expenses, slow down debt, and substantially reduce the rest of the budget. In this context, it is necessary to look to the simple fact that both income and budget are very sensitive to the economy without any new political decisions. Thus, money can be greatly added when economic growth is slowed down as a result of reduced private consumption, less investments, and less profits in an enterprise, and, for example, significant increases in financial expenses may be due to increasing unemployment, increased expenditures in support of low income costs. However, in this context it should be kept in mind that although there is no reason to fear the rapid landing in the economy in these circumstances, it is still the smoothest landing of the economy to this point that can be found in 20013/42003. If it is slided over to a government fund now, it would be more likely to be replaced by a collection of stocks of 143 billion dollars. which is expected in this financial program, we would see a total of 100 billion dollars. This would be the result of the softest landing we've ever had since the economic rise we've seen here. Other landings have been significantly more severe and have led to a much greater and more sustained exchange of state funds. There are many questions to consider in connection with this financial program. There is one thing missing completely in the focus of this government. There are some standards of success. Success is not measured in expenses. It is not a goal for them to increase their government spending, that is, to improve their service to the citizens of the country, health systems, education systems, and welfare systems. There are not many significant criteria for the success of the expansion shown here. Nor is there any emphasis on government management or efficiency, and it is actually interesting to look forward to the development of the government of an independent party and the promotion at the start of that government community service that was just an enormous effort on the part of these categories that a much better success could be achieved in the state of business and the establishment of a special financial group. However, there is little evidence of this group's design in this financial program. The increase in expenses seems to be the primary objective of this strategy. I have already answered that the plan does not measure up at any point in the baseline laws on public finances, especially on stalwartness, sustainability, caution and stability. There is no need to put many words into it, it is obvious when such an expansion is so evident that these values are passed on. In fact, this financial plan does not have a sign of caution or responsibility. It is rather a fine sign that the party is about to end, that after the party is started, the delirium, which is often followed by it. It is disturbing as we look at the basis for the work we practice here, the basis for public financial law was the very experience of government funds in the past. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That lesson is to be ignored in this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u87	A respectable president. Some things. I would like to first mention, of course, that financial policies are carefully preemptive. The report reviews the extent of the problem of predicting zero commutations by one percent, 0.1% of national production by five years in the period of recovery or debt development. In this context, I mentioned it when I introduced financialism that we might consider looking at some gaps, especially during the second part of financial policy. Other than that, I don't like it. A senator is here making considerable criticism of the economic forecasts, the economic forecasting in Iceland, because we are in ourselves not doing anything else in this strategy than using the economic forecasts available to help in the timetable. This is not political policy in making practical decisions. In addition, people may feel that there should be no trust or confidence in the economics of the Habitat or the Secret Bank or the World Bank and that they should put up with some very careful plan. But we are in itself doing nothing but based on current economic predictions. I like it. A senator is really not bringing up criticism of the policy we are discussing here but more on a project in Iceland. Then it's the one with the prior landing, the previous change. It is, of course, difficult to reflect such things from the past into our day. I just point out that, of course, there's a whole different economy we have today, but we're talking about in the years after 2000. It's simply a whole different economy, it's stronger. There are other continuum transfunctioners. There are more people who work in energy - efficient industry. There is, of course, another example of travel, and there is more valuable information in the fishing field. In terms of the values that the law on public finances refers to, I would like to mention in particular the great debt that is expected to take place during the period to show that the values of the law are indeed being maintained. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u88	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. That's right. I'm certainly critical of the predictions presented here, such as others have, in fact, pointed out that the models produced here are not designed for the sake of government interest, but much more to the fundamental money policy of the expressed bank at any given time. These are more and less like the same model foretold from now on, and it's good to keep that in mind. They did not expect the smooth landing that I referred to in 2001◯2003, but on the contrary, they did not expect to bring about the continued growth of interest. On the contrary, they did not expect hard landings in 2008-2010. On the contrary, they did become a fairly soft landing, which eventually proved to be a crash. Therefore, it is important to keep in mind the words of a financial Council when it is referred to the importance of caution in these circumstances and not to assume that these predictions are going on, for the first time in Icelandic history, such predicting that we would eventually be in a continuous growth of 13 in the course of 13 to 14 years. It's never happened. We know that the economy is much more swinging than that. In fact, there is nothing in today's foundation leaders that indicates that we are in exactly the same economy as we have been when we look to realism, for survival, for survival, and now our last increase in personal consumption. In fact, we're shifting from cost - consuming growth, which has been over a while ago, to personal consumption - taking economic growth. Then we don't know when, that time will be reduced to the end of the swing. It is simply not expected in some way in this program. That's why I think we have to learn a lesson from our previous landings. We must take special care and run a government fund with handsome pursuits in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u89	A respectable president. What I'm hearing is why. A senator here says that either we shouldn't lower the taxes or we should be much more careful on the charge side. Of course, it would be good to know whether there is health, road, education, or social matters, where to hold back much more because it matters. Then I'd like to put things in context too. Let us put things in context only when criticism is being made that we have merely reduced Kingdom goals. Let us say that the disagreement lies about half a percent of the world's produce. Let's do it. That would be, what, 12, 14 billion, somewhere between 101⁄215 billion each year that we should have more food each year. But do people really believe in this discussion that when the economy is so complex that no one can claim a thing about when the last billion people change everything in the balances? The fact is, in this context, that there are 1,915 billion in 2,500 billion economy. What is the total total number of over 600 billion in debt that we have just made? 600 billion in debt. Or the huge amount of money that has been made, not just because of a higher salary in this country, but because we have just increased the value of the steady-state production by more than 70 billion since the beginning of 2016? I'm going to argue that it's being made up of gnats when men are working on about half a percent, 0.3%, 0.4% of their domestic product, that it is missing in the total delivery of the state, when such injections can take place by one, two approved at financial hearings to start one of the major projects, loan here or there into the economy, such as the amount of money that can have comparable effects. [[The president calls.]] If we were raising debt, I'd worry about it. But we're paying off debts. [[The president calls.]] So I don't think it's convincing criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u90	Madam President. You're absolutely right by the Topv. A minister may well feel that these growths, as we talk about in the survival of a government fund, did not eventually take root in their speech. It reflects a certain lack of faith in the fact that the government's affairs have some role in economic management. It may well be that we could just go to that school, i.e. that the government's business should not be trying to control the economy, we're not supposed to be in some French economics to increase government spending in recesses, and we're not supposed to think we're up in time. But that may be what's being done here. They're spending the amount of space that would be possible for the increase in the total economy in contractions, as it's quite clear that the income stocks yield considerably when the economy yields. Nor should we forget. We know the share of credit, income taxpayers, income taxes of the households at the pay raise of the state funds. All of this becomes sudden when the economy cools off. Of course, this means that the income of the state's funds will be seriously lost and the financial resources will not control them with the promised expenses. Maybe that's the basic problem. If we're going to run the state funds so that he's neutral in the economy, that it's not trying to stimulate or duse the economy with the government, but only to keep them stable, we also need to keep them steady so that it's sustainable, so it's persistent, even if it's insignificant, the rest of the state's affairs, whether it's in the uplifting or down. It's not happening here. It's quite clear that if even the stage photos of the softest landing we've ever experienced so far are going to follow in the next few years, we're not going to pay off debts, we're going to increase them. We'll raise the debt of state funds by 50, 100, 150 billion easily. So this is not a place to live for the down cycle. On the contrary, it is being spent at the height of the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u91	A respectable president. We've been talking here today about the General Assembly arrangement for a financial programme until the next five years. I can have a measure of respect for the views that the government's put tore up here. I don't think we can overlook certain aspects of her criticism of various matters. The economic and economic situation of the land is a key factor in the survival of all of us who build this magnificent land, and in a few years the economy has taken a big change, it can even be compared to the economic roller coasts that are not particularly desirable. More stability now and stability should be our goal, and that is why the government budget looks like this, more stable, and fixed. Only then will we be protected from the great success we have achieved in recent years that we can build up our plans for the future so that they can endure. We used to argue with the whims of nature at any given time, but it's still our own decision in this room that is the most important factor in how this fundamental component of our community, economic and government, comes about to land on the homes and businesses and how we're going to play from the cards we have at any given time. A recent report on the practicalities we support in this program will help me to be critical of this financial program discussed here, to be critical of the predictions, and to the models. We do not hear much criticism of the emphasis this government budget puts out. It is not harsh criticism of various aspects of the Bible, although I myself could definitely join a group in that and other matters, but we hear here primarily criticism of the models and predictions. Of course, I'm not here to tell you whether the forecasts are very accurate, and when we look ahead to the length of the five-year plan, there will definitely be a variation in the future. Yet, we have no better tools to support ourselves, and the practicalities we agree with here tell us that the economic situation is generally good and even beyond hope, as the report of a financial conference that we discussed a few days ago. On the contrary, tension in the economy has slowed down, and some tensions are shrinking. It is very important to be able to land this excited economy of ours quietly and free of concrete. It's our race. It's our goal. Nothing is as dangerous to Icelandic homes as businesses and demolitions and economic ruin. In this country, inflation has for a long time been below targets, and the main fruits of the Sensitian Bank have decreased by 0.75%. A discussion about their interest and cost is natural, but it is usually forgotten to put growth in the context that they are generally a measure of the economic situation at a time. Thus, there is evidence that our neighboring countries are growing again because of the growth in the economy. Six that are 0% describe exactly the standard economy. But we may forget to mention in all this discussion also that the growth of Kingdom Halls is at a historic minimum, and real interest on long - term loans has rarely or never been lower. Today, growth is reduced in exporting and has only slowed down in the tremendous growth of tourism. Whether we appreciate it good or bad, at least it would not have been good to get new tax payments at this time in the traveling work, according to the circumstances we now have. Indeed, we have been blessed with a great catch in the rapid growth that the tourism has gone through, as well as with a favorable international business deal. It's all part of what's been going on with us in recent years. All of this has been about the influence of foreign lands, so we have primarily to say how we walk at home. I don't think it's clear that the government budget we've been discussing here and we've proposed a discussion would reflect that we're going to take it seriously. A respectable president. I make these aspects of our external circumstances a subject here because I think that the financial agenda we discuss must be considered in view of the fact that there has become an enormous increase in money, the economy has grown rapidly and very much, and therefore it is to be examined in the financial expansion of the budget, in view of the fact that it is of much greater value to play, and it certainly is to be seen in this financial program. I used to say it during the last term when we were coming out of a decade of building in so many areas, the headquarters of being able to resume our community. It was also announced during the campaign. A fall and a political treaty for the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, informs us of this. It is reflected in this national budget. Not much of a surprise should come. I don't want to be in the specifics of various budget classes or how much extra expenses are being done, and I'll take it for granted. The last speaker said that our standards should be, not about how much we are raising expenses, but about how we spend it. It is mainly a task that the Parliament must put his attention to the development of financial and financial development process, i.e. how we spend this money, what goals we will reach, and which meter we will use to measure it. A respectable president. Toward the end of that brief talk in the first verse. I would like to mention a pleasant event that took place this morning when the secretary of the International Communications Association handed over the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers recognized the Union for the fact that Iceland is in the highest order of communication. Why do I pull this up here? Because the standard behind that prize is one of 11 categories. It is widely distributed and measures many factors, not just the nation's technicality, but, for example, the field. the average school program in years, the proportion of high school students and how long people have studied, the means of access to computers and nets, it actually measures various aspects of our community that we generally consider as strengths or as desirable factors. That's how we get this award. For example, we may be able to look at scales and scales just as we discuss financial plans for the next five years, what our community has strength, and what good things are in our society. We should be much more busy talking about it, but we may not be able to speak as if in the morning we would not want to talk because the forecasts could be crazy and hardly afraid to trust them. We don't have any better standards than we're going to put here, but I'm gonna mention this, Mr. Honorable President, because I think it's important that we take note of what's done well. Because I mentioned communication, I will allow myself at the end of the talk to say that, as foretold in the campaign and government contracts of the state of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, transportation and communication issues among the subjects that were truly to be stressed. So we are going to defend the seat we have achieved in the list of the international telecommunications among 170 nations, and we are going to continue building in that subject because the communications and effectiveness of these are the basis for our ability to activate the fourth industrial revolution. The fourth industrial revolution and all that we have built on it give evidence of how we will take hold of the future and will create the economy and the value we need for longer periods of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u92	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson points out that only a model was found to be critical. I object to it, and I refer to my first answer. These models have been warned that they are not too well and too uniform. There's been a word of caution about economic growth and that economic conditions are dangerous from those who work on the floor there. There's been a caution from a financial body that the foundations of a government fund are sensitive to the economy; now we're going down to the advantage, according to all the work being done here. There's a dress fight coming up, that's what it's gonna do. The reactions are increased expenses, and income stocks are weakened. It is critical of this financial program. If there is a recession, gang drop, inflation during the period, there is no blame for the pay raise and the struggle that will be over the next. It's the economy that matters. To raise expenses and reduce income at the same time, in the economic state we are in, simply cannot resist. Such economic control must be reprehensible. I haven't heard a member of the council I've asked about it object to my claim. To raise expenses and reduce income at the same time is not a good economy. I'd love to have some. A senator, a former chairman of a legal committee, explained to me how I am wrong with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u93	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I just disagree completely with him. I think I can be. In my speech, I traced first to the fact that we keep how we're going to land. I was tracking it here as to what the Secret Bank Department's money policy committee was doing in her report, published a few weeks ago, on which it discussed these advantages. It's on the practicals and projections we're building this budget for a long time. We do, and there's no voodoos behind it. I also object that we're weakening the income base. On the contrary, we have, because we have created conditions here for economic efficiency, greatly increasing the income of the State. For example, I cannot agree that in some way it is subsidizing a government fund when we have, for example, in a short time, the income of an individual's income tax is increased by 40%. When can it be said that we weaken income companies when this is the witness?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u94	A respectable president. You may disagree, but that does not necessarily mean that you are right. In fact, financial advisers simply said that the income institutions that are mostly the sink, the income tax from individuals and companies, and the insurance bill, are weak for the economy. When it goes down, these income stocks fall very much and these farms are being weakened by reducing the income tax. This adds to the decline in income that otherwise keeps changing. What I'm saying is, the response to these practicalities, these economic forecasts that the economy is getting cold, they are raising expenses, and they are reducing their income. Lowering taxes - they may be trying to use a specific injection for the benefit of the system. This could be explained in this way, but economic growth is still expected. So it's about to lower taxes in interest that I've at least not heard of experts' advice that if what is to be done is to follow this swing correction that is generally expected in the models we're applying to the economic sector. I simply ask again: " How am I wrong when I say that financial programs increase expenses and weaken income companies? Am I wrong? And if I'm wrong, how?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u95	A respectable president. I hear what you're doing. A senator is here. We began discussing financial policies not long ago, which included the relaxation of the Kingdom Fund. For what? Because we see a down on the economy. I traced it in my speech, if you don't mind. I simply said that the tensions in our economy had been slacked, and the tension signs were shrinking. Is it not wise, then? A senator, that we turn off the tax package and increase the government spending to do that? It's the main text that's in this financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u96	Madam President. The political agenda on the economic and tax issues is more often than not characteristic of the classes. A policy may be taken to locate political parties on the political propaganda. We in the United States want income tax to be step divided, thus having a dual role in being a stock for the state's funds and contributing to the balance of income. We'd like to revise the gaps between tax steps, increase tax levels, and ensure a fair contribution from more income-rich groups and major people to the community through the tax system. We'd like to increase the value of the transfer systems of children and housing improvements that, plus the character discount, are the most important commodities of the public. We want health care to be free, and on the way to that end, there will be no payment from the users of the welfare services to prevent discrimination and the use of the ministry. The payment is much higher in Iceland than in our neighboring countries, and it is a form of taxation that increases inindulge and weakens society's strength and general prosperity. We in the Union want to set aside income and fees that the state collects due to limited natural resources and resources at national prices, including By hunting fees and revenues of energy resources, and that resourceentan will be made visible to the public. Sadly, the tax policy of the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is far from the way we equal people want to go. The Kingdom's main equations have been weakened in the past few years, and according to the budget we now address, we should continue on that course. V.E.G. In a talk at the World Bank's main meeting of days, the prime minister said by permission of a president: However, it is understandable that states of the unions of the labor movement, which are also the majority of voters, will suffer from the development of welfare and housing systems that do not meet the high expectations of the modern man. Workers are and are to be active democracies, where a course that leads to the future will lead to the greatest prosperity for members. What's at the top? Is this the case with the prime minister? Ideally, they should address these important issues with the government, i.e. that unions should deal with governments, not with one another. V.E.G. The prime minister must know as well as all of us that unions have produced specific suggestions for housing, and the United States has adopted them through a Senate case on the construction of 5,000 apartments through the general apartment system. There's a matter of Congress waiting on the welfare committee. If the government wants to accept ASI's lawsuit, it's easy for them to accept the Senate or make its subject their own. In addition, unions and labor unions have increased their demand for better housing support and for more people to receive interest benefits and to receive payment from their children through the child relief system. V.E.G. Government, under the direction of the left green, wants a conversation about a reimbursement of the tax system and reporting a conversation on the interaction of income taxes and reform systems. Where do the leaders have the highest authority? Governments have been in the last few years? Does it not know what this land is like in these areas? The housing system's a mess. But in the financial program at the top. Governments are further cut down on housing after major cuts last year and in recent years. If the highest. The prime minister understands dissatisfaction with this, so why is nothing done in the housing areas that really burn on so many people in the country? On the contrary, the financial program shows that these systems are to be weakened. Fewer and fewer families enjoy child rearing here. Since 2013, the number of families has decreased by over 12 thousand. In the north and in many parts of Europe, there has been a great deal of agreement on the value of support for family members, but in this country it has continued to reduce its impact. It appears that this policy is to continue in the government under the leadership of the left greens, which suggest that by 2018, child reforms will begin to go far below the minimum wage. In fact, as the case of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir promotes more poverty among working people, much child damage is immediately reduced by low incomes. A couple both who have paid jobs but whose jobs are low get small child benefits here. This is one reason why poverty among children is greater than that of childless families. That's a known fact. The only thing to wait is for governments to take over as effective as they can be. Prime Minister continues in his speech at a meeting of the Federal Bank, saying, by permission of the president: ▪ It is healthy and positive to deal with a course of action, and it is important to consider how we can make the most of our peace in the community, such as how we can secure the equation needed to secure this reconciliation. How much money are we supposed to pay? And where does the rough spring spring from? Is it from the wages of people or from different property positions, as has been identified as a real source in most parts of the world? And how will we best deal with unevenness? Madam President. I have news for the highest. Prime Minister and the greater part of the government. They're in the highest response. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs for the Question of Logi Einarsson, chairman of the United Nations, which is located on the Generalist web and the Nautilus is being dealt with in a clear way. About 218 families making up the richest 0.1% of the population had 201.3 billion. in clean property at the end of 2016. The group increased its clean holdings by 14 billion dollars. in that year. That means, if that number evenly spread, that each candidate would have increased his clean property by 67 million. K. in 2016 or about 5.6 billion. K. per month. This is the case with the members of the committee. Thus, contaminants and individuals may be involved. In fact, this group has a total of eight times as many dollars as possible, regardless of inflation in less than two decades. The entire population's money grew by 394 billion dollars. in 2016. That means that the richest 5% of the population took over 35.3% of all the new money that came into existence that year. The nation's richest tithe took to heart nearly half of the pure possessions that came into existence that year. There is no doubt that the top layer will take on far more of the new wealth than any other social law. The answer to the highest question. Prime Minister on the source of the inequities. These are facts, and there is no reason to make such a special conversation with the labor movement. What matters is what the government will do to address these inequities other than talk about the situation and then enforce the social policy of the Independence Party, for that is the policy offered in the financial programme. The financial agenda has proved to be a great disappointment to union unions. VR points out in its review that the budget was followed in reverse terms with the fact that all society would benefit from existing economic growth and social stability and quality of life would be assured for the future. On the contrary, nothing is taken at the most serious knot that has come up in every business venture in the Icelandic labour market. Commenting on the VR, the President's permission states: Although there are positive points in the program, there are far greater points and thus will be no different from gross irresponsibility on the part of the government. For example, there is the emergency in the land's housing and the urgent need for improvement in child care and housing. The government is to send a clear message, Mrs. President, on how to improve the interests of children, young families in Iceland, and those who have at least one partner by supporting the housing system, housing and interest benefits, child support, and improvement in the personality. The budget is called to lower the tax level by one percentage and stated that it reduces the income of the state's budget by $14 billion. These changes work best for the highest income. The people at the lowest salary get 3,000 bucks. growing as long as they'll get 9,000 bucks from the highest salary. If a personal discount is increased by 1,000 k. It costs 2.7 billion for a government fund. Here's an idea for the highest. Government to replace the change on the tax ladder. Let's go up the character discount by 3,000 k. That's 8 billion. Let's use the other 6 billion to strengthen the child - welfare system and the housing support. This way will increase the equation, but the changes presented in financial programmes will result in increasing inequities that are already too high in our society as the answer to the highest level. The secretary of the budget and the secretary of the economy on a question made by the chairman of the United Nations shows clearly. The financial program is tailoring the tax system to the rich. Which would not be surprising if the Independence Party was alone in the government. But it isn't, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u97	A respectable president. Now I've already asked the whole board. Legal committees on the government plan to raise expenses and weaken income companies at the same time. I wanted to see what I was looking for. A senator who was former secretary of finance to ask what kind of economy such an economy can be. You have three main income institutions that make up the state's budget, which are very sensitive to the economy, as shown in the opinion of a financial body, and one of them is being weakened by reducing the 1% lower income tax level, with less income. We are on our way down to an advantage swing that affects all three big pillars that help reduce our income even more. At the same time, expenses are being added. I can't quite figure it out. Control. The money committee seems to slip away when I ask about the exact thing. I'm trying to ask her how I'm wrong when I say, in fact, it's an emissary economy. How am I wrong when I say it's the situation today with this financial plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u98	Madam President. The chef who is stirring up this financial program and has recently been stirred, since 2013, is poisonous. It is a poisonous cocktail that when taxes rise, they increase their expenses. This is clearly found in the criticism of a financial body, both now and last year. And we, who are older than two winters, have experienced this poisonous cocktail on our own. This may run the government out of an elected period, but the final result will suffer in the common population. That's what we've been trying to point out, both of us in the United States and others, that this problem is not going to work out. This is what we experienced here in this council hall today. The financial and economic secretary spoke of the situation in Iceland as a way that the minimum amount of life could not be increased. He would have to be 240 of you. K. That's how the situation would be on the state's budget. Nor would it be possible to meet the demands of midwives and the demands of the State Department. But then, in the budget many refer to this marvelously goody and the success that has been achieved in recent years, thus reducing taxes is so desirable. But expenses are needed to improve the infrastructure because all of them are decaying. There are many contradictions in this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u99	A respectable president. In the matter of Congress and Ministers in the General's deliveries, the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs has said that it will come to the end of being all right to run a government fund in a corner. He said it here in reverse earlier tonight. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, as far as I understood, said this cocktail, to raise expenses and reduce taxes, could be understood as an injection into a cool economy. The chairman of the budget board, what? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, said that the expansion would be modest, if I understood him right in return to the highest degree. According to the prime minister, the increase in income and financial contributions is better than any group mentioned during the campaign. I don't quite understand these different messages I get, trying to patch them together. It is hoped that the discussion and discussion of the Committee and the subsequent review will become more evident. what we have in our hands exactly. Because I'm still going on this problem that I don't see to be self-sustaining, i.e. increase in income expenditures and weakens. I think it's something we really need to follow up on the committee. In this regard, I look forward to receiving the reviews of the financial Council. If it comes up that it is, what I suspect, a very serious personal mistake to put into this, I think the General simply needs to make some changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u100	Madam President. Yes, I agree with that. Senator, we need to make some changes in this financial program. At least the lesser part will suggest it. Here we are drawing up a vision of the future that the welfare system should be the balance device, not the government fund, but the welfare system. We add and detract from the economic rhythms. It's completely annoying. We're at the top of the economy. We may be on our way down, but we are very high, and there is no evidence that the economy is cooling off so marvelously that we need to reduce taxes and improve our expenses and take up the debt of the state, the situation of which has not come up at all. But it might be good to do so. If we were in a crisis, how much better it would be to use the wealth of government as a balance tool, not to serve with the sick and the elderly! What is it? It's not a policy I like. I would have liked to keep the rest, more billions in the rest, now and then go on the rest when we get down from the swing, rather than cut them down on services to those who need welfare. That's humane. That's good management. On the contrary, what is being proclaimed in this financial program is a very poor economy. True, it is a Typtic right economy and it seems to be trying to please everyone, which can't be done if you intend to keep your prosperity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u101	Madam President. In my first talk with this discussion, I finished my case by discussing the agricultural aspects of this strategy, but I'm going to add only that and then go to some other classes of subjects as they appear in the plan. In terms of the agricultural situation, Iceland's food policy should be shaped and it lies in 2019. It also says that an important part of policy implementation is to activate stakeholders and organisations. I'm just hoping that this time it will be done, because it has not been the case with a great deal of consultation in important issues. I mention, for example, the customs agreement with the European Union, where little or no consultation was made with stakeholders. So the spores scare these substances. I want to draw attention to the agricultural sector eventually, that in his budget for the next five years, lower budgets are expected each year. In 2019 the plan is 16 billion, but 223 is 15.4 billion. So it will be late to say that this government is something special to farmers in my opinion. Next time, I'd just like to step aside from community. The section on rural society and urbanity shows that the Agency will continue to work through a regional programme to meet localisation conditions including on electronic and telecommunications issues. It's a good thing. You may be inclined to point to positive aspects of this program, but that certainly is not all negative. It is a pleasure and a goal for the proportion of laws and companies with access to fiber optics to 99.9% in 2023. This is a very important matter of interest and an urgent community. The table in this chapter speaks of balanceing opportunities for employment. This too is a big matter for settlements. However, this is not discussed further and in this same table, reference criteria will be set in the presence of data. This is certainly no plan, to put it this way. It is not enough to have some beautiful tablets with noble goals when there are no standards or no timing. Sadly, more chapters of this financial program can be seen. Then there's another big build-up thing I haven't found a letter about in this document, it's a paradigm of electricity, as I came in. into the memory of the previous speech. This is especially true in the case of the break - up zone, such as the Skaft - year - old hip. The positive continuation of the project is described as the continuation of the risk of fractures, which is what burns most in this area. To be honest, I'm surprised not to mention this, because it's expensive to complete arousal. Therefore, it should be in this five - year program if the government is to continue with this urgent project. The chapter on fishing and fishing is considered a great deal about research and the need to further research. It contains such sentences as, with the permission of the president, a further study provides the government with the basis for responsible management and interest of the marine industry. It also says that to be effective in sustainable use of fish stocks, extensive research and monitoring of crops is required, both stock measurements and stock assessment. It's all right. However, in the years following a collapse, a Meritional Institute of Marine Research has had a massive cutdown, and in fact, the funds of the past few years at the Oceanographic Institute have just enough to keep seawater, as it were. A slight increase was observed in fish farms and in hairy fish studies. However, what is needed for this important group of subjects is a new research vessel. The current ship, Bjarni Sæmundsson, is just about 50 years old and the ship is expensive in business because of her age. A country that teaches itself in fishing should not have to live with such an old research vessel. In this five - year plan, there is no plan to buy a new ship, and little talk about funding for research. Unfortunately, it's just a word on paper, not on a level. Thus, the chapter on fishing and fishing is somewhat illustrated by a number of lawsuits in this financial program, as I think. It speaks of the importance and importance of the other, so nothing is done. Talk about the importance of ocean research, the need for extensive and ongoing investigations. And then what? Nothing. No ups in budgets. No plans for a new ocean study ship, etc. If I go to the end of the travel service, I'd like to first mention the coming and leaving fee. It is essential that we submit this price as soon as possible. The financial agenda states that there should be a means to be paid. I'm asking you, hasn't this been done enough over the last few years? Haven't you done your basic work yet? That's what I would have thought. It sounds like there's some hesitation in it. It is not plain that this price should be submitted, which is now a long time. I also want to find out what is called environmentally sustainable tourism and the proportion of eco-friendly cars from rental cars. The proportion of eco-friendly cars among cars is 0.2% today. The budget estimates this rate to be reached in 20% after five years. I don't think this is a realistic plan. In addition, there is a need to discuss how this will affect the income of a government fund if fuel - based automobiles fall so rapidly in the coming years. There's nothing in this program. The chapter on high school shows that in 2016 60% of high school students went to student tracks, while 30% received training courses. The percentage of students who attend are too low in my court. There is a shortage of industrialized people in the country, and it is vital that governments promote industrial education in an orderly way, even in some way. Industrialization is very important to the community. There has been an information and presentation job, but this is by no means sufficient. In the government covenant, it speaks of promoting a career. I can't see that there's some difficulty in these activities in the government plan until the next five years. That's too bad. It's spoken of beautifully of things, but no more of it. Similarly, I don't feel comfortable with students of foreign background. Their drop from high school is very high, or 65%. It even came. ... inconsistencies of the Ministry of Education at the 146th legisle for the inquiry of former Council member Nichole Leigh Mosty. The plan shows that the government will only investigate the situation. She doesn't have to be checked. She's in a hurry. It's already been done. The answer is clear. Sometimes I don't think your right hand knows what your left is doing with this government. However, it is good to consider other recommendations that have come up to counteract elimination, such as the establishment of a public college. To lower the target of a five-year withdrawal 3 percentage points, from 25 to 22%, I don't feel ambitious. A positive result is that they will continue to revise the distribution of funds to the high school, called a calculus. It's an urgent project, and to be honest, I don't understand how badly some high school students always get out of this model of budgeting, such as the University of Southnes. This work needs to be discussed with stakeholders, such as school directors, and it is urgent to increase the transparency of funds to the high school. The plan shows that this work should be completed in 2021. This new model will have to be settled. Finally, Madam President, I'd like to make a subject of this discussion a subject of Southnesia. All the mayors of Southnes met with a legislature committee in the winter and expressed deep concern that government agencies in Southnes, such as the National Institutes of Health, legislation, the Theocratic Ministry School, and Helga's affairs could have relatively lower financial resources from the public than comparable national institutions. It is urgent that this class of languages be taken into account in complete view of the Southnes. Because of the unprecedented increase in population, foreign labor, and trustrs, pressures within the southern courtyard are significant. [[The president calls.]] Unfortunately, I cannot see that this injustice in the Southnes is to be corrected by the government's means of financial management. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u102	Mr. President. I see at the top. Secretary of the budget is so low as to be seen here in the audience. We have two senators here, including... The one standing here, giving speeches, and the minister not in the hall. I just want to ask you, Mr President, what's the most important thing? For example, when it comes to a five - year financial program of the government, does the secretary of finance differ from sitting here in a council hall? It is a disgrace that repeatedly calls out to get him to stay in the hall. I wished that he would come here after I had finished my talk to hear another interrupt. Senators - and I see he's here, that's fine. Hopefully, he will be able to sit still until this discussion is finished and until the discussion is finished tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u103	Either way, it's the highest. Secretary of finance now at the Congress Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u104	A respectable president. Here I continue my list of fields of subjects and comments I have regarding the measurable objectives established by the government. They provide the basis for the reports made by the Minister each year, how governments aim to achieve the goals they set out there. There are some interesting goals that I want to draw attention to. The last time I was talking about a reduction in the pay rate of individuals at medical expenses, which may have been much smaller than large financial plans are expected. In terms of nursing and rehabilitation, it is interesting that according to the previous budget, there are as many nurses in 2016 as 2017. Nothing seems to have been done there. Why is that? It may come in some way to the last government, but something must have been done. If it's an error in numbers, I don't know. Regarding issues 27 regarding disability and the affairs of disabled persons, the government's policy is toward the number of people who receive the first 75% of microenergy assessments from 1,500 over the next year down to 1,200 in 2023. At the same time over the total number of people with 75% microenergy assessments growing slightly, or about 200, in the same years. This tells me that the number of people who risk 75% of microenergy assessments is similar to the number of people who receive a new energy assessment but that it is the goal to reduce the number of people who are at risk of disability. I think this is a very interesting goal when you put them together; that microchip is less likely to reduce the number of people who receive their first disability assessment. I think the need for a welfare committee to consider these numbers well, and the Ministry explains how it will achieve these objectives and why it is expected to reduce the proportion of those who are already desperate. Another goal is to proportion of pensioners with over- or underpaying more than 50 of you. K., 100 sp., 100 o'clock. K. range from correct payment, down. The situation is that 39% of pensioners receive more than 50 of you. K. too much or too little. It's a very high percentage and very respectable to lower it to 20% which I still feel is too high a ratio. It can't be that complicated to make this accurate. Another objective of the government is to reduce the number of references to the State's diagnostic and counseling centre. I wondered, " Is that a good standard? Certain preventive measures are to be taken. If so, it may be reasonable to have a measure of how effective the preventive measures are. To measure the consequences does not necessarily reflect the results of the action taken. In the case of the elderly, the objective of the government in this field is very significant. For the first time, the proportion of 67 years and older who delay pensioning should be increased by 10 percent. The percentage of pension workers with employment income should be increased by 9 percentages and in pension patients treated with insurance companies should be reduced by more than 5 percentage points. This is at the time when unemployment is predicted. Adding to the more successful and blessed business interests in older people, it will inevitably mean higher unemployment rates in younger people. This is the inevitable consequence of this course. Don't lie to the numbers as far as it goes. It's a goal to get there. There is no evidence that anywhere else should reduce the rate of employment of younger people, they would not be able to stand for unemployment to increase according to economic forecasts that the board operates, as has often been observed. In family matters: Given financial contributions in this field, I think there should be some systems that are more efficient within it, so that they will give the financial contributions that are more likely to be paid to those who are poor. I'll put nothing specific about making the system more efficient than making comments on two things. On the one hand, the percentage of parents who receive the maximum amount of money from the birth ordinary reserve is the same as in their last financial plan. What is interesting is that this ratio is then to be decreased. Probably because the roof is due to rise. I do not see, however, how it would be appropriate for me to increase the support I receive for my poor parents. However, the proportion of children in households with income below low income limits should also be the same as in the last schedule. It must then be without additional support that is supposed to go to income - stricken parents, unless support does not change the position of the children to whom it is looked. There's a paradox where you don't understand the context. The house - to - house support is a very interesting topic field. To begin with, it is necessary to mention that the contributions of this sector are to be reduced by the risk of making a special effort in the construction of cabib spray. I have no idea why, in view of the situation that remains in the housing market and the policy set out in this field. It shows that the proportion of families 25 years of age and older who have lost their real estate. However, this ratio is expected to increase at the same time as housing support is reduced. I'd love to know that this would be explained. Another objective of the government is to increase the number of people paying special interest on loans. I have to ask you if buying a house is my special property goal. Why, then, is this not simply a house - to - house payment if special property is used to buy houses? And it is the objective of the government that it is used in it rather than in saving a pension later in life. Last topic area, financial cost, responsibility, and pension commitment: This is government policy to reduce debt, reduce financial costs, do not give up new federal obligations, and reduce financial debt. This has to mean that the financial cost is reduced. But no, I'm assuming rising costs in this business area run out of financial plans, and I don't understand why. There are some things in this that are very incomprehensible. Regarding the Allied Parliament and its Subcommittee, a man begins at the beginning, there is an agent of the Generals and a Government Accounting. There are some interesting things in there. The U.S. legis agent is to return certain new concerns and numbers of swaddling bands and opinions. But in 2019 they are on the increase, next year. According to the plan and procedures, new staff should not be recruited to achieve these targets until 2020, at any rate relative to the year. I don't know how it fits. Now I don't think I'll be able to cover much more subjects, but there are a lot of interesting subjects. The rights of individuals, religion, the administration of the Ministry of Justice: There is expected to be a reduction in the production rate, to shorten a period of alien treatment. A very important goal. But I finally wanted to discuss the position that the budget puts us in. The key point here is to raise expenses. No one's protesting it. They've got income companies down here weak. No one's protesting it. Viral costs should be reduced by 3 billion; they should reduce the income tax level by 1%. They're weakening income companies. Yes, it is getting more money out of this income than it is because we're making a profit. At the same time, as financial advisers have pointed out, and the economic crisis goes up or down, these main income stocks watch very closely and follow the pace very much. We're in a cooling economy. We've been projecting over 6% to 2.9% in interest per year, we should be told that the estimated income of these main income stocks is on the sand. When we use the resources of weaker income companies to go to increased expenses without ensuring special financial support, there will not be much left to spare when the economic crisis takes place where it is being pointed out to be going. Sure, the Secretary of Economics says we can go to a minus, that's all right. I'm not entirely certain that I've heard it so often in the Independence Party before that it's okay to keep the state in line, especially in interest of interest, at any rate, in relation to plans. That's what we're using, we're considering the economics we have here, and she's predicting interest. There are many things in this financial program that surprise me. I still ask people to refute my vision of what the budget does; rising charges and weak income stocks are simply a poisonous cocktail, as mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u105	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about a state budget plan. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was here in his second speech. I want to start with that first thing. A senator was sooner opposed to what. paritaprevir This poisonous cocktail is the case with a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. The senator concluded his talk, since there are certainly plans for tax reductions, and that is a real expansion of many of our most important social infrastructures. Then he witnessed. A senator to my words, that I had spoken contrary to what I had said. A senator said that the increase in expenses was modesty. I think I probably said the tax returns were modest. But let it be. I just wanted it to come. If we talk only about taxes, we're right about what's happened and the highest. Financial and economic ministers were very well aware that the income taxes - in the past, there have been measures to reduce taxes earlier, the middle phase cut out. However, since 2015 the income tax has returned a 40% raise, the cost tax system has also returned an increase in income. My question to why. The senator is attracted to the individual tax reductions in this program. Hv. A senator has not expressed himself about those taxes. Tax tax is reduced by 1%, a special bank tax is reduced, which was not intended for the future. The insurance bill is reduced, roofs are reviewed for the cost of evolution, and plans to remove the roof. How's the mind of a man? A senator to these occasional tax changes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u106	A respectable president. I'm sorry I misunderstood your income and expenses, but it's actually about the same place down there. It goes in different directions, whether the increase in taxes is modest, it comes out on one thing after all. But that's about to be done, that's right. As for the bank tax reduction and the reduction, it may well be time for a decrease in the bank tax. He was now thinking, so there was a goal behind him. But I have not seen a diagnosis of whether we have come to the point where he has achieved his goal. All right. Once and if it's there, fine. On a roof for innovation, where I've heard from the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs that it affects only a few people and large parties. Then I wonder, why? Why not add a little bit so that we can make more money with those who are starting out, the starters, and we put more emphasis on innovation than on those who can go to the bigger markets in Europe and apply for strength from there and so forth? The insurance bill, it's something to live up to and to what is to be done there. If that's too high now as compared to what's supposed to be behind it, then it's all right to lower it too. This does not depend on the public service of income taxation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u107	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer is clear. A senator I know is quite accurate that I completely forgive him this discussion with the expenses and income. Of course, in all economics it is important that we be careful with all the tax changes and then what the money goes on to. Adding our expenses is not enough. However, I would like to point to page 14, which is of interest to see that the share ratio, i.e. The proportion of GDP, retains the time of strategy, indicating a certain level of caution, yet it is still working to ensure that this will match with the national capacity to improve citizens' services. I'd like to come up with a later answer to that tax increase is also planned on this schedule and ask for a thought. A senator for the planned payment of travelers who have spent a long time in the dough, far too long. And then the carbon money. These are tax increases. I see why. In terms of reimbursement of the cost of evolution, a senator would rather see a higher remuneration rate than just the roof. But, hey. A senator can answer that question later. First of all, I ask about the carbon charge and the planned payment for tourists and then the cost of evolution, whether he would like to see a higher remuneration rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u108	A respectable president. Because of the recommendation for the combination, there is a high cost. How to cost it is what I'm trying to criticize with the tax reduction, it's really costing part of the money and part of a natural debt reduction too. So the increase in the consumption and maintenance of it relative to the GDP of the land is a little based on the growing number of strains that are getting weaker. That's what I'm trying to criticize about that plan. For the price of tourists, as it has been called for a relatively long time. That is, as far as I understand, for some kind of building, for monotherapy or building up, which again would not be part of the combination, which is my criticism of the reduction of taxes, should be subject to the general public service of the state. It wouldn't be unwise, I think, to increase and strengthen the income markets of the state's funds; it would even be possible to lower these three income farms that are sensitive to the economy at the same time or to make use of the money fund's income in the position we are now in monotonous measures. If we are a mere stumbling block, we can back up and finance our ministry without cutting it down. The carbon, that's something that's been called in on international contracts and so on. I don't see much of that. There's always a question about where it should lie. This is a price that comes from disappearing because we're going to go to another kind of fuel. This is a different fee than the tax changes I criticize about the foundations of government income. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u109	Mr. President. It's interesting to listen to a talk. Senator. Granted, there are few senators in the hall; there are not many in the hall, who obviously covered this financial program as closely as possible. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Of course, there are some interesting things in this regard. Hv. A senator has had quite a word on this toxic cocktail a great deal of payoffs and tax reductions. It is interesting, in fact, to see that the joy of an independent sect or the left green over the expansion. Both classes seem to be similarly proud of the honor it is receiving. But because I know what to do. A senator has done a very thorough review of this program. I would like to ask him whether he has found any significant criteria for the use of public funds, the improved treatment of public funds, the expenses of state funds. Whether or not there is a goal to increase production, efficiency and economic management in public affairs. Of course, when it comes to well - being, it is easier to deal with the problems of a government fund or a challenge simply to increase your expenses in all aspects of life, as is being done here. But how important it is that right in the time of charity, public funds are being used, there is room, and opportunities to improve the government. I have not personally come across many indications that such things are involved, but I would be interested to know if they are. A senator has found some examples of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u110	A respectable president. Yes, indeed, I have found a few, but in this passage with me now I took notes and didn't even have time to review them all. I did not record exactly where the reaction was: Hey, that looks good. I thought about it when I went over it whether I shouldn't mention it, but I said to myself, " No, I'm in the maintenance and monitoring role. So, in some respects, what I don't mention is a compliment. To look it up and find my points right now in the counter, it's a little difficult. However, there were a number of factors in which the criteria were very good and where there was not much extra money in relation to the project but still increased efficiency on the scale. It seemed that it should, at least, give some money back. But this is a very good point. We've been dealing with this recently for financial reasons that it is a fixed straggler, 2%, everyone to follow, but in most cases, it's done only by not using the cost-grad bed. This is a question of this 2% adjustment requirement, made on the topic field and all the lawsuits. In some places it was made so that the spending range would cover the maintenance demand, and then the priority was within the frame to squeeze out some 250 million software projects. Perhaps a very good project, but it should have been found first, using these 250 million in the paybed back. There's a lot we're learning here. It would be very good to get a better overview of the maintenance programmes if it was to be a 2% retreater.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u111	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator said it would certainly be good. Hopefully we'll get more information on this in a financial committee where some means are actually being used. The evidence is certainly not obvious to me there. However, there is another interesting thing in this sort of compromise that seems not to be painful to them, for there is another which they seem to agree entirely with, that is, the tax policy in this financial program that is so clearly presented. It would now be defined as a standard right tax policy, but left greens seem quite kindly to submit to that course. However, it is interesting that this has been pointed out. In his speech, a senator made it clear that there is not much change in the tax system or the equal role of the tax system in a financial program. On the contrary, it seems to be a major factor in the role of the tax system. I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Does he agree with me in that regard? That as we look in support of children's families, to provide housing, the apparent trend for many years is to significantly reduce this equational role of the tax system and, especially, at the expense of those who may least have been involved, i.e. the most efficient groups at the time of e.g. to buy homes and, like, support children's families through both child support and child support?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u112	A respectable president. Yes, I noticed that according to the ASI analysis on the increased tax burden of low-payers who spent about 20 years, the personal discount has not been kept in the process of evolution, etc. If I compare it to a percentage decrease in income tax, which exceeds everyone, but not a dollar, evenly above everyone, but equally, this clump as the ASI analysis shows an even greater amount. Actually, when you go to the crowns, it increases the tax burden of low - paying employees compared to people with a higher income. These 14 billion, if accurate, would be sufficient for an estimated 14 of you. K. an increase in the amount of personal discount. Perhaps there would be a better operation and would be in the direction of equalizing this indiscriminateness outlined by the ASI. If we took the step further and made a process of decomposition, we could even achieve a better equation. But this is what I feel is missing in the discussions and policy agendas. We have a percentage tax system, not a flat tax or a dollar tax, except a nose tax. What is the normal rate of tax burden between income groups? What's the policy? Where should we go? Clearly, we are going toward adding a tax burden to low - paying employees. Is that really the course we will continue with or not? There is something that should be answered in the worldwide government policy every time, in our language fields, but that is absolutely lacking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u113	Mr. President. In my first speech, I made a comment on the contrasting ways in which these people are found in the hallmarks of their feet, now do not speak of those who accept benefits from social security, where they are in a position where they are considered to be left by each other, as reflected in seeking to improve their terms, to improve their own interests, to increase their income by working, if they have the skills that allow them, that the additional banks that so fall are taken back in the strength of their thinking and indeveloped impairments that describe the human spirit in this matter. May I please mention, Mr. President, that when it comes to identifying the political policy presented in the financial program presented here, another major matter, which was deeply involved in the campaign history and in general debates recently in our beautiful country, which is essential for the structure of the infrastructure so called. A recent statement by the Republic's self - travel minister is that the road system is virtually thwarted. What is the reaction of the government to a ruined road system? Yes, 5.5 billion a year in three calendars during this financial program, 5.5 billion, Mr. President. To the best of human eyes, this will be enough for one tunnel of the shorter type. This is the big campaign, the great initiative of this government. At the same time, it is not defined as how to respond to the necessary need for building up that runs according to the cost assessment even at hundreds of billions. We need answers in what way the government will respond to this need because these are thwarted by the secretary of transportation. Here we have 2◯3 million people traveling through our roads, foreign tourists, etc. They need answers about funding options, construction arrangements, private projects, or what. There's a lot of questions left. Of course, I could do a lot of delinquency, but of my individual affairs, I allow myself to draw attention to it and say that you miss the fact that the government does not respond to the number of disabilitys that happen each year and so endeavor to reduce its success. Mr. President. The government has described it as a health - care offense, especially in the field of mental health. There is a great need for action here, and there are people in great spiritual need. What is the answer to this government? Taking away some well - given resources, has been in the hands of people for 15 years, has become publicized and praised by experts whom it has taken out and evaluated. This is in harmony with goals set by the United Nations. There is no need for a specialist to realize that there is only one way to remove a person's appendix, but when it comes to spiritual needs, a variety of measures are needed. You've come under a man's hand trying to explain to those in charge that the advice of the spirit force and the mental force that works with it is one of the things that is available and has proved to be good for people, but it turns out that, in the power of some obsession, I'm going to say, I'm not going to have any big mouth, it's a relief at the end, if the good officials don't take over. It is obvious that at the time the government announces a high level of mental health care, two cabinet ministers of the government take action to turn back from calling, last yesterday, with protests and dramatic interviews in the media that left no one unscrupulous to what they heard, half of those who have enjoyed this service and their clients, to defend the resources of spirituality, and the mental health team, a crisis that has proved to be well - pleasing to many people in spiritual distress. I allow me to say that it is tragic to see the way the government treats the clients, the managers and the guardians of the Power of Mind and the mental health team with which it works with results that have been over with praise. Words and fortunes must go together. It is not enough to say that there is a major source of mental - health effort here. In times of trial, each person must be shown who he is, and now it is obvious that a work that has proved to be successful, a public code, and most of those who have enjoyed this service is to be handled. With the permission of a president, I will quote a very important article from a remarkable school student, Tryggvi Gíslason, who was the headmaster of the University of Education, an article he leaves, and published in the morning of April 3, showing that this option is based on a new route within the Icelandic mental health system, in line with the emphasis on the World Health Organization for Mental Health. This is in harmony with UN resolution in this subject and the World Health Organization. What is this? It is about what is called open resources and cooperation with those seeking service. They look for service on their own terms, and they come without a doctor's reference. This activity uses an important term, the term "power beyond what is normal. " What does that mean? Having the power to make decisions for yourself, to have access to information and resources, to learn to think in a critical way, to influence your own life, to develop a positive sense of identity, and to overcome prejudice. Now, in the history of the government, which puts emphasis on a major health crisis, the head of the capital health care has decided to lay down four standards associated with this relief effort. That's not logical. However, a minister of health that must have great respect for, and much trust has not yet provided a solution to the case required by the minister. This relief work is to be done under the reference system, and those in need of help are no longer able to look directly to the ministry on their own terms and without reference from the physician with the effort and the cost of it. In a time of government stressing health matters on the mental health element that all humans realize calls for vigilance and reform, this provision will be assured in this way. I challenge those who are involved in taking over, standing up and saying, "This won't happen on our watch. I challenge the highest. Secretary of health. I challenge the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. Here's the highest room. Secretary of finance. I know that he is worthy and trustworthy, and I allow myself to trust that this case will be saved safely without any harm to us here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u114	Mr. President. First, I'd like to give a warm answer. A senator with regard to the in ambition of the government when it comes to measures such as courage. This is not a charge for mental health care. On the contrary, this wealth of government costs very little each year. It's like another, it's like a cot. A senator entered, here is an enormously complex and complex subject - when it comes to mental health - and it is not the same approach for all. A mental force has shown that this resource is suitable for many, that it works very well for a particular group of people, with a lack of financial cost. I'm completely incomprehensible to see the lack of ambition shown in response to the highest degree. Secretary of health and the highest. Social Affairs minister when it comes to this particular strategy. But I was going to direct my question to what? The other thing I know is that he's very well involved, and it's about the disability issues and the financial resources that are directed into this national budget. Is there given enough money to live with the big promises that have been made on the revision of the micro-organization system and the improved production of micro-organizing donors, particularly on the current terms, we can say, the micro-energy pension system, which is the so-called currency problem? I think every group sitting at the council spoke very clearly of the fact that taking it off would be top priority. Benefits from the funding found in this financial group, as considered. A senator to keep his promises? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for his input into the matter and the inquiry. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that there is an outstanding debate around this financial programme that is going to lower the level of income tax by 1 percent. Then there comes a minister of finance, who is all alone to speak for a change that is worthy and positive and says: Well, we have previously seen such reductions. This has led to the increase in the income of the Kingdom. In other words, the minister of finance tells us that such action can be taken without the cost of any amount of government. A financial minister tells us that such measures can be taken and that even government funds benefit. This is in direct opposition to what the minister of finance has said about other matters, I'll tell you. A financial minister has found that the default market, using a number of sorts of numbers that cost it to be 1 billion or 2 billion, is really unbearable to be a secretary of finance when all these numbers are at hand. The fact is, Mr. President, these figures don't come out of the Ministry. Minister. For those who have fought for the loss of this vacation target, only one number has been set out. Who is she? It is zero, that there is nothing to cost it at all because of taxation from the income that would be generated by the fact that it would be uncooled to those people. This would lead to harmless government funds and could even benefit from such changes. The exact same thing applies when we are talking about the system that broke down. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson said here, this son of a bitch, I let myself say, a dollar against a dollar, it's only possible to get out of that system without having anything to do with it. [[The president calls.]] And I say, "Get this thing away from me."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u116	Mr. President. I can truly agree with that with what. A senator says that it is a top priority in a review of the micro-energy system, exterminating a dollar against a dollar's decrease. This is an enormously worklike arrangement. They keep people away from a job market, but they would like to use the workers they have as much as possible to do. I know why. A senator has a wide, well - developed background, so I would like to ask him about the second question in all other psalms, and it is about to address the economic issues of this financial program. I know why. A senator is a bombed economist and has wide experience in economic management. I'm curious to know, based on his background and experience, how he likes the more important part of the government calls being careful, which includes the economic goals of this financial strategy, in view of the fact that there's some blind belief that everything is going well. Hv. A senator, along with the people here, has listened to the warnings of many people who warn of too much optimism in economic terms, but the government intends to buy tickets in the lottery and hope to win and to afford the payoffs that have been given. Is there reason to rely blindly on the ideas presented here, or is there reason to listen to the warning that the future may be a little more critical than it should be?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u117	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson is indeed one of those who have set their hearts upon wanting to give a warning about economic forecasts and likely the development of economic developments in the coming future. Of course, it's always dependent on a lot of uncertainty, we know this. One of the things we will of course learn, and I believe that we may already have learned from this roundabout plan is that much more is needed than is now being done to publish and take into account different scenarios of potential developments. This is a very important thing. As far as I can see, there are indications in the budget. It's one of the things that we think of as a financial body. It is not merely a legal chronicle; rather, it has gained great place here as a responsible and highly respected person involved in these matters, which cannot be overlooked in its indications. I would also like to comment on that as well. A senator mentioned at the outset, that this arrangement we are fighting, this work system for all these impairments, robs people of great quality of life. It is good for people to be able, in the power of self - saving efforts, to help people through the years and centuries - this force is paralyzed by this system. It's unannounced and unattainable. Get that thing out of here, and get it out now! Well, you don't have to, at least. Minister, waiting for some agreement from the Quantum Community to dissociate this system. [[The president calls.]] Just do it now and do it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u118	Mr. President. The government has now put forward its financial plans, in fact, rather later than the law. As far as it could be concerned, it had to be typed for reprinting. Thus, it is safe to say that the government is misinvolved in these matters. Anyway. Here's the plan. It's a political policy firm, and it hits the note in the future. Understandably, it is extensive, or less than 400 pages, and it is impossible to discuss it in a complete way here on this discussion. Mr. President. The government began ruling at the end of November last year, and it operates on the basis of a government cohesion and procreation of Generalis. This covenant contains the purposes and promises of the government. It is, therefore, only to begin when we consider how the financial program fits into the covenant. One factor in the reading of the covenant is that it speaks extensively of innovation and the future. This is good, for innovation, technology, and education are essential to advancement and success in building a good society for the future and providing conditions for a wide variety of activities that will be desirable for young people. That was why I rejoiced. Much is said about innovation in the covenant. These include that during the first season, a transverse group should be established in consultation with the professional minister, including for innovation policy, development criteria for prosperity and quality of life, as well as for future committees on challenges and opportunities for technological change. Still, these committees have not been initiated. It cannot be noticed that after anything is waiting, the projects are fine, so I use this opportunity here and the advertisement after this job is started. In the government covenant, the government divides its work into seven principal categories, each to support others. One of these categories is just new creation and evolution. The covenant should continue to be quoted. It's supposed to promote new health issues so Iceland will become the front order making good use of modern technology in this area. It's supposed to have innovation and development at all levels, so education is the core of innovation for the future. It is to emphasize the increasing level of technology that will make the Icelandic community more competitive at a international level. Industry is required. All opportunities to change technology are to be used. It's supposed to encourage innovation in all areas, including in the official and in the deeply established articles. They're building a national fund around the resources of the country and they're starting with the energy resource. They're going to use this fund for a lot of things, including... to face financial disaster, but the remainder of the fund's budget will be used to promote innovation and support the growth and development of sceptres. This will result in the sowing of seeds to the advancement of new future well - paying jobs. That's very good. It is to promote innovation and product development in agriculture, and it is to do all the same in the fishing way and to support handsome research in the tourism industry. Then, under the term "new creation, " the natural process is to exploit the intelligence and support future social change. There's a lot of good work to be done here. It's all very, very nice. I'm very pleased with all of this. They're looking at the operations of the New Creation Fund. True, it was observed in response to my inquiry to the Minister of Creation that there is still a report to be received in March but has not yet been introduced. Anyway. It has become quite long, and a good list of beautiful plans for a so - called grand offense has become available to many to speak. Counsellors in their tongues discuss what lies ahead in most areas of our country. How thrilling it would be, then, to see all of this work out in the financial program that you have finally considered! Mr. President. So I made it my first task to read the financial program with my new creation glasses on my nose. To help me quickly find all this about the innovation in this big yellow dork, I used, of course, a word -- and - a new creation. Knowing that there are no less than 160 cases in this fine financial program. I was relieved right away. It was apparent that this was quite a time for action. In the treaty of the government, the establishment of a national treasure became evident earlier in my case. So I was more surprised that it did not seem to be in a certain way assumed in a financial program that usually exists. Regarding him, see section 2.3 Economics, by permission of the president: However, there is progress on the level of payment... It is also the proposed establishment of a national trust fund, which is intended to be funded by further contributions from land induction, and it is designed to raise and increase funds in order to reduce significant financial losses on the state funds that have come up because of unforeseen events. No innovations in there. It's a financial crisis. The chapter on policy and the key results of the State budget is: In addition to the efforts to build up the National Fund to face the unforeseen events that will be funded regularly by partners living on state property, the program will continue to increase the sustainability of financial resources. Not a word of innovation. It's a little strange, considering what you read in the government contract. I'm going to quote them: The dedicated section of the fund's provision will be used to promote innovation and support the growth and development of sceptre companies. In this way seeds of seed will be sown to the advancement of new future well - paying jobs. Mr. President. In view of the spending frames of the environment, it is advisable to compare what was said on topic areas 7, studies, innovations, and articles of knowledge, as mentioned in chapter, in the financial program of the last government and this new one. During the five - year period under both schedules, of course, the annual gate was expected to be less than 69 billion in the first, while 723 in the new one. This is an increase of about 3.5 billion or about 5%. So I ask myself, " Is this an example of a big offense or a big look in this area from what used to be? ' Does this do much more than just stick to GDP over the period? Mr. President. How fascinating it is to watch other aspects of the budget when compared with this great expansion of innovation and the increase of knowledge in the country! There I will especially consider 12 of the budgets involved in making agricultural contributions. The agricultural sector during this same period should flow over 78 billion. It is about 6 billion more than man intends to promote new creations and fields of knowledge in the land. To be honest, it's very interesting. I would like to ask if this is an example of a vision of the future and a great offense in the fields of innovation and intelligence in the eyes of the highest degree. Governments. In view of the tremendous emphasis on innovation in the government covenants, I think we've all been satisfied. This important area that prepares us for the future should certainly become ours. But no, it's not done. It's the same with other major attendances at the highest level. Governments, they are, in fact, at best, quiet and can almost be spoken of as retreating instead of moving forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u119	A respectable president. When it comes to innovation, research, and development in Iceland, I want to stop for a moment. Now, in recent years, we have greatly increased support for the competition fund, and most of us agree that in the field of sceptre companies, we are doing quite well with regard to financial support or support. Similarly, in recent years at the General Assembly, the taxological environment has been reimbursed. I was standing here yesterday, and I recommended further changes in those factors. We have also made adjustments regarding opportunities to attract foreign experts to the country by means of so - called "expat's rules and to provide tax discounts for a limited period of time when experts are coming for the first time to work in Iceland. Now we are preaching that we are going to put many billions in the coming years in support of a company that has come up from the tip and is going to the height stage. Of course, careful implementation of this support remains. But when all of this is taken up, along with the fact that we are offering a review of the roofs for research and development, I ask myself, " What is that? ' A senator means that we should be doing for innovation in the country that is not being made? How much money does the senator envision that we should be defending in that lawsuit class? What material changes are it for innovation companies? A senator calling in?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u120	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I am both kind and obliged to answer that question. I'd like to start by saying, of course, there are a lot of good things that have been done in the past and no reason to abuse it. That's right, we've done fine in many ways, but what I was talking about was the new promises. If that's how it works. Ministers that most of the necessary things have been done, why is this category of lawsuits being stressed in the government covenant? Why is it a requirement to spend money for innovation and evolution, if clearly seen? So I'm kind of gonna have to drop the question back. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister, because he mentioned the intention of making plans, I hope I handle, well, billions of people, I think he said, to back up a sceptre company. I ask: Where are the billions being added? I can see them at least. Not in the budget, but maybe I've missed it, and it's fine. A minister corrected me in that way, and I would be very happy if he could direct me to these many, many billions, in store for the starters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u121	A respectable president. I just called for what? A senator would follow the rigid criticism of the lack of support for a innovation company with some specific proposal. This is a financial program. We say in it that we are going to raise the roof for research and development, we have it in the schedule period to see to it that the roofs, as we have discussed in the Treaty. Similarly, in connection with the income of the energy sector, from land induction, we are in the process of making use of some of the new incomes in our country, it could be billions, it could be 3 billion even a year, the exports are all left. But that's how I see it. It's not that I believe that we've done everything that needs to be done. We are preaching much more. We are offering an application to provide the environment in Iceland for companies who want to do research and development even more desirable. I referred to our financing of the startrs, but now we need to start looking our eyes more closely toward the growing plants that have come up from the sceptre. We're taking sides in our plans for the upcoming interest payments from the energy sector many billion by incident, depending on how it plays in the end of the day, in this eye. These are our suggestions. Where are the suggestions? A senator who comes up here and says, "You're not doing anything for innovation in Iceland? What suggestions are he calling on in order to be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u122	Mr. President. It's starting to get weird. I'm asking the highest. Minister on where he will find his grand appeal in his own financial plan and how he will follow his own government covenant. He'll answer practically, sort of have to say "stupid" and insist I'm going to explain where that money is. Then he begins talking about many billions, possibly 3 billion, possibly, perhaps, perhaps, perhaps, perhaps, perhaps. Should not this national fund be used to build a nursing home? Is that a misunderstanding? Was he not to be a reserve for financial calamity? Which of these things to do? Are you going to do all of this? Is it all there? Yes, a minister just wants to do so well when he will give his talk in the future show me where the contributions from a national fund to innovation are made in this government program for the next five years. I'd love to see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u123	Then, as mentioned earlier, the first part of the general financial discussion ended. In spite of the announcement made by the President at the beginning of a conference today that the Ministers of Justice would address each particular case tomorrow, the president has been intent on compromising his plans so that the social and equal ministers will now recognize their classes and participate in discussions about them. A minister has five minutes in the beginning to discuss his lawsuits. Since then, members of each administrative body, with the exception of members of the Minister's Party and two members of each opposing body, have the means to direct inquiries to the minister. In the first round, members and ministers have two minutes twice, but in later round two minutes the first time and one minute the second time. Those answers are not allowed. Then we're going to start a discussion on the Supreme Opportunities. Minister of Social Affairs, Ásmundur Einar the Daðason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u124	A respectable president. There are a number of cases in this financial program under my department, including The issues of 27, disability and the affairs of disabled people, employment markets and unemployment, housing support, family affairs, and older people's affairs. Of course, in five minutes it is not possible to cover all the issues, policies and currents there and the government's plans, so I'm going to take over a few things. Then I trust that there are issues that will arise in reply or further inquiry. First, I want to address the issues of microenergy pensioners because I know that they have been a significant subject for the discussion that has been going on today. It makes it clear on the basis of this government that the plan is to put a great deal of energy into the system change in the micro-energy pensioner population and implement a work programme. Estimated for an increase in budgets of 4 billion to meet certain factors there. It's a totally clear plan of the government to eliminate a cent in return to a dollar, it's going to happen at this job. It is also clear that this work is just about to start, so it may well result in factors that will require changes. But first it has to start work, and it is very important to get her started. I've said that at the council and even said so. in this week's unprepared queries period. Then I'd like to come into a house for a minute. An increase in stock strengths is expected to occur next year up to 800 million. K. and as a result, it is assumed that about 300 apartments are built annually. This is the agreement that has already been concluded with the labour market partners for building apartments in the general apartment system that has started and has given good results. It is also available and has been observed by many employees of the labour market that there is a willingness to add. It is not likely that there will be a conversation between the labour market parties and the government afterward; nothing can be said at this time. It can be added that the government's budget and policy are expected to reevaluate the growth system and the building reform system and put emphasis on it; the extension of contracts is now being done. The main point is that these improvements will benefit young people and increase in the number of less - incomeers. I want to come on two more things because now my time is running out, it's not a very long time. On the one hand, it is an obstetrical because it is assumed that these will be increased during the period and that there will continue to be an extension of the birthworm and a implementation of it in agreement with the labour market parties as the government has announced. It has had a discussion with the labour market partners on how it will be implemented, so it is the government's intention during this most ideal period that they will see to it that the birthworm will be extended to 12 months. Finally, I'd like to enter a class that is of great importance, and there is a definite change in policy, both in legal matters and in policy activities that are about to take place and in the lives of children. It allows for an increase in funds during this period to be more useful in early child - care activities, both for the implementation of new resources and for possible system changes. I think it is of utmost importance that we put our emphasis on this sect because we see that young people are increasingly anxious and mentally ill, which I think is due to our well - being system to take better care of their children at previous levels. Of course, I could have a long case about it, but I'm sorry, there's only two seconds left of my time, so I hope someone will ask me this after. After this talk, I look forward to sharing in discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u125	A respectable president. A government that teaches itself on reforms and claims to be in charge of the public in the country is in power and now introduces its emphasis on the years ahead, a time when there is a unique wealth, when there is an opportunity to compensate for the painful and difficult sacrifices needed to make for an economic banquet in the first decade of the century. We know who was there. At this point in the discussion, the matter of a pensioner comes to mind first. The elderly live in scandalous terms, and it is obvious that a minister of finance seems to find it difficult to recognize the reality they live in, the monthly amount e.g. which they have for a living. It's even less than 250 yous. K. This needs to stop the government from taking in a front of its own head and fixing it up. If not now, when? This does not seem to be a matter of financial importance. For God's sake, the highest. Minister, tell him I'm wrong. How can those in positions of authority justify the prospect of life's pension recipients, potentially contributing to feelings of distress and emptiness? All incentives to income are taken from them, those who have the means to do so, such as some chance. The exact same principle applies to microbubbles. The government's clear, high - sounding promises were before and, indeed, after the election, to correct the terms of disability and to reduce a crown to a dollar and to add to basics. Government officials have recently spoken of this for themselves, everything is being prepared, the review of the death, as was true of a minister in those spoken words. These matters should be priorities. This was supposed to be the first act of a new government. The question is, How long is the worm staying? When will the government take over? These good subjects of ours are waiting for an answer, and we now owe them absolution. When's it coming, chief? Minister? What's she gonna be like? A short answer wishes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u126	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my speech about microenergy pensioners, work is being started. I hope that work can begin as soon as possible. The structure of the flow algorithm should be related to the performance assessment, but there are a very large number of available endpoints relating to both the quality of life assessments and the general language of the population to be taken concomitantly. This new assessment will clear up a crown, that's what we're going to do. It was my conclusion that professional work was finished on the point that it was important to get the politicians to do this, both those involved in the workforce, to work performance, and then get the politicians to discuss how we're going to build up the ideals for these groups. In that light, special requests were made for the members of the staff. There wouldn't be too big a team to work on. In that light, representatives from both government and government were requested. The whole thing has actually been checked out, there's just one form of appointment, from all the employees of the labour market, from Team Help and Others, but it still lacks a few requirements, or, actually, just one form of appointment, that is the representative of the government opposition that's going to be set up in this task force. I hope that we can get there as soon as possible so that we can start this work because it's extremely urgent. I've been telling you since the first day when I took up my office that it was a top priority to work on matters that are involved in the job. It is urgent that this work can begin as early as possible because of that, just as it would be. A senator came in, saying it can't wait. But we're going to make this system change, and we're going to make it better while it's better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u127	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for sincere and good answers. It has new legislation that rights the part of the disabled, called NAPA legislation. We hope it comes to action this spring. Hence, the minister has been following this matter very closely with interest and sharpness. Thank you very much for that. Other than that, I feel that this financial program, as I have stumbled on it, is much like a thousand free birds in the forest. There is little or no hand at hand but much about high goals. There are many of the welfare issues this government should have, but it's completely cornered. The works and the powers speak more than a thousand words. Child - welfare issues are now in focus, and they are in crisis. There are plenty of children on film stages and we need solutions immediately. It will be interesting to know what is going on in those areas. They are to build a new home on the southwest corner. Still missing the lawn. They don't know where the house should be, and it'll be three years before the house comes and it's clear that it's gonna need solutions. A respectable president. No, this nation, although preserved, doesn't deserve it. V.E.G. Minister. What you can read in this program is disappointing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u128	A respectable president. I'm impressed. A senator may be rather negative, perhaps because it is so late in the evening. But I just want to talk about these two issues. A senator came in. It is true that the community service bill and the NAPA are on the welfare committee. It is very important that they be accepted at this council because I am increasingly concerned that there may be some issues in which the plan is to sue for these new legislation because we have actually increased contracts on temporary regulations that I think are at best unfortunate. It is intended to continue there in the same way. Similarly, in the case of child protection, there the government has announced measures, both short - term, but intended to develop experimental projects over the next two weeks, and thereafter to try to plan a future strategy. In fact, this work has been offered to revise child protection laws and all laws involved in the affairs of children during this ideal period. Of course, it is not something that is being done in four months that is the time since that government began. I'm just not saying any more about that, but we're going to have to go through with it and put a good job into it. This work is started and the entire child protection system is mapped. It is hoped that a formal work will be able to get started. But there is nothing lacking in political will to ensure a plan for children who are addicted to addiction and other problems, as I did in my discussion of history. I don't really have time, I was gonna come up with one more thing, but I might do it later when it comes to the next question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u129	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. The day, when this document is here, I don't know if it's the right thing, was introduced, that it was exactly what the government was now founded on. It was an extraordinary honesty on his part, but this document underscores that it is quite accurate what this fine minister said, this is the reason for the government business. It's not here. It's over there. There are chairs. That's it. V.E.G. Social Affairs and Justice Ministers say he intends to start work, he intends to start a job on a job basis, he intends to start working on the subjects of the elderly, everything is vague and not in hand. He's going to make a deal with people who give this report, with president's permission: blame for poverty and misery. So I continue to quote the Chairman of the Quantum Community, she says, by permission of the President: The government budget will maintain and create social problems rather than provide solutions. It's not making a wound that we need so much, it's like putting a Band-Aid over a grave. It's the norm. A minister who is now going to start working to correct the terms of this group that trusts in the government to do so well, as presented here. I ask, "Why on earth did the government not join us in the Middle Ages in our budget, lifted free income goals so that people could earn money without having to suffer for it? " And why in God's name did the government not take a step in the budget and raise the personal discount? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That would benefit people right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u130	A respectable president. As I said before, it's only been a few months since the government began. It has on her policy list to improve the quality of micro-energy donors while implementing a system modification to implement a work performance assessment and a new rehabilitation system. That knows why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, who went for work in the last terms needed to improve the interest of senior citizens, is that there is much to consider when using a new system and thinking. And it is important that as many as possible come to it. I've stressed in agreement with the Micro-circum that political, political, or political alliances will come to that end. I got it. I got it. A senator to pressure his party and his comrades in the opposition to appoint representatives for this work so that they can begin as soon as possible because it is extremely important that such work be started. It's extremely important that we can start it as soon as possible, and I'll agree with it. A senator, that it is important that this group be restored. At the end of that work, how the government and financial authority must come about will finally be revealed. The exact conclusion cannot be made at this time. It takes a conversation, and it takes cooperation to get it out. It's going to even be there. Go over a crown to meet a dollar's decline. Other aspects of the social security system will be reviewed when it comes to microenergy pensioners. It is the determined will of this government to introduce this new thought. I am convinced that while what will be introduced, we will be able to improve the terms of these groups and there will be no hope for poverty or misery. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u131	V.E.G. President. It is precisely because of the experience presented here to guide a committee for probably two years and have been in it one more year before, which he realizes is that this system change announced by the Minister will not exist in one day; it will not be until perhaps the end of this election period. That is, if the government has the trust of the party's contract, which it doesn't do according to what it says. So I ask, what is the government going to do now? The people around here can't stand to wait. You're right. You're right. One prime minister said just over a year ago, sitting in a second grade, that they cannot wait for justice, they don't have time for it. I respect that at the highest. Minister to plan to start this job, but what should be done until that happens? It's not going to work out until after some years. Then I'd like to call attention to something else; there are young cripples. It says, by permission of the president, on page 18. 341 in the government budget, and I'm describing the author of this genius: The only major risk factor for the lawsuits is how many individuals have been reassigned to social security and paid their high-energy pensions each year. Oh, boy. I just don't have a word for this genius. What will a person do, as indicated in this program, to reduce the number of micropigs or the incidence of disability to 1,200 people in 2023 C.E.? How will this be done? What's going to happen? Minister to do so? Sadly, what will he do to prevent young people, especially young men 18 to 24 years of age, from piling into disability food? [[The president calls.]] What's this beauty going to do? A minister to correct and correct these matters other than to make a system change in a few years? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u132	A respectable president. It is quite clear that according to this financial program, increases are expected in the years to be taken up in microenergy and pensioners. It is also clear that when this work begins as politics will include. may well be, at some point at that job, the conclusion that there is some step in the direction that is wise to take, but they must be in line with the work that has to do with the work. That is why I have emphasized that work can begin as quickly as possible. That's what OBI's been criticizing, i.e. That we haven't been able to make it before. And that's just because we're still waiting for orders in this group to start. I've been trying repeatedly to push after it can work. Then with regard to young micro-energy pensioners, I'd like to say that this is one of the largest challenges the community faces today, i.e. that we must look for ways to help young people who, unfortunately, find disability by going through rehabilitation, finding resources to come back as active participants into society and into the labour market. Of course, this is a challenge if the fact is that in the last year, for the sake of creation, there were more disability victims than births in the land. Then it is gravely serious, and somewhere we fail as a nation. That is why it is so important to place increased power on the work that is involved in the work programme, since the assessment and structure of this work may be called a new rehabilitation system because it is what it is. These fine young men as well. A senator spoke of falling off the labour market, the work programme, and the structure of it captures these individuals, aiding them in cooperation with the health system, with the rurals, with the workforce, with a victim and others getting them back into the labour market. So all I can see is that me and what. A senator is only on the same page with the tremendous importance that this work takes place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u133	President. I'm gonna let myself be a little negative. It's not because there's so much time. A chapter on family matters that discuss family and child support shows that the main challenge for the group is increasing mental health, both children and adults, and the growth of young microorganism in which mental disorders are the most common reason for disability. The conclusion is that it is important to meet these challenges by strengthening basic services, strengthening prevention, and early intervention and increasing the access to mental - health services. The goal is to increase early intervention in the affairs of children and improve the maintenance of a poor family. This is an important objective, in view of the fact that in 2016, 11.3% of children lived in households with income below low income limits and almost half of homes with children having difficulty reaching their ends together, or 49.4%. Since we know the negative impact of poverty, struggling to make ends meet, the mental health, the safety of children, and the long - term costs for society, I would have felt that it would have been necessary to take decisive action to break down the trend. The objective is that after five years, the share of households, with children, who have difficulty meeting 43% and proportion of households with low income thresholds, below 8%. Does a minister feel that this is an acceptable goal? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to child-circuits. At what level of pay, the pediatric compensation will begin to be reduced by e.g. Single Parents? As far as I can see, that happens at $150,000 a month, which is under the minimum wage limit. Is there any contribution from a family type that gets unscrupulous pediatrics on the minimum wage? Then I'd like to point out a minister's error in the financial agenda on page 6. 354, which shows that a child's improvement is rising by less than 10% compared to 2017. In fact, they increase the percentage compared to 2016 and actually decrease by 2% compared to 2017. Is this an error, or is it a beauty operation? A chapter on the future shows that the main goal of family affairs in Iceland is that children and their families will have a good life, where everyone lives on equal occasions. I can't see that it's on the agenda for the next five years from defined goals and measures. When will a minister arrange for that goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech and would like to say that I share that vision with intensity. A senator that it is important to intervene when it comes to early intervention in the affairs of children. I don't think it's just poor, there are other things that need to be taken in, which is of enormous importance. It is clear that the government is going to take decisive action on this point. That job's started, just like I came in earlier. But when it comes to children living in poverty, it is also intended to reevaluate the improving systems we have, growth reform systems, child reform systems, housing reform systems, making it more useful to families with the lowest income. As a matter of fact, a review of the child - reforming system is being heard by the secretary of finance rather than by the social and equality minister so that some changes are not in place at this time. Of course, it can be affected. Yet, in the affairs of children and early child development... I don't think that's enough. We're not just talking about the increase in money into a unique relief team. We need to attack a system change, see how the welfare system is built up against these children, so that the system takes them sooner. That thought, in turn, needs to be followed by financial support. In my department, this early intervention has begun work and is what is quoted in the section there. The plan is to attack system changes so that society will pick up children sooner when they have problems and that the different systems, the Ministry of Education, the Health Ministry, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the local community, and the basic schools will work more together, and we will break down the walls that are there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u135	President. I'm going to keep talking about stress and mental health, because I see that it is the red strand throughout the welfare party. According to a workforce and unemployment chapter, among the major challenges, there is an increase in the number of people who receive a currency pension. Subjects who have been evaluated for 75% energy increase annually with an increase between 2016 and 2017 by 3.9%. The results seem to me to suggest that the results of the rehabilitation work and active workforce are insufficient. It also says that the causes of this trend are important in the number of people who receive energy assessments, where it seems to be a means of interaction between jobs and personal obligations rather than an increase in the number of people with certain diseases or conditions. When considering solutions to these challenges, we will discuss risk factors, meeting with managers, and increased monitoring. President. I think it's a weird approach. The problem is huge, requiring huge measures. It takes the authority of individuals to choose work that suits and enriches their lives and ensures increased time for family, loved ones, and interests. When the problem is that people are enslaved to work and that they barely end up together, solutions such as other inspectors are embarrassingly improved. Why was e.g. do not consider shortening the week of work? Besides, I'd like to mention that I find it interesting in a chapter about the elderly to learn how much emphasis is placed on increasing the workings of the elderly. There is a group who have been breaking up in their jobs all their life and who have the right to relax and enjoy the few years they have left. Some may be in the position of having a good time working, and it is fine for the group to have a choice, while the others who have already had enough of the workforce also have to make a choice to quit. To have a real choice to stop working, you must also be able to afford it. The government should ensure that the elderly have this freedom of choice, for if poverty forces the elderly to continue breaking out in a job market, that is not a great choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u136	A respectable president. Regarding the increase in disability, I would say, on the one hand, it emphasizes that in the first place it is necessary to implement the quality assessment in order to cope with the present problem and likely to remain in the pipes for the next few years, because I believe there are quite a number of individuals who have not experienced their release while they were children. Second, in order to get out of the problem we are dealing with this category, we need to start thinking much more about our children, how we're doing in the early stages, because I'm worried that the problem we're dealing with right now, which concerns people in the age range of 20 to thirty years or 20How35 years, is different in our pipes unless we make systematic changes in the welfare system so that the ability to deal with these problems can be addressed. Then we have to start the other work that turns on the children, and there I want every member of the council to join us because it's not a matter of the same rate, it's the case of all the classes here at the council. It should not be a political issue that we change our welfare system to intervene sooner. Then I'd like to come in for abbreviated week of work. A research project has been carried out by the government and in cooperation with the BSRB, which is involved in the shortening of the workweek. The plan is to extend that task. It is being prepared to cooperate with the BSRB. Some of the workplaces have been trying to cut down the workweek and work together with the information received there. Work is being done to extend it and to increase the number of working places inside it. You will need one of the posts still in there, and this will be done in good consultation with the BSRB. It's all about the government. Of course, the rest is part of a agreement between parties, and I emphasize that this project can continue. I agree with what. A member of the council that this can have a profound effect on the situation of family and family members.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u137	Madam President. The discussion that takes place here tonight is an important event. It's the highest. The Government's Minister for Social Affairs in order to discuss policy issues with members of the Parliament. His party is big, wide, and important. It is therefore of utmost importance, Madam President, that here are members of the Parliament with clear and explicit answers from the minister. V.E.G. President. I'm going to take for two cases at the short time this is a provision. As Minister for the government of Iceland, we have the highest power. A minister's responsibility for the deliberate impairment system called a dollar's damage system and, in its very best nature, means to prevent people who have limited ability, disability, in the power of self - preservation efforts to improve their success through increased work. This means the use of extra income, each with a reduced amount of money. The government as a minister is considered to be worth every cent on these people at the same time as the government, honor and nice, on the part of the board, feels that it is possible to balance the scale of $6 billion a year. I'm going to the top. Minister to let this defection system continue? It's not time, it's not a will, it's not patience for a root number here. A clear answer must be made, and it must be clear. I give it to you, Madam President, that this is called after the involvement of the board of directors on a committee that is to be considered on the staff. The five political groups, just as different as they are many, are required to agree on one representative. Can't a minister make sure that the government's opposition has a representative on this committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u138	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this fine speech. When it comes to the ideal disability and impairments there, I have repeatedly said that it is intended to be addressed in the introduction of this new system. We have come quite a long way to that work. The structure has been shaped, and it is available and has been spoken to by many people, but many factors associated with it need to be resolved and even reversed. To the election, and to the increase, how much, and how much, and to the gain, and to the gain of a dollar. The plan is that it will take place at the same time as this work. That's why it's so important to get started. She shouldn't have to take years, as many people do here. They're supposed to be able to move fast. Of course, since then there is considerable work and basic preparations. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gerstein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, worked on this, and much that can be used from there. It is absolutely clear that it is my intention and purpose of the government to do this with force. This is one of the two main priorities of my Ministry this year, one of my professional ability assessments and the other of the children's issues. So it's all very important, and it's very important to get politics into this, and it was even. The micro-creature union who wanted members of the political party to come in there. But they also requested that this group not all, much too large. Fortunately and sadly, there are a great number of members of the General Assembly, who are more fortunate for democracy than when it comes to such orders. I have not received this request from the council or from members of Congress to increase the number of this group. I've repeatedly requested requests to join us, but they've not been received. This is the first time I've ever heard a request for a growth, and I'm sure it will be, and I'm certainly open to it, but it can't be too big, because it'll be a whole legion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u139	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the answer. I'm going to tell the secretary: The time for action is now. There's no use coming here and talking about years. That's not possible. There is no one to wait. It doesn't mean anything to have any lengths. I'm not going to charge the highest. Minister of it, I know that he has a good mind, but I expect a minister to show it, and that he understands that work and word must be joined together. It doesn't mean to come here and make good words, he'll be, Madam President, appreciated by his actions. And he'll be in there again and again until he's done his job. I'm gonna take this opportunity to ask the highest. Similarly, a minister will be willing to make it happen on his watch as Minister of Social Affairs that the Conspiracy and the mental - health team will pass away in one of the institutions. That's not an option, topv. Minister and Madam President, the Minister of Ministers to come here and the Supreme Court. Health Ministers and they refer to each other in this matter. The way they handle this matter is noticed. Here are huge interests for the patrons of Intelligence and the mental - health team, for their partners and for those who have been involved in this operation with elegance and great success, which will be late to be fully thanked. Madam President. A clear answer is required. There are no suspenses. Is a minister willing to come here and say it to the council and to the nation that the Mindates and the Mental Beings will be rescued, clear and clear, and free from murmuring?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u140	A respectable president. Like I said before what? Sæmundsson It's up to you to find out what's going on in the state budget of 4 billion dollars. increase to micro-energy donor immediately next year, so it is also possible for this work to begin the work programme and to discuss the criteria because these are two factors that play together. The conclusion may well be that the score will be one step in the other factor to improve, although the overall efficiency of the assessment may not be 100%. Therefore, it is so important that this work begins as early as possible because we want to consider this in context and this will be in line with the work being done on the implementation of an assessment. Nobody's talking about years in this relationship, huh? Senator. No one's talking about it. We're going to put full power into these matters. That's what I've said. This is one of the two priorities this year. I hope that this year there will be a long way to go. This year doesn't have many years. As we have seen, both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs are represented by the Ministry of Health and the Department of Health, which the Ministry of Health has announced some system changes in these matters, while the Ministry of Justice is a member of Social Affairs. It's perfectly clear, but it's linked in an indirect way. All I can say about this is that the Minister of Social Affairs is considering these matters. That's what I've said to the leader of the Matrix when they came to see me. I've also had conversations with the welfare committee, the head of the welfare committee, but the Department of Social Affairs can't open up health care. So, the Ministry has some sort of idea. There is no evidence at this time, but I expect it to come. [[The president calls.]] There are many things about the power of Mind, which are very positive and how it is built up. That's what I've said in public, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u141	Madam President. It is a short time to discuss here an enormously important group of subjects and a wide variety of languages. When I look at a destination, I may be most disappointed in what I see. A societal minister in these important matters is largely a part of the political policy in the seminary seems to have been submitted to the labour market body. There are other things, in fact, in the policy of the government. Thus, it does not seem to have an independent tax policy but is intended to shape the future tax system, thereby disregarding the council completely in that discussion. The same is true when it comes to family emphasis, improved systems, housing, and other matters. There appears to be no policy on the part of the government. Rather, it is simply requested by the labour market partners. This, of course, leads to great disappointment. It is also disappointing when you look at policy plans that major goals seem relatively poorer than they were a year ago, less vague in many respects. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Ministers to the objectives of disability, in view of the restoration of some kind of Commission work on a review of the microenergy and biofuel system. Nevertheless, it is expected that microorganisms will actually decrease substantially in proportion to the number of active people in the duration of this financial program. I wondered: " What trumpet has the highest trom. A minister in memory to make sure that this is the case when it is clear that the primary objective of the study of the micro-organization system itself is not available? It is also disappointing to see that the goal of disabled people is severely reduced. It primarily highlights the analysis of children, which is certainly important, but I miss the goals of previous financial programs that focus on the rights of disabled persons for their own lives. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I see very little about it in a new financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u142	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his questions and speculations. First of all, I'd like to say that it is not a matter of assigning the government policy to announce that men intend to agree well with the labour market partners. Hv. A senator with his history right at the Business Association knows that although the government commands that she wants to have discussions and conversation with the labour market parties, it has not always been that in this case, some expansion of the process has not been covered. It's important, of course, and I think we should. A senator will agree that it is important that governments have a good conversation with the labour market. I remember that already there was. A senator was in charge there, and he often repeated that governments must have more consultation with the labour market partners. That, of course, is what we are preaching, and that does not mean that the government's policy is being eliminated. In terms of the professional performance assessment and the reduction in the number of micro-energy pensioners in the run, it is very serious, the government intends to put power in the implementation of the work programme and that it can be active and effective in the next year. Then it is clear that with that change, we should also be able to assist the people we have discussed here, people who have problems for a while, I mean, to get back into the job market with a wide range of options. This system is supposed to catch them. It's the rehabilitation system that the assessment is about to take these people. So I'm just saying, the reason this development is expected at the time of the strategy is because the government intends to complete the work programme. [[The president calls.]] I think this underscores the fact that we are going to do so very quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u143	Madam President. It's right next to the highest. As a minister of my former duties, I would like to speak about the importance of a total benefit between the government and the labour market bodies. But I never assumed that I would get the keys. However, I feel that when it comes to tax, family, reform systems, and so forth, there is no independent political policy on the part of the government, I feel that it is the case with government. There is no meeting or conversation with the council, and it is simply waiting for the workforce to understand what they want in these matters. I might find it rather extreme in my consultation or a key delivery if you could put it that way. Of course, I'm glad that we're still working here on the promotion of a work estimate, believe it is very urgent, the current bioenergy system is totally bankrupt. But I think it's wise to be careful with the early estimate of the results of that system because we've just seen, including, we've only seen it. in reevaluation of expenses for micro-energy pensions only last year, that there has been a significant increase in the number of micro-organizations in the current system. It is unlikely that the change and turn will be as quick as there is to be, although it would certainly be pleasant if more people were to have and find opportunities and support to look into the job market. What I also miss is a clearer plan when it comes to important matters such as employment with support and special support for young people for the work and participation in the workforce. Several goals have been taken out or made considerably more hairy and less vague when it comes to such matters as the use of the Internet. increase in contracts at the labour oce for three-sided work contracts or for what has been mentioned as being supported. I cannot quickly find any goal of the highest. Minister of that kind, but maybe he can teach me if I'm wrong. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u144	A respectable president. Only the alleged keys before answering the other question, but what? A senator said that there should not be a consultation with the council, solely with the labour market partners. I've been talking about the two main points of my Ministry this year on the one side of work assessments and early issues of children and initiatives. In both of these cases, I have announced it publicly and requested nominees and have said this evening that I want a representative of the Party and the Polish here to cooperate with me. It is clear that then, too, I am ousting the authority to the members of the council I preach it to. These are two important points this year. [[Up front.]] No, no, no. Senator. Of course, it is not that although you have a conversation and cooperation with the labour market partners, it is an outdoor. That's what I'm highlighting. Then we're going to workout. Like I said, we're going to make it work this year. That's what I'm talking about. A senator came on, a tool that will need concomitantly with the work programme, not only at the employment agency, but also at the health - care system, and a work programme that itself builds up, part-time, and so forth, I think it is quite weak than it is about to make progress. We're supposed to be able to gain a success of disability, because I think it's a lot in the pipeline of people who need rehabilitation, not people who are in disability, but who are at high risk of being on their way to spiritual problems, let's say, or physically, and those people are going to need more resources and possibly some new resort that don't already exist. If there are any financial weaknesses involved in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the ability to work, it may be in these measures. In that respect, I agree with the words of a senator. [[The president calls.]] However, the resources needed to build up are not clear. I'm not necessarily sure that's just what it is. A senator mentioned, micromanagement contracts. There may be other factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u145	Madam President. I'd like to get to the top. Minister as family minister. In view of family interests, this financial program is a real disappointment. We see that an additional zero is intended for child support and an additional zero in interest. These two factors focus on the interests of a family in the country. Third, housing - related disappointments. We see in the topic field called housing support that it is the subject field that receives the greatest dollar reduction in the five years. Again, it shows a lack of ambition when it comes to housing for people in the country. I'd like an explanation from the highest. A minister of whether he supports not adding a cent to child support and interest, and whether he supports and feels fair to half the amount of money that goes into the building of rented apartments. We see that the cost of living as a young person is more burdensome today than the previous assessment of business. We can also see that the Organization of Generosity, which is now the Minister, as a matter of interest in his media, has called this financial plan for poverty and misery. Obviously, there is a wide pot broken in this regard. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: But he may agree with words of the highest degree. The minister of finance earlier today, who was very clear in his view of child reform, when in his own way spoke of child damage, only the poorest people should go to. We're going to be out of pediatrics at $22,000. per month. Does the minister find it normal to start cutting down child support on such low incomes? He also feels that it is normal for a married couple who have one child who has a 470K. ... ata montheachday, are all the child benefits gone? Is it a system that he can proudly defend in this discourse?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u146	A respectable president. First, in terms of reforms, child reforms, growth improvements, and, indeed, housing improvements, the government has proclaimed, and I told it in my prehistoric speech, that she intends to revise these reform systems with the aim of making better use of the lowest income groups as well as in part for young people, especially for housing and interest. I agree. That's even. The proposed extension of collective agreements, i.e. not quit, that work would start with the aim that these reform groups will be more useful to less earners. In this regard, better results can be obtained. I believe that the funding to those who are older earn their income, e.g. In the growth process, it is more useful to bring it within this category to those who earn less money than it will continue to benefit by getting high incomes from it. That's perfectly clear. I agree with that approach. With the housing support. Eight hundred million dollars expected. increase next year. This is part of a contract made with the labour market at the time for building in the general housing system. As a result, it is assumed that about 300 apartments will be built each year at the end of the period agreed with the labour market partners. As I spoke in my introduction, this is one of the issues that the workforce parties have formally emphasized that they should continue. One of the largest members is a building society that is exactly owned by the workforce, a building organization. There is clear evidence that the increase that goes back is even reversed. the agreements made to these parties. [[The president calls.]] There are new contracts to be made, but the importance of the parties is not exactly known. This is the answer. I'm gonna support this financial program, otherwise she'd probably not be in the council. I support it, I did it on the government and the Senate, and I will do it in the Hall of Congress as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u147	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister says that a review of the child-replacement system needs to be performed. However, this program simply keeps a roof on how much child support can be paid. It's 10.5 billion. It has also been decided to place a roof on the cost of growth reform, 4 billion. You can't change for the next five years as planned. What a sad attitude! We have here the highest. Social Affairs Minister who is willing to move numbers within this framework but has no ambition to add more money to the child-replacement system. When the Conspiracy was last in the government, we set up 100 billion dollars. During the season of child reform and child support. This here is the priority which the Conspiracy completely rejects. I'd like to come to the end, considering that the Minister of Justice is equal, to ask the highest possible question. The minister of his stand of a midwives'quarrel, which has been a significant subject. There is now a council agreement from the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson in terms of national differences to improve the interests of women's classes. It would be informative to get the minister's position on a special effort to improve the interests of women's classes in a way that would not cause some pay slips in other classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u148	A respectable president. It would be positive if we could move things so that our improved systems could be more useful to those who have less income. More lawsuits come to me, and turn to family matters, as it were. For some reason, a senator did not mention it. In a current financial program, there has been an increase in the permafrost payment and is also in the discussion and processing of how we will extend it to 12 months. It is equally important to have children and families in this country. That's very important. Then, with regard to the improved benefit of women's classes, a challenge to which we are being met as a government, how we can engage in general action to achieve it, I can inform them. I was at a meeting at Akureyri yesterday in an Assium lab where we discussed even what action the State might take to improve the interests of local women groups. [[The president calls.]] I've got a lot of ambition to do that, and I'm hoping to cooperate with it. A senator and others do that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u149	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs earlier said that the performance assessment could be established by the end of this year. He speaks against your better judgment. Today is April 11th. It is not possible during this year's lifetime to agree on the performance assessment, to take the necessary measures to the labour market, both public and public, so those with impaired ability to work may be able to work, a victim has not been negotiated. There's no time to do this, Minister speaking against better judgment. That's not what I'd like to say. It'll cost you if I remember correctly, top dog. If not, then a minister will correct me, about 6 billion off against a dollar. I think I've heard that number in the state hall the other day. If this is the right number, it's just the same number as the government is now giving up on the bank tax. And because of what? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson sits next to the highest. Then he said that the banks would return the 6 billion to consumers. He deserves an optimistic reward. I haven't heard others so optimistic since I read Red Riding Hood and the Wolf back in the day. But what can be done immediately is to cancel bank taxes and lift a crown to a dollar's loss in micropigs. The Central Party's proposal that professional income of the elderly will not deprive them of their pension income can be followed. V.E.G. Ministers can promote the approval of the government of the Central Party bill that if the government chooses to work until 73 years of age, it may be possible for the government to accept it. This action would have been adjusted for the most successful. Then there's the highest. Minister agree with the Central Party policy for those who are lazy to eliminate valuable tax from drugs. All of this can be done immediately, but do not set up a working group with an impossible task.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u150	A respectable president. Well, that's a good thing. A senator is not a social and equal minister, he says that the project is impossible, to implement a job assessment and to assist people in the rehabilitation program to get back into the labour market. It is absolutely impossible for the system to be in such a way that the rehabilitation system and what we have built up make it more than a country's disability - pensioners. It is impossible for us as a community to fail to keep people in a job market, which is certainly meant to be there and to have an active part in the workplace and in the community. Therefore, it is important to speed up this work. I'd like to read a sentence from a press release that came in contact with a financial plan, with the permission of a respectable president, just grab into the middle of the text: Then, work is beginning to develop a work programme that replaces medical disability assessments and that, at the same time, changes in the biofuel system of social security, which includes a simple, flexible, and beneficial microenergy waste system. This job is already started at the Ministry. It is important for her to be able to have conversation and cooperation with all the major parties involved in this process. This job isn't starting now, it's already started. It is part of her to have a conversation and cooperation with members of the council, representatives of stakeholders, representatives of the people who need to create part-time jobs and more. It follows an induction process that does not occur all in one night. This knows why. Senator. He did a similar job when it came to the care of the elderly. It is in these talks that we can set down and decide in what way the increase will be, how we will improve the terms of these groups. I'd like to encourage you. A senator urging his companions to appoint representatives of this group so that we can begin our work. [[The president calls.]] The subject is extremely urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u151	V.E.G. President. It's a terrible thing that the guy here is not a social minister and equal to him. If he were, any arrangements would have been taken that would have been taken since now, not in an unscrupulous future. It is not pessimism to say that a work record cannot be established at this point and at the end of the year. This is an experience that says, an experience of directing a committee for two years and working in it for three years, with exactly this assignment in hand. I know the size of the project. It won't be solved now. The budget is due for the next year in September. The government that is now sitting on this hairy side of the earth at an illegal time cannot bring it back at that time. A minister speaks against a better mind. Then let's get together on December 30. at the highest. Minister. If all of this has come together, I'll be happy to eat everything I've said here tonight. But I'm almost sure that I won't be the one who has to eat my words tonight, it's gonna be the best. Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u152	A respectable president. I am convinced that it is possible to complete a job and meet up with the way the assessment will be implemented. The process of induction will then begin, which, of course, may be taken in some step, as will be the result of this, as well as the increase in the jaws. Of course, it is quite clear that the assessment will not be made if this fine team cannot be organized because representatives refuse to include or have not already added to it. Of course, it's gray, so you just use the word, that you haven't been able to sort it yet. I still want to push 'em again. Councilmen to help me get an order in this group. If they want to increase the number of agents in him, it's okay, but I haven't heard anything. A senator wants it, that's only a question. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isafasunsson, who kindly pointed to it here. It's extremely important for this work to begin, I repeat it. This is one of the two department's focus projects this year. I'm sure this will work. I don't see things that black like that. A senator does, I just don't, because I believe that this is possible at this time, and I hope it will. A senator sees it as the year begins to pass. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u153	President. In the past, I became the workforce's subject and stress, pointing out that in a financial program, it is suggested that the work - market interaction and its personal conflicts contributed to more cases of disability in Iceland. This is in the workforce section. However, in the financial program on disability, the government's policy is to adopt a work programme that has been a bit much done here tonight. I ask: Are we really going to record microenergy assessments that have the primary objective of bringing micro-piercs back to the workforce in the same situation and initiating disability? Do we not have to start by taking the workforce through and adapting the situation there? To meet the goal of reducing the number of those who receive their first disability assessment, we need to walk very carefully to the ground so that we are not overcompressed by the basic rights of those who truly need such an assessment. Based on its aims, a new food supply system is to be introduced, which is much more complex than what is present this year and the next. I wish I could trust that its induction would go smoothly, but considering how badly the government had to bring up this financial program, I feel that such a dramatic change in policy is going well for me, especially in view of the fact that every assessment of disability is personal and specific. It is also remarkable that, together with the fundamental change in the work-research class, the reasons for the growth of micropigs are to be identified and found ways to respond to this evaluation. This same year, 2018 and 2018, should go to find out what the situation is. Maybe it wouldn't be closer, top dog. Minister, to begin by learning why the number of micropigs is growing and then going to the process of completing the assessment system? What about taking advantage of the knowledge we already have and undergoing immediate action to reduce stress by exorbitant a dollar, shortening time, and improving quality of life? Would that not be long - term savings and a fine start?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u154	A respectable president. I just want to say what I've said before tonight; it's not only a measure of individual functioning, it's also the rehabilitation system, how we assist the individuals in a wide variety of ways to get back into the labour market. That's the basic thought. It is not necessarily a work programme, because it is a job assessment and a rehabilitation system. How important it is that we put all the power we have in order to get it done by more people! A team would be formed to regulate the rehabilitation of individuals when they fell out of a workforce either for physical or spiritual reasons. That work has come quite a long way. It's been adjusted. The changes in the structure of these work performance assessments and the rehabilitation system have been made since last year and have been substantially adjusted by the concept established by the Department of Developments itself, and have been presented in open reports on these issues. Then I'd like to say it's important too, because of that. A senator entered, that this work begins. It is also important that we try to identify the reasons why microenergy recipients increase so much. Then I came to the other factor, which is my basic focus, i.e. Children's business. Children are children until they are 18 years old. We have somehow failed as a community to hold these children. I think they're going to overpower disability later. When it comes to identifying the causes of disability, it will bring into practice the current work in review of all the children's legislation. [[The president calls.]] The diagnostic work is already begun by an independent enterprise working together with the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u155	President. I thank the Minister for the answers and wish I could have a more thorough discussion on these matters, but we have so little time and so much to go over. I would like to make it a subject of government policy support policies as reflected in the financial agenda. It is extremely difficult when the chapter on goals and measures begins with the permission of a president: A universal policy on future housing support is not yet available. Then you ask yourself, " What does this volume of less than two thousand words have? ' It is now clear that lack of housing policy is a major concern for the nation, except for health matters. Yet, the government in its 132 days has not provided a trace of enough solutions for those who are in the affected areas of a housing market, just promises to look at the matter later. In particular, the tenants of this country are in a delicate position that is on top of most of the worst economic situation in the first place. So it would be interesting to hear from a minister about what this chapter is all about. Is there no action other than to examine the matter for the next five years in one of the current most urgent matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u156	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. A candidate for housing support is an enormously important factor, especially for the lowest earner, since the share of the income that goes on the cost of housing is all too high. Of course, when one sentence is taken out of the housing section that appears on several pages and is read in a talk chair without being introduced to any other aspects of it, it may sound unconcerned. There are some procedures in the area where housing is concerned. As an example, during the next few weeks, after the cooperation of a department with a camp loan fund, we will announce action, at least two packages that have been in progress, on the one hand, on the new construction of the country, which I preached immediately when I took office to go on hand, and on the first purchase of young people and on the low income. [[The president calls.]] That part is in progress and I hope you're in the weeks ahead, so my ministry has not been inexorably in these matters for the whole four months I've been in office.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u157	A respectable president. V.E.G. A social minister came up earlier and answered a question about the courage I really love, and I'm going to ask him for further answers to that question. I didn't think his answers were any more. He said he was looking at these matters, that was under him, but he gave no answers. There were no answers. I say at the top. Social Minister: Save this options. There's a free group. There is free resources, non-systemal resources, where users can enter completely free from the street, totally free, and seek help, are taken there on professional grounds. This is often the only option of a great many customers in this place. Now this is to be cleared out of the system and to create systematic resources for mental patients, in which very many people get out of the way, do not use the ministry, are not shown. And we are at the same time talking about the growth of disability, depression, anxiety, depressed mood, the risk of suicide, etc. We're talking about the very people who really need to be able to come on their own terms and seek help, chief. Minister of Social Affairs. How many hundreds of years have recently been aided by thinkers! V.E.G. A social minister was talking about keeping people in a job market. Is this not just a means of aiding people to self - survival and reaching a job market? [[The president calls.]] I want more answers, chief. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u158	A respectable president. The situation is that the Ministry of Social Affairs has a contract with the Matrix at 17 million. K. This year, 2017, 17 million 2018, and 17 million 2019. I've said that it doesn't exist on account of the Department of Social Affairs to stop paying off this contract for the Power of Mind. It is absolutely clear that it is not intended for the Ministry of Social Affairs, through the Labour Department, to abandon its support of Bravety. The change is that the Ministry of Health, and this is part of a health policy change, sets up specific groups to be in all health problems and closes mental health. What I've said is that there are a lot of things in the structure of the theory, how it's built up, how it's open, how individuals help one another with the support of third parties, which is tremendously positive. There are a lot of people who have been using it, just like that. A senator came in. Therefore, it is not intended for the Ministry of Social Affairs to reduce any amount of money related to this. Of course, the change in health issues requires that the Ministry of Social Affairs examines the ways the Bible can continue. What I said in this subject is work is about how it can be done. I've had a good conversation with a lot of people. Councilmen, as well as other members of the council. The conclusion is not that it came, but it is not the intention of the Ministry of Social Affairs to withdraw support from the Power of Mind and has never been. [[The president calls.]] The contract is still in effect between Social Affairs and the Power of Mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u159	A respectable president. I welcome this answer to the highest degree. Minister of Social Affairs. He is interested in continuing to support the courage and their resources, but more is needed. V.E.G. Clearly, the Minister of Social Affairs needs to work with the highest power. A health minister to keep up with this strategy and to ensure that it will remain with people, and the organization can continue to do its best work at the highest level. Department of Social Affairs agrees. It is essential that you search for a ministry on your own basis but that you do not need to consult a health - care reference system, just those who find it difficult to give up and seek out the ministry. These are the very people who are so hesitant about seeing a doctor. They prefer to come in on their own terms, and they can even go out, then come back later. This is a very important point in this situation. V.E.G. President. We're talking about an increase in disability. Where's the increase? [[The president calls.]] She's right there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u160	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. A senator means that there are a wide range of resources available when it comes to social matters on mental health because people are dealing with this problem, whether I or any other person. A senator is a different set of options for each individual. It's not like when you blow up your appendix, you just go to a doctor and don't care which doctor will cut you. What is suitable for each individual differs. That is why I have emphasized the importance of what the Department of Social Affairs has to do with trying to build up and supporting a wide variety of resources in these matters. A mental force is one of these projects and already gets 17 million through the Department of Social Services. It is also strengthening a mental - health aid that has open - up resources, the Akureyri, Geysi, and others offering such comparable services. Of course, this flea must be a living, powerful, free organization. [[The president calls.]] I've said that I think they're important to me. But how we can secure the future of one superintendent in a system change, we need to examine together, Congress and executives, and this is for the ministry's inspection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u161	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister must forgive me if I feel that there is a lack of political leadership in several important matters, such as when it comes to family matters, when it comes to our reformers and the tax system. I had mentioned earlier that I viewed all the main objectives or emphasis on these important issues as being put out to the labour market party, that the government simply asked their answer about what the government should do in these matters. But a minister says that it is not at all that I would be interested in hearing emphasis. A secretary of the tax system, in the reform system, and in the interaction of these two important systems, just to strengthen and support the rest of the most efficient groups in society. I think it is extremely important that a clear view of the government is not made up of that journey without clear goals toward what it should do. It is also interesting and particularly happy to see that this is a well - being complimentary work on the orcs system by raising the maximum amount of money paid. But I have also listened to the Supreme One. A minister has spoken of the prolongation of birthorlofs, and proclaimed here, if I recall correctly in a speech in the Senate hall, that he intends to put a bill before the Council even in the fall of the prolongation of birthworm for twelve months. I can't find any place in a financial program, no financing of those plans. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Am I correct in understanding that this promise is not financed in financial matters and how to plan the highest level? So a minister finances it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u162	A respectable president. Of course, that is true of the systems we use for the equation, i.e. Building systems, growth reform systems, child reform systems, and other factors make it absolutely clear that the political vision in which they are increasingly useful to more efficient groups is now a fairly clear view of the situation. Further updates on this vision will be taken, among other things, in cooperation with the labour market partners. This political view is completely clear and is in place, and it is important that more people continue to take the lead in implementing it. I think it's a good thing for politics only that we are becoming increasingly involved in weapons of cooperation to achieve greater peace of mind because we usually get further in that way. With respect to the birthworm, the rise is in here, it is expected to rise. As regards the extension, the point is expected to be discussed with the labour market members in the coming year. When the conclusion is reached, it is possible to bring a bill. On the contrary, the government has a clear plan that it's going to raise its payments, that's what we're going to say. She's going to extend her birthworm in her chosen season. That's what the place's gonna do. Hv. A senator can be sure of this: When the election begins in less than four years, a bill will be passed at the General Assembly, and we will have seen the country in it, both extending and raising the payments. And hopefully we'll also start to see another country that's even more important, and hopefully it's starting to start, i.e. how we plan to bridge the gap between maternity school and prenatal school, which is important for families and just as important to equality, as it is for children. A senator and former social and equal minister know just like the one standing here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u163	Mr. President. I really can't help thinking that this project is also being completed to the labour market partners, i.e. how to prolong the birthworm and its financing. I must ask myself: Of course, there must be a matter of responsibility in the policy of financial management is that financing is precisely guaranteed for the fundamental policy established by the government at any given time. It is quite clear that the prolongation of ororfs is a significant step, likely spending up to 4How5 billion each year if the orcs are to be taken from nine months to twelve. I really miss it, considering that a financial plan should reflect the financial borders of the state for the next five years, that this big promise is not to be expected and in fact not to be mentioned. Also, I don't see that any additional expenditures, e.g., are to be expected. improvements in child reforms or growth improvements, which would reflect some kind of reimbursement of the tax system for the benefit of the largest sector. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-11-47.u164	A respectable president. There's a lot of shit in my conversation. The senator has become an exposé. I think if we succeed in this ideal period, as the government is planning on in its co-work declaration, to raise both the pay from the maternity clinics and extend the maternity to twelve months, I think it's the most important thing that we're going to achieve it. If it starts with a conversation with the board of directors, it's a positive thing. If it starts with a conversation with the labour market party, it's a positive thing. If it starts with a conversation with someone in the community who can get there and apply it, then it's a positive thing. That's what I said in my case earlier that there's a good thing about working together and hearing the viewpoint of different people. Hv. A senator should not be so negative. What a positive attitude that is! That knows why. A senator who himself was once in charge of professional organizations is positive when they talk to each other. I'll just say again what I said earlier: The plan is during this terms, as shown in a government contract or declaration of policy, to raise and extend the birth mines, it will be done in conversation with the labour market parties, and hopefully, with the approval of the General Assembly thereafter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
