ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, transport and rural Ministers, and Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u2	Mr. President. We in this council hall feel very well for the good, and that certainly does the financial owners as well. In 2016 200 of the largest family incomes in Iceland increased by 14 billion, much more than all the rest. According to current financial statistics, the richest 1% of the population is as much money as the least 80% of them have. It's not known how much money they have in the tax industry. In his talk at the annual meeting of the Association of Professionals, the highest spoke. Prime Minister on the importance of the common people's experience of government use in a more balanced way. She also spoke of turmoil in society, incontrovertible property, and the poor standing of young people in a housing market. New wealth is coming into existence, and the cake that a fellow minister class so often speaks of is surely growing. The problem is that considering how new riches are divided is a small group that takes much of its share. While most people benefit most from their goods, the numbers of young people, children's families, older citizens, and microchip are very difficult to make. How are you planning to go to the top? Will prime minister cope with this disorder and collection of wealth in few hands? Will she promote child - welfare? Or am I going to make up for something that's historically low? ' Will she be pressured to increase the amount of donations needed for building cabb sprays and to resist tax changes that give them the highest income of three times as much as the lowest earner? In other words, the highest is going. Prime Minister, the most powerful statesman in the country, is making changes in financial programs that promote more equalizing and social harmony?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising an issue on this important matter. On the other hand, when we look at the equation in Iceland, we need to examine it on the basis of income distribution and, on the other hand, a property status. It has often been noted that Iceland's international level has a good place when it comes to earning a lot of money, but there is still good reason to be on guard. I refer to the pay development that we have seen on one side at the general market and was being discussed this week at a meeting held by the Bankors Association, which included. was covered in Icelandic companies and the pay development of managers. Of course, we also know the matter of advice. Hv. A senator asks how the person being present intends to use himself in this matter. There is evidence to suggest that on the autumn days there will be a bill that will change the arrangement of the highest government officials to ensure that they are in line with the general pay structure in the country. I hope we can get together for these changes. Thus, we would be bringing them into line with what happens in the North countries and could at the same time secure the increased equation when it comes to the public. I also said at the annual meeting of the EEA's Association of Employment that the general market managers could not refer to the economic stability of low wages in the country. Therefore, we need to open our minds to what is normal income distribution in the country. Among the programs I have set for government meetings with the labour market during May is how we want to see the distribution of income and what methods we would like to use to ensure equal income distribution, but as we have observed repeatedly in some of the economists dealing with these issues, there is an increase in prosperity, in fact, with the relatively large international equation, which is relatively large in Iceland when it comes to earning the income. Now I'm done with my time, but it was about my income. [[The president calls.]] I'll have to discuss the assets later in my reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u4	Mr. President. It simply does not help people who do not have the knife and the spoon and struggle from month to month to month to see that there is generally a higher level of income than there are in most other places. The fact is, there is an ever - increasing problem in income and property balance. I'd like to ask the highest. Once again, prime minister to the way she plans to use himself to reduce the amount of property. Hardly by promoting capital tax changes in ways that most people can protect themselves from inflation, unlike those who pay them. Then the question is, How will she meet the poorest and worst -spread group of people? Will it promote greater child development, growth reforms? Will she counteract changes in income taxation that bring them the highest, including us, three times as much profit as the lowest earner?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u5	Mr. President. If we were to talk about property balance, the budget tax was raised by 10%, i.e. by 2 percentage points, from 20% to 22%. If we examine how this tax increase spreads, it will come primarily to the highest share of the money, for that is, of course, the largest capital tax paying. That's what I'm talking about. Of course, a senator refers to a reexamination of the tax base for capital gain tax, we need to take a position on what comes out of that view. Hv. A senator refers to income groups, and it is very clear and repeatedly presented in financial discussions that there is an estimated 1 percent tax reduction on the income tax, while it is being proclaimed that consultations will be made with the labour market partners, i.e. employee, about how a tax reduction can be implemented so that it can do the most good for the earner. The financial plan provides a special box on how to do this through the personality discount system, which is in line with what the labor movement has spoken. However, it was pointed out in discussions about financial plans that it was important that there was an increased conversation on these issues, not only with the labour market partners, but also at the council, and I think that there is a legitimate criticism. [[The president calls.]] I think we're going to have to take some time to discuss how tax change will be the most efficient means of earning a lot of money. [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u6	Mr. President. Not long ago, in an interview with the reactor, the highest power said. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir that with left greens in the government were two categories of power, but this would be different to the government because there was a socialist at the counter, and there was a woman at the table. It's different. This is interesting, and these are exciting times. I understand the state of anticipation. A health minister described this interview. But what does this really mean for society and the huge work ahead of us that has to be solved? Right now, my main concern is women's classes, the ideals for the care groups, midwives, nurses, and teachers. We know that recent intervention is needed in a class of teachers. We also know that recently - trained nurses have other services, such as the stewardess'service. It's a huge deal to fix the ideals of women's classes, not just those classes of direct interest, it's just as important to society's interests so that we can begin to promote and improve our education systems, our welfare systems, etc. How vital that this matter be taken into consideration! In my opinion, showing leadership to change the ideals of women is one of the most important tasks that the prime minister is facing and can apply. It is fundamental to apply ourselves in this regard, to use the position of prime ministers, and to use themselves to promote the interests of women. The key to improving and exerting ourselves under the women's classes is that our education system becomes powerful, that we have a powerful knowledge community, a welfare community. That way we too will be a more human society. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: How will the prime minister take the lead in promoting the interests of women? What's going to be the most important focus and message. Prime Minister to enter the dress interview? Has the highest. The prime minister will discuss this important matter, this urgent matter of interest, at the highest level. Secretary of finance? If so, is not there an action plan on this matter on the part of the government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for setting up this program a very important case that targets a sexual labour market in Iceland. This was discussed at the last hearing of a legal bill on a equally paid contract that was agreed to counter the sexual pay of a company, within the institutions, but we certainly have the position that the labour market itself is sexual and the remuneration differences between the sex market and sexual education. Hv. A candidate in many parts of his inquiry asked specifically how important it is to promote health systems, to promote education, in order to improve the women's classes as well as the other. is very prominent in the health and education systems. It is fully set up in the financial programme of this government that priorities are being made in the interests of the health system. There is a tangible change of policy, I would like to say, to strengthen the health system and thus the classes where many women work. I'd like to say the same thing about the education system that's being looked forward to the future. Of course, it is the basis for future employment that we do better in our education system and invest in it. When it comes to these groups, high school teachers made a special arrangement this week. I'm glad you're here. The midwives are sitting at a bargain meeting right now. Of course, we do not know the results of that meeting. But I'd like to say that I think it's very important that we approach this whole thing, that we learn from the experience we have. It was to form a campaign to increase the wages of women's classes in the spring of 2013 in the government that I then served in. This was done in the hands of stock agreements. When we appreciate the results of that procedure, we may be able to learn much from it, but it may not have yielded the results we would have wanted to see to equalize and improve the interests of women. So I think we need to examine that methodology and that conversation is started because of that. A senator asks if this was discussed between me and the secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]] It's a conversation, and that opinion is on its way. We need to make a picture of what the city of Reykjavík has been doing through a job assessment that has been prepared to make up for the benefit of women's classes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u8	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. Prime Minister came in on a contract as I understand, where VG has the power category, like the highest power. A health minister spoke of, that certain matters, especially those related to equality, are difficult to get through the government when it comes to them. Of course, we will support the prime minister in giving these emphasis, but I thought that was the highest. Prime Ministers do not answer adequately to the importance of the government's agreements. I agree with Prime Minister, it needs to be made a complete approach. Long - term attention is needed; we need to frame exactly how we are going to nurture the women's classes, improve the ideals of teachers, midwives, nurses, and do so for a long time so that it will become permanent, learn a little from experience. That's why I'm the highest. Prime Minister to lend a hearing to the decrees made by Parliamentary Parliamentants of the Revolutionary Council to equalize the interests of the female class. We need to look long - term, and we need to do so. with the goal of strengthening the education system, strengthening the health system, strengthening the welfare system. That is why we need to put extra emphasis on women's interests. [[The president calls.]] I'm especially happy if it's the highest. The prime minister will take the lead in this regard, for there is a request for leadership. She does not come from the Ministry of Economics when it comes to women's classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u9	Mr. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree on just the emphasis that appears in a financial program, and I referred to the advanced health and education systems. Then, when it comes to what has to do with the ideal groups of women, I believe that we have to be on the program in our conversation with the labour market partners, so I have been leading in that conversation. Since the beginning of the present government, it has been on a regular basis and may rarely have been more in recent years, the conversation that has been going on between the government and the local labour market bodies. This involves social stability measures in relation to economic stability. There we have already seen the activities and other proclamations that will be relevant to both women and men of the land. And, of course, there is one of the ideals of the women's classes that will be placed on the table along with what I mentioned before in my answer to a question. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, which is just the public income distribution in the community. When talking about income distribution in the conversation, we cannot overlook the appearance of a sexual difference in pay, and it is at a salary level not only between comparable jobs but also in this sex - oriented labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u10	A respectable president. Iceland's flying industry is among the basic roads of the nation. The flight and related articles, such as tourism, account for most of the nation's currency income and carefully estimated that the aircraft industry alone represents more than 10% of the country's production and is increasing each year. The amount of money needed for flying aviators, flying navigation systems, and air traffic services has been limited, not in any way consistent with the scope of the sector or its contribution to the population. Iceland has the seventh largest air control space in the world, and a shepherd of that money is needed to cover costs. But of that profit little goes to build and sustain the air transport or to ensure the safety of the millions of passengers who travel around Icelandic airspace and airports each year. In this context, we should not forget that the rights we have in Iceland are also responsible for finding and saving, such as flying aviators. Istavia ohf is started and maintained. Which is a public society. The most exciting thing is to say that the state of airports in Iceland is extremely poor, and because of lack of money, it's headed for disaster. The safety of flight passengers should be first identified. This cannot be guaranteed by increasing air traffic, as has recently been the case since April 2. testifying. On that day, there was only minutes left before an emergency began. A passenger on the way to Cheflavík could not land there because of a runway situation and had to disappear to Eglil position and Akureyri, two of the top three airports of Keflavík, along with Reykjavík's airports. These airports are not equipped to do their job, especially because highways and airports do not survive the expected traffic, but also because equipment and traffic control are limited and not available. The fact is, there is a great need for a solution to security. Despite the scope of the aircraft industry and the huge financial interests of the state, of our rural society, and of its operators, the Icelandic government has not been the focus of flight policy. So I ask the highest. The secretary of transport and rural management... whether or not to be working on a state-of-the-air policy... and whether it has been sought for special knowledge of professionals and operators... in the shape of such policies. Secondly, I ask the highest. Ministers to have an official assessment of the state of flights that serve international and domestic flights for safety, dependability, capacity of runways, equipment, air traffic control and services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for taking this matter up in an unprepared question period. It is true that flights have grown very much as flying - related activities and were estimated to be 6◯7% of land production in the foreign assessment of some ten years ago, but would still be more than 10%. There have been a record of 1,2◯14% of land production today. There are signs that it can grow even further, including, 'Cause Iceland is the ideal place and competitiveness of the country, and it's a good thing to do that this is an ideal place to fly here, and then it can spread to other places between the West and the East, as well as a tourist stream to Iceland has grown. I'd like to argue that we've been doing quite well and that we have the word of the International Air Intelligence Agency that has come here and taken out the situation regarding the security, the flight protection, in the way we deal with these huge areas that we watch in and out. But that's not far from it. A senator that the national airports have been slid. There we can no longer stand by. Because we haven't done enough well for this class for far too long, and also because the importance of this group of languages has grown, it is absolutely essential that we set flight policies. I've already set up a job like this. And because of what? A senator asked if a specialist would be consulted, and I have even. At a meeting with a U.S.A., a member of Icelandic professional pilots, asked to cooperate with them and with other members. In the case of an incident that occurred the other day when Cheflavík was shut down because of snow, a larger barn on Eglish and Akureyri, which costs money, but it is also possible, as we have only discussed before, to use tow trucks where airplanes could be better installed on these tracks so that they could produce more. [[The president calls.]] The Ministry wrote a letter to Istavia as soon as this happened. Actually, I haven't received it yet, but I'm aware that it's already been in the Ministry. We will no doubt consider these matters much better, for there is reason to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. - Special Secretary of Transport answers. It is true that this is true, that the flight has grown immensely and cannot be forgotten that it is not only about the Icelandic airlines. About 25% of the air traffic across the Atlantic Ocean will take us through the Icelandic air space and the traffic passing through it will use our international airport as an airfield. We must not forget that the airports have to meet all the same demands as the airports we leave and go to the way they do. It is therefore very important that these fields are equipped to handle more than one or two machines. Millions of lives are at stake, and I hope we don't look at the day when we have to apologize for going down hundreds of people because there was no landing on the airport, because a plane could not be derailed, because there were no airports, there were no highways, there was no air traffic control, and there was no equipment at the airport. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u13	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, there are many things to think about when this is the case. Istavia has a fine way to cooperate with the airport authorities in Greenland because it has something to do with how we can ensure our superior flight control. There are always other people who are interested in taking care of this too, not necessarily because they can earn a lot of money from this, but rather about how you can do it the most wisely. It's certainly done so in Iceland. But there are challenges, and one of them is that others are reaching out for this. We've cooperated well with the Greenland government in the last year on how they can grow, and cooperation has been between us and Greenland. That's exactly what happened. Senator, this is not all about Icelandic airlines, I think it's well over 30 airlines that fly to the country. It's a lot bigger than just our airlines. But we're part of this international team. We've done well, but we need a flight policy in order to have a clear view of the future. [[The president calls.]] I just want to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Þorvaldsson for taking up this matter here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u14	A respectable president. In 2010 it was adopted with all the votes for Iceland's decision to establish a legal legal position for the protection of expression and information freedom. The same year, in fact, we were in the first place on a list called the Šfredom of press index◯, which is published by ▪Reporters Without Borders, to be found in the same list. Today we're in 13th place, down three places from last year's when we were in first place. Things have gotten worse. It is specifically stated in the discussion of these fine organizations that we have agreed to this council resolution in 2010. It is also stated that since 2012 conditions have worsened because of the deterioration of communication between the media and the authorities. There are a number of examples that could be stated here, at least from the moment I first stepped to the council in 2013, but I'm sure that everyone in this room and all the viewers can imagine some examples of how when government communications with the media in Iceland were a disgrace, I want to say, and below all the caves. That is why if we are going to achieve this goal of becoming the best source of light and of those dealing with Icelandic politics, we need to take action. Now I know that when the IMMI team worked at their time, there were some delays in his work. In the end, a former senator, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, in time, did not appear from the government. Now I understand that a team is back at work where just a former senator, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, is also very positive. But I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, whatever it is that it may be. When can we look back at the time when we can get some bills here that are designed for us to achieve the high - important goals that we set out to do eight years ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up the matter. It is true that in 2010 the interpretation of freedom of expression was adopted in this hall. The case was then referred to me as minister of education and culture. And, in fact, I would like to note that immediately in the late 2011 public media laws, the effects of this council-sense proposal were made directly out of the synopsis, including the Holy See. for the protection of sources who had not been in Icelandic printing. The effect of the conclusion, in turn, was to be said to be taken into consideration. It is true, however, that the work that has been done has not been sufficiently required. However, I would like to say that a group on these matters worked during the season of the convention in 2013-2016, with representatives of a variety of advisers led by the then Persian Secretary - General, if I recall correctly. Now I have decided to take the work that then lay ahead of me and to appoint the group as a boy. A senator, led by Professor Eiríkur Jónsson, who is specialized in freedom of expression. This committee is to review the number of laws produced by the beginners who served here during the season of the July 20133/42016. Under these are bills of mischievous, hater propaganda, data storage and host's responsibility as well as the current permission to use the leading barrier to expression, such as in the form of a ban. The committee should also consider suggestions on freedom of expression, as well as the obligation of public employees to express themselves about the offenses they become aware of at work. As I mentioned, it is Eiríkur Jónsson, a lawyer and professor who conducts the job, and Birgitta Jónsdóttir, who knows these matters well and who is the director of the IMMI Institute, is appointed to this committee by me as prime minister. There are also representatives of Iceland's Journal Society and Justice, Department of Economics and Economics and Education and Culture, because this is all under the department. When we talk, for example. Of reproach and other such things are heard by the Ministry of Justice. [[The president calls.]] Then, too, there is Sigríður, the daughter of Rut, the Júlíusdóttir court attorney, and Páll the son of Þórhallsson, of the Ministry of Presidency. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I'll find out in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u16	A respectable president. You'd have just wanted to hear more about the answer. What I'm particularly wondering is how much time this has taken. Though I think, one of the few Icelanders, is not virtue, but vice, yet I must say, I am rather impatient with this matter. In fact, freedom of expression is not taken very seriously in Iceland. We tend to assume that everything is best here, so you look at legislation, and it's often a joke, if not a shame. I'd like to know, on the other hand, when we can look forward to seeing those bills come forward and, secondly, what it is, if the highest. A minister is conscious of that which is contrary to it. These are all important matters, and they need careful attention now. It's not rocket science, it's a little simpler, actually, if that's the case. [[The president calls.]] What's taking so long? What makes this so extensive in relation to all the work that has already taken place, since it is vast?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u17	Mr. President. Yeah, what's taking so long? It's hard for me to answer that. It's been a lot of interest in me in politics for a long time, and when I went through the work that had already been done, as I mentioned, both during the season of 2009-2013 and in 2013-2016, it was my conclusion, and I thought it would only be appropriate for this group to have a relative time limit. I'm going to hope it works, i.e. He's due in two stages, by October 1st. and then on March 1, 2019. So in the other stages, I look forward to covering current information laws. It has been noted earlier at the council that I believe that there is good reason for me to review the 2012 Information Act and to agree with the new Enlightenment Act, which this world is changing very rapidly and we have seen that we have been drawn back. I have referred to a picture of Norway as a model when it comes to the publication of public information. So this is my time frame. I think there's very good evidence, so it should be realistic, but then I'm going to do very fast, I'm not going to promise you this is going to happen, but it's at least the time frame that's been set. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u18	A respectable president. There's a segregation policy at the government's offer. Government policy is to understand that people, older people of this land, are sick. It asks that if these individuals get married or live together, they lose 60,000 dollars. every month, each subject, 120,000 K. Total 80,000. by tax. Let us see just what that means in human language. That means these people are being taxed, sick, injured, old people, extra 20%. Bring it over to the other side. All council members. What would be the position of a general who would receive the same? Yeah, we're talking about $250,000. extra tax, 500,000 bucks. in the case of couples with the same income, 300,000 k. By taxes. Do you think we could put it in the law? I say, "Why is this a people thing? " How can we protect it against the United Nations Convention of Human Rights, the Constitution, and what we have just legalized, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Infirm People? It is not enough for those who are in pensions to be impaired because of marriage; it is also for marriage to their children, individuals, whether they are disabled persons, married couples, pensioners. I know of seniors who have a disabled person at home; they are all disabled. That takes 180,000 bucks. Why do we allow this to continue? I ask the prime minister: Is she going to do something about it right away? Or does she feel that it is normal to take one group out and judge it in this way? I also ask in this context: How does this pass the constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson son of this inquiry, which attracts the failings of married couples or partners among the elderly and the desperate pensioners. These were approved changes to the social security system in 2016. Among the differences in the elderly was that those who were living together or married received relative compensation compared to those who lived alone. The argument, with it in its time, was that the most important thing was to support those who would be alone, the forwarding of it was heavier than that of others. Yet, it was protested, including of the ones standing here. These laws were so accepted. They were the results of a group of workers who had worked for quite a while, with the desperate reporting in the final meters of that work, but representatives of the older citizens took part in achieving the agreement that was based on this bill. So we're going to review the story for what it was. A senator bases his inquiries on. Today, representatives of the older EU have requested that these changes made on the social security system, but they certainly came to the point where they were preparing them in their time, should be specifically evaluated for how they have been exposed to hardworking individuals in the midst of the elderly. That job's on. Social Affairs is controlling that job. He's asked for my claims. from the staff of prime minister, but I know that the older citizen's Union will have three representatives in that group. What the national relationship puts first is to examine especially the most lucrative groups among the elderly. Hv. A senator also mentions the microenergy pensioner and is likely to refer to the domestic work that is thus impaired by the way in which a couple live. Hv. A senator knows that this work was never completed at the time of 2016. There was disagreement on the results on the microenergy pensioner. [[The president calls.]] Now they're sitting at the table again. I have strong hopes that we can get ourselves together, politicians, and the micro-energy pensioners in the United States and Developmental Fund, of acceptable changes in the system for the benefit of micro-life recipients. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. But I ask her again, " How is it going to be, and how can this be defended against the Constitution? ' Is it not forbidden to discriminate? I say, why one more committee? It's not that complicated. Let's put this in the pay contracts. 20% if you live together, you're down. 20% for both of you if you want to get married. Let's get this into salary negotiations. The exact same is true of older citizens and disability. There are no other laws, except the minor violations of human rights. It's not that complicated. We're supposed to sit at exactly the same table as everybody else. If not, there is no such thing as a committee. It just takes our will in here to change this, I know it. Because I have no faith that we in this room, 63 members of Congress, would agree that we would be reduced by 20% of our wages just for living with our mate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-26-56.u21	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks why another committee? That's because of what I said before; in my time, these cases were held by the representatives of all classes, with representatives of the senior citizens, with micro-managers, with representatives of the labour market. No conclusion was made on the matter of microenergy pensioners. The Micro-Communication Act and Developmental Help have directly declared that they believe it is very important that certain system modifications be made to the system we live in today's world, that it will be simplified, that the reform groups will be reviewed. I myself have said I would have wanted that group to have been appointed, to have walked faster to appoint that group. It took time to appoint that group, but it has now been appointed. The first meeting is being announced. I stress that this group is working fast because it's a case that's not supposed to be waiting. Of course, we should try to reach some conclusion as to what the system itself looks like. I don't believe everyone else is. Senators agree on this. I know why. A senator himself serves on the committee as a representative of the council. I'm counting on you in this group, that you're gonna push this thing fast and definitely keep pushing it. [[The president calls.]]
