ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u1	Since the last meeting for a committee week, two former members of the Parliament have died, actually close political armies and party members, Sverrir the son of Hermannsson and Guðjón Arnar Kristjánsson. They'll be remembered. Sverrir Hermannsson, former council member, minister, and president of the lower branch of the Generals, died in the nursing home of March 12th, 88 years of age. Sverrir, the son of Hermannsson, was born in Svalbard, in Örvík 26, 1930. His parents were Hermann the son of Hermannsson, who was there to care for, and his wife, Salóme Rannveig, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, the housewife. About the age of four, he moved to Isafjörður with his parents. In 1951, Sverrir completed a class test from Akureyri High School, and Kandidat was tested in commercial science in 1955. In high school, Sverrir acted, was president of Vaka, the deity-crepiting students, and sat in the student council. He was president of the Central Society of Reykjavík for one year, 1957,1958. For a decade and a half, after Sverrir's education and in order to settle down at the General Assembly, he worked with employers first, but later with the city trade partner of Reykjavík for four years and finally as the European Commission of the Icelandic traders for 15 years. For two years, in 1960,1962, he was a representative of the newspaper edition Science. Together with these duties, Sverrir began his building business with his brothers and was the chairman of their fishing society, Ashurvík. It became clear early that Sverrir's mind was coming to the council. He put second place on the Self - Opportunity list in the Republic of the East in 1963 and again in 1967 and served several times as a deputy. Before his election in 1971, he won the 1st place and served continuously for the Easterns to 1988. After the 1974 election, Sverrir became the second two executive directors of the government and later director, until he became Minister of Industrial Services of 1983. Two years later, in the fall of 1985, he became a minister of education, making his office over 1987 elections. Sverrir was an active senator who cared well for his voters. After the fall election of 1979, Sverrir was elected the president of the lower branch of the General Assembly and found himself so smooth and optimistic about the President's chair that he was sitting here for four years, even though he was in a position of government and would not withdraw as such. He sat on most of the council committees on professional matters, but last of the General Commission. He was deeply involved in the work of the Council of Northern America in 1975,1983. A year after his disappearance from the government, Sverrir was appointed president of the Bank of the Lands, leaving them to be members of Congress. The years of Sverrir in the Lands Bank were economic and commercial metabolic times. He himself became very critical of the fishing plan, and after ten years he left behind in the bank, he formed a new category, the liberal category, that proclaimed changes in the fishing policy. He became the first president of the Party and elected Councilman of the Smokelands in 1999. He was then sitting in the council for a season, until the spring of 2003. At that time, he thought it was enough, and he retired. He spent 21 years at the General Assembly, 27 of the total. In the midst of Sverrir Hermannsson's son, it was not uncommon for the flames to prevail. He always used many words and deeds, had unusual rich speech, was clear, and was express in speech, temper, and large. In daily relations here at the General Assembly, Sverrir was warm, clean, and loyal. There are many events in Sveris's Sverrir, but he was not least a man of the word, fluent in his speech, widely read in Icelandic literature, and was quoted from them at all times on a speedy floor. He was a good speaker, so to speak, a clean list. Sverrir Hermannsson will become one of those he met in the official professions of a memorable man, whether opinions were held together or not. He bore himself constantly, listened to him, and maintained his dignity until the last days. The Guðjón of Arnar Kristjánsson, former general and president of the liberal Party, died on the move. Saturday, at the National Hospital's Center of Health at the age of 74, after a severe illness. On July 5, 1944, Guðjón Arnar Kristjánsson was born in Isafjörður. His parents were Kristján Guðjónsson, a carpenter, and his wife, Jóhanna Jakobsdóttir's daughter, a housewife. The Guðjón Arnar graduated from the Masters' class at Isafa 1965 and a fishing test from the Centers School in Reykjavík a year later. He was a young sailor, a sailor, a cook, and a motorman from 15 years of age and later a pilot and a captain, until 1997. Arnar's godhood led young members in the ranks of his class, was president of the Byl Society of Control and Management, in 1975,1984, and president of the National Farmer and Fishing Union of the Iceland of 1983, 197999. At the same time, it had to sit in various committees and advisers, such as the Marine Environment Council of the Seaway and the Marine Programme. He was at the head of Fishing Fund, the School for Training in Reykjavík, in the management of Iceland's Fishing Society, and in the management of a sailor's emergency school, and for a time, he was the vice - fish director. He always wrote extensively on the subjects of seafaring and sailors in particular. At the same time, in the sailors'organization, Guðjón Arnar became involved in politics and sat at the General Assembly seven times as a reserve for the Independence Party in 1991-1995. However, because of his disagreement on the seabed, he divorced his party, established by another liberal party, and was elected by his 1999 senator, first for the Western Precinct but later the Northwestern District. He spent ten years at the General Assembly as a nobleman, up to 2009, but a total of 18, if all, are counted. He was chairman of the Free-of-the-Mate of the 2003s coven,210. He spent most of his career on a fishing or transportation committee, but he also served as a temporary member of a budget board and participated in the Western American Council's work over the last few years here. Arnar's Guðjón was an early display of industriousness and zeal, one of the most successful tug - ship managers in the country, and known for its prowess and zeal on board their ships. He enjoyed social work and was a young man chosen to lead the sailors'organization. He was guarding their rights in considerable time of change, including theirs. ... inthetranslationofthequaculture. On that system, he was critical, and this primarily led to active political activity. It was about Guðjón Arnar here at the council. He was trapped, especially numbers cops, and he put himself in the game. But the tugship was easy to cooperate with, cheerful, and willing to accept. He was a perfect man and a man of integrity, and always put forth good works. I pray the world to remember Sverrir the son of Hermannsson and the Guðjón of Arnar, the son of Kristjánsson, by rising from her seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u2	Borist has a letter from the Goddess of Brjánsson Brennson, 6th. Witchest. "that he will not be able to do any congregational work in the near future. So it's requested today that Jónína Björg Magnúsdóttir be seated at the General Assembly, 2nd. 1 strategist on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued an election letter for Jónína Björg Magnúsdóttir. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u3	Mr. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. A board of directors and surveillance committee has gathered to review Johna Jónína Björg's Magnúsdóttir from the National Committee. It was consistent with the Commission's conclusion not to make comments to the theme letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u4	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u5	There's a letter from Smári Mccarthy and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson that says they can't do Congress next time. So today, at the General Assembly, the Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir and Pawel Bartoszek, are seated. Pawel Bartoszek has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again. Eymarsdóttir Álfmarsdótir and Jónína Björg Magnúsdóttir have already been investigated and accepted, but they have not taken their place in the World Council before, so it is necessary to sign a marriage vow to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u6	Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir and Jónína Björg Magnúsdóttir have signed their commitment to the Constitution and are welcomed to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u7	Borist has a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture where request is made to provide a written answer for the application of the letter. 211, college business, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 328, through the influx of foreign ventures, from Seystein, Sæmundsson. Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 263, about the cost of health care for foreign tourists, from Birgir Thornarson's Þórarinsson. There have been two letters from the social and equal minister asking for an appointment to give written answers to panel requests. 305, on sale of the best holdings of the apartment loans, from Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, andsk. 288, for the supply of social facilities, from Alex B. Stefánsson. Borist has received a letter from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gritary minister asking for a written answer. 336, on food production in Iceland, from Pétursson Ingi. Borist has a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 304, about the bases on Mount Straumnes, from Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney Magnúsdotir. Finally, a letter from a foreign minister asking for every request was received in order to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 237, for import of raw and unbound foods from Bjarni Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u8	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Economics that it is impossible to propose to the General for a resolution of a financial plan until April 4th. So tomorrow's meeting will not be held, as expected, and a work plan would be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u9	To answer, health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, environmental and resource ministers and justice ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u10	Mr. President. I'm going to have a word with the Minister on communication. It is known that during a certain stage of development, children try out limits to their parents, use tacts, threats, tears, depending on the occasion, and are pressured by their parents to display mildness and to limit lines to what their child, home, and environment are best at each time. Now an independent party is acting a little like a child to the left green. Instead of replacing the trust of a trusted justice minister, he forces left green to eat down his former position on the minister's office, otherwise an entire government is in an upset state. He got away with it and he'll be on the track. There are many indications, especially the resolution of the Independence Party. In fact, in their resolution, by permission of the president, the class says: ▪ It is important to focus on a wide range of management forms in health care, with the aim of increasing access, services, efficiency and efficiency, with emphasis on clear quality requirements. Healthcare professionals must be able to pursue their own business. V.E.G. By permission of the president, the minister took on a major initiative in the Prime Minister's debate: We are saving the health, education, and transportation system from the long - term neglect and greed of the money forces in the country. Based on a number of VG's comments, it is clear that the two classes have a very different view of this rescue mission. Therefore, I ask a minister: Does she feel that a different vision will make it difficult for her in the reorganization that awaits her and that both classes have talked about? Second, can she confirm that there will be no more privatization on her watch? It's going to be the best. Minister of the steadfast parent who draws clear boundaries or will continue to be driven away, as in the vote on distrust?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question and especially the illustration because I think it's good. I think it may be my best preparation to become a politician to be a mother of four children. Just because of what happened. A senator runs around here. The current health minister's office and will perform it in accordance with the government declaration and in accordance with what the above words have fallen primarily on the structure of the public health system. I view it as our most important and, indeed, completely in accordance with the indications that we are receiving now, to be made up of a state reexamination, of the unremarkable purchase of health care services that reflect the conclusions we now have after this experiment that I want to call so much, and of the more limited policy in the category. I'm going to stay here so far as I can continue to keep my control of the public health system and aim for a more targeted outside of the medical system. I think there's a demand for it. I've spoken to all members of the council in these matters. First thing. I have arranged for a member of the Parliament to consult with a representative of all members of the council to advise me, as well as a body of Congress, on a vision of health future. I believe the council agrees with me that it is important to ensure a common view of the future health system, which is primarily guided, regardless of the economy and the habitat. That's my job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u12	Mr. President. In itself, it is a pleasure to have a full share. The minister leads the National Conference on Independence Party to the ocean. She will then have to live up to it and will not be able to rely on her meeting for the future, as she says about it. Because how's the highest plan? The Minister, in any case, working with a group that proclaims in other national meetings just right starving policy and more cuts in the public system? That's what I said. Ministers, as well as in the above - mentioned debate, need clear political will, strength, and courage. I trust then that a minister will stand up and come up here now and tell the Independence Party: Set aside this national meetings resolution, and it will be started first when I'm stepped out of the court of health care ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u13	A respectable president. I just want to share this view with the United States of Congress that it will be a long time before I step out of the court of the health minister, and I'll be there for a while. On the other hand, the light I have in my Ministry is not a guide that is the result of the meetings of individual categories, whether of my colleagues or of others. The guide I have is actually a collaborator of the Party Declaration. That's what I'm holding, and I'm counting on the future. It will be a challenge to get a common tone at the council on a common health policy. And it'll definitely be more complicated to have a donation than the individual domestic meetings of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u14	A respectable president. Since 1985 the Ministry of Health has reduced the number of medical beds intended for the treatment of drug and alcohol abuse patients from 265 to 62. This is a 400,900,000 decrease during this period, while the need has never been greater for entry and help to this group of people. The fact is, as long as 500 to 1,600 Icelanders, alcoholics, and drug addicts wait for relief and death. They're gonna die on this waiting list. We can compare it to that, chief. President, to avoid going to the emergency room because they're supposed to wait outside, and they can just die. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: Is it acceptable for us to be in a conversation while we have to take action, while we have to step in, in view of the fact that large amounts of money are not being asked for? We are talking about beans in comparison with the serious issue of life when we cannot get in and help our people who need it more than anything else. V.E.G. Health Minister: What are you doing for these people?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the conversation. In her inquiry, she asks if it is appropriate to have a conversation. It's our job to be on it, and that's why we ask. Probably because of the appropriate time for us to discuss matters at the council. Most important of all that we are doing in the field of the European Commission is getting mental - health policy fully involved. Alcohol and drug abuse are mental health problems. We need to focus more on prevention than we have ever done. We need to recognize changes in society's vision, we need to be able to offer treatments that work in close surroundings. There is an increased emphasis on such solutions in alcohol and alcohol prevention in many areas, i.e. that people who have such problems live, not in voids, but in families and environments. The problem is complex and is also affecting the environment. International studies suggest that more bad experiences as a child then affect the development of both health and social problems later in life. This has become a subject for both health care professionals, but especially for mental - health workers, both in hospitals and in health care. Hv. A senator asks me what I'm doing about this. This case will not be solved by contributions to one of the parties. I'm sorry. It would be a simple matter. We need to look at this as a complicated matter, complicated for society such as ours to deal with, and we should have the courage to examine it in all health laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u16	A respectable president. I have to say, I feel very sad about this no answer that I received. Actually, it was kind of a twist at the highest. Health Minister because I'm not asking for a special conversation just with her, I'm asking for answers to the question of what to do now. First of all, the claim that this is primarily a mental health problem, that is just wrong. And second, there is something special to believe that it would not be important to provide funds where help is found, i.e. Vogi, a hospital with U.S.A.'s work, is the expert service, knowledge, and education that has been linked to the Land Hospital of University, and has accomplished amazing work and efficiency in this seminary. I'm waiting for the highest. The health secretary to answer questions with other than what I consider to be outback - and no answer. I'm kind of tired of standing here in unsubstantiated queries and coming back with no answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u17	A respectable president. I'm sorry if it happened. A senator is sick of the Senate work, but it wasn't my meaning to be here with outbacks at all, but I would like to try to explain the complexity of the subject. [[That wasn't my word.]] It doesn't concern just one person at this point. Then I'd also like to mention that the changes I mentioned in my previous response have an effect on alcohol and drug therapy in a wide range of ways. For instance, more and more attention is being given to walking services than to admission, and that is something that we see works well for many. Therefore, we need to look for ways that may have been used more in the past are not suitable for all; there is not one size that suits all. It must have a wide - scale view of what is best, and of course it needs to be financed, and it needs to be done in the budget of each year, that is the setting we use to finance a unique resource. [[The president calls.]] I expect we'll have that discussion when we talk about it later this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u18	Mr. President. During the recent arms council, there was a great concern over customs agreements made with the EU and on May 1. The Parliament adopted a strong decision requiring that a contract with the EU be canceled. Farmers require the government to take office with domestic food production and to strengthen the protection of the Icelandic agricultural sector. This demand is legitimate, as agriculture is a very important industry in Iceland, secure food security, produce high quality products, and provide a number of people with jobs all over the country. All the countries protect their agriculture, it's not some special thing. Speak to the highest. Agricultural minister at the agricultural council was disappointed, and it has to be said at the moment, and unfortunately, there was not a powerful U.S. legislature. Ministers view it as an opportunity for agriculture to include the EU. to move here to the country 610 tons of tax free cheese at the same time only 50 tons of farmers are allowed to move to the EU. Farmers don't recognize these opportunities. The agreement is consistent and does not reflect the size of markets or the competitiveness of Icelandic agriculture in the EU. Also, it is not to be forgotten that our biggest and best market, Britain, will not be included in this contract, now that the British are leaving the European Union. Asking to cancel the EU contract is valid and normal, especially in view of the fact that it is a smiling ground with EU discharges. So I want to ask the highest. Agricultural Minister: What's his position on getting rid of the tax agreements with the EU? Will a minister take advantage of the surrender of the contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u19	A respectable president. Here we go. A senator on the performance of agrienvironmental ministers on the basis of a talk presented at the beginning of a arms assembly, which is certainly open in various ways. Clearly, the Senator is very sure of his fault, and he has quite a few solutions when discussing how farmers should get confidence in government. I got it. I got it. A senator to help us see what would be like if Iceland would monopolize the agreement that the current government has concluded and will have to complete. It rightly applies to May 1 of this year, corresponding to the age of three. In case of a moment. A member of the U.S. government feels that dealing with foreign governments should be a way to determine how international commitments are respected, I simply don't offer in that government, i.e. if there is. A senator is offering it. To that end, I answer that question by saying that the Icelandic government is in charge of the agreements made with foreign governments. It would be irresponsible, but until there is another solution in the field of vision, I'd like to talk to you about it. A senator on how he visualizes this landscape.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u20	Mr. President. A Senate has concluded, as I said about breaking up this contract, and that is a valid reason. There's nothing wrong with sitting down with the European Union and saying that there's a smiling premise here, which they certainly are, including What I mentioned about the British leaving the European Union. I must say, Mr. President, I simply don't know what has happened to the government party, Independence Party and Superintendent, when it comes to the affairs of Icelandic agriculture. The decision made by the advance party is made that it is a matter of ensuring the fair working conditions of agriculture, and what do they do? Yes, as usual, say one thing but do another and increase the import of agricultural products to provide the Icelandic farmers with a reasonable working condition. The independent group then talks about maintaining the strength of the Icelandic agricultural sector; this is what it intends to do by increasing the import of EU agricultural products. There are reverses in this whole thing from A to O, and they all hit record. If these are the so - called opportunities for farmers, Mr. President, then these groups are just out playing golf while the ice burns.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u21	A respectable president. The question now is, What kind of light is burning? I'm gonna point my head. A senator claims that the current chairman of the Middle Party was prime minister at the time of that same contract, that is now no more complicated than that. When it comes to the fact that the British have left the European Union, I do not know better than they do not have any agreements between the British and the European Union. Likewise is the case between two. A senator that here flows imported toll free meat on the basis of these customs agreements. In 2017, Icelanders moved in 3,700 tons of beef, pork, and poultry. The toll deal was terrible. A senator, when completed in 2021, speaks of the same meats for a thousand tons less than we are importing in 2017. I believe there are several ways in which modern agriculture, certainly by government, can work from this situation with ease, but first, it is true that farmers are engaged as other export workers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u22	A respectable president. During the days, I sent a written inquiry to three Ministers to follow up a report written by a staff and distributed at the Council of 145th, for changes in drug chemistry. There is one suggestion that minor drug abuse does not have a criminal record. There can be a lot of trouble for people who commit minor drug abuse to the fact that they have a criminal record. They get in the way of people who work and live, and these things need to be taken care of. Of course, the staff came to the same conclusion as I think most people, or as good as anyone who looks at this matter. I'm sending a request to the highest level. Minister of Justice to see if the preparation for a regular change would begin, on the way that minor drug offenses would not have a criminal record. V.E.G. The minister answered that according to law No. 88/2008, for the treatment of criminal cases, the D.A. should keep a record and determine what it really is so that this Minister of Justice has nothing to do with it, but with the district attorney. The delegates to the Commission go through a minister who had contact with the district attorney to ask if the person had received this report from the Ministry of Health. It wasn't that way. The Minister of Justice continues the report to the district attorney. It's good and blessed, but what I feel is missing in this answer, and I'm surprised that there's no one in the report at all. Minister of Justice. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice in the light of his superior court: What is the position of the Minister of Justice to see if a minor crime is to be committed? Second, is the minister of justice not prepared to use himself in any way to see that this transformation takes place?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u23	A respectable president. Yes, it was a long and slightly complicated approach to this inquiry, but it is true and correct. This request suggests a report made by the Department of Health at the time and may have been reasonable that it had been formally sent to the Ministry of Justice, which I understand has not been made, at least to the point of presenting this information, the reporting, and its findings to the prosecutor. This is shown in an answer to why. As a result, a senator from me who follows that the rules are such that it is the State Attorney himself who sets the rules of criminal records and that it is all part of a criminal record. However, in this regard, I would like to mention that it may be sobering to the attorney - the attorney general should certainly be independent in his work when it comes to the prosecution, but it is not the case here, but it is about a criminal record - whether many others would be more suitable in the Regulation text when it comes to specific matters, including any offense that goes into a criminal record. In fact, my opinion is that every crime has a record. It's a minor offense. Senator. So it's just that the record shows that they're minor. The same is true of all types of violations against traffic laws and similar practices. So that I will answer the question from my viewpoint, I believe now that if it be found in another table, and be judged, it shall not be found in the record. Then there may be another matter that we have discussed at times, and that is what information is revealed from a criminal record.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u24	A respectable president. I am so disappointed in that answer. Somehow I was in a child's position that all of us who have considered this matter agree that we should not place minor drug abuses on the record. I think it's a certain turnaround in view of the speech I've heard at least of the highest levels of my class. Minister, maybe especially the SUS. But it's also a problem of the highest degree. Minister of Justice himself. Now there is a natural difference between the criminal record and the information that the police have and collect on the facts. I just have to admit, a respectable president, that this answer surprises me so much, to the highest level. Minister of Justice prefers to have more information on minor criminal crimes, that I am not quite sure exactly what to ask. I'm a little shocked. I have to say right now. But then I can just ask, "Why? Why on earth would we want it to be that way? I feel that this is a complete reversal from all the debates and discussions that have taken place on drugs for a few years now. I'm really sorry about this. I kind of have to encourage the highest. Minister to do as little as possible in this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u25	A respectable president. I'm not sure that the Minister of Justice needs to do anything if his expectations persist. On the other hand, I think the question is. A senator must ask himself and want to know the answer, and then the lawgiver's main concern, not the minister in particular, is, What fractions are minor? What are the minor crimes of drug abuse? What are they like? There may be traffic laws, which have been defined in particular as to the minor fines involved. There may be grounds for simplifying every project, that such violations may not enter a criminal record. But I think the question must depend on what fraction it is that is minor. And why only a drug offense? If we now agree on which minor offenses are involved, can't we look at another sort of offense? A small amount of theft or minor violence? I think the principle has to be that if it is judged and punished by men, a criminal record is involved. [[The president calls.]] Then we have the other question, the general public record of criminal record. [[The president calls.]] There are rules against which I insist that there is good reason for the Lawgiver to discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. A minister is truly happy to have become the vice president of the Independence Party. I know it's a job that's grown and that she wishes well for it, at least within the modest limits. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I was going to ask the Minister to come charges. I state that I do not declare impatient or impatient, nor do I encourage ministers to promote this tax as soon as possible because I confess that I do not think he is a very good idea. What is this other than a tax increase? It is a sign of time in the globalization that from the afternoon before Friday, Polish reserves can fly to their hometown with Hungarian airlines. In fact, this will be the fifth town to be flew to Poland, which is a greatly improved place for the countless Polish - born Icelanders who live in Iceland. This is an international flight for many Icelanders. These changes during recent years are very positive and examples of what happens when special interests and patents are replaced by open markets and free competition. The next summer, e.g. Smoking can choose to fly to 87 different destinations. What an amazing quality of life! Clearly, return costs will increase and reduce the quality of life. The number of flights, flights, and flights is reduced. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister: Is it a negative consequence of the coming charges in her mind that animals must fly, that flights are reduced, or that they are a little slow? Or is that a positive result? Is it her goal to be able to direct access to the land in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u27	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for your good-bye. In the government covenant, we say, with the permission of the president: ▪... other means of currency [will] be investigated in consultation with the article, including the possibility of coming or leaving the charge. I was enjoying the question because I was not being impatient or encouraging myself. That's a change of pace. It was a little different than I expected, and it was fun. What we're doing right now is compiling existing data. Of course, this matter has come into the council before, but much has changed since then; what we are doing is doing that analysis. How does 500 C.E. affect you? Exfoliation or 1,000 francs. Ejaculation, or 1,500 francs. Aerosolisation, low-cost airlines? We're working with the idea, so this applies when we get to the country and not - I can only remember the English word on the flight when people are on the transition. [[Up front.]] However, such a price may have an effect on the flying industry that it affects competitiveness. This is what we're doing. The effect of this, the price form, is to be found how this will affect the cost of flying. And the application of this also counts. Whether this is to be at rush hour or year has been discussed. It's just a job that's left. Despite everything, it's a big deal. I'm not going to do anything unless we totally know what we're doing. There's a reason why this has taken time, and it's easy to say that it's not a big deal to charge charges, but it's complicated, and the distribution of it really matters, which is the goal. I'll get in on it better in a second answer. Now I remember a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u28	I thank the minister for the first part of my reply, but my question was, exactly, to reduce the number of tourists coming here. Actually, I'm not necessarily sure that's a great idea. Every man leaves a house and goes home. The more flights to Iceland, the more potential Icelanders have to go abroad. What was presented as the basis for the last term was based on, for example. to lower the general level of the cost tax, not to pay for this fee, but to raise the cost of stay, i.e. A hotel tax. I'm wondering why, in the grave of the Minister, the application here would feel suggested, to reduce some amount of expenses, is better, e.g. for Iceland's people and Iceland's citizens, but the simple proposal to level the value tax and not to pay special fees to airlines and airline tickets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u29	Mr. President. The goal of arriving was not to reduce the number of tourists or to contribute to their reduction. We simply have the task of implementing some form of payment that will contribute to the building and projects involved in bringing many tourists to the country. We know this discussion. This has taken many years, and here is this way in the Treaty, where plans for an increase in worth tax increase are put aside, investigating the possibility of coming or leaving fees. That's why I'm working on it. I'm in my heart, that we should be with that which is most available, and with one step, and rather with less. However, the final analysis was missing of its effect. That's why we're looking into it now. And there was no more part of it or staging for continuing with one worth tax level. That's why we're looking at redundant charges. I say again and again that I have no experience but that everyone wants to put a dot behind this pay talk, and I hope that we will succeed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u30	Mr. President. I direct my inquiry to the vice president of the Independence Party, but at the same time, I congratulate her. During this national meeting of the Independence Party, there was a very large political report. The class resolution says, with permission of the president: ▪ In 2016, official expenditures of 45% of the EU's gross productions were completed. The conclusion goes on to say: It should be delayed that the government's expenses will not exceed 35% of land production. What do these figures mean, the Excellency of Congress? Cutting down public expenses by 10 percentages of land production, as the Independence Party now indicates, will result in a cut-down of 260 billion dollars. The second leadership class in this government wants to cut down the official service of some 260 billion dollars. Over the years at the same time as this class, and indeed the left green also, repeatedly tells the nation that this is to attack the vast infrastructure, education, and the rescue process of the medical system. However, here it is being proclaimed a bloody cut of such magnitude that I have never seen anything like it, not even when we were working out of the collapse. So I'd like to ask the leader of this class and minister of innovation, "Where will the cutting land land?" Which one of you hospitals are closing? What can be said about our schools? What salary will you pay? Nurses? Teacher? Officers? How will this bloody cuts benefit the elderly living on and below the poverty line or the 6 thousand children living in poverty in our community? You just have to answer this right here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. In all of this, it is to say that at the Independence Party's National Conference, over a thousand people are meeting for certain ideologies. The idea of my mind is that we try to increase the cake, and we spend less time discussing how to divide it because if we look at it too much, but not growing it, we'll have trouble dividing it. This percentage of GDP in public expenses is some of the aims to be expected. Everything else in independence party resolution is about making an Icelandic community stronger and better, and we all know that we do it through a good and powerful educational system, a good health system that is open to all, regardless of our economic situation. In general, I'd like to say that we're working on a financial program in which the independence party's policy is being displayed. Of course, we have, in the last of the budgets, and we also have a clear message about this in a government contract, proclaiming that we should strengthen society's inner resources, but we have not spoken for bloody cuts. There is also a big difference between setting up extra expenses on lawsuits and projects that make Iceland stronger and better, but there are a number of projects that are being carried out that may be handled by some others. There is a difference between making the health system stronger, or all types of literature are in all public institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u32	Mr. President. Those are amazing answers. It is spoken of as if the independence party's conclusions have more to do with home bridges, language demonstrations, and nothing but inconsistencies. Of course, there are 260 billion canals of bloody cuts. But we're not getting any answers. How will this group, the leader of this government, achieve this? So let us not forget that the Independence Party promised one category a hundred billion dollars. the infrastructure. Today, he is proclaiming 260 billion dollars. surgery. Looks like the Independence Party has two kinds of economy. He has an evil economy that helps to reduce taxes and increase expenses at the same time that all stakeholders agree not to succeed. And then there's the impossible economy, that's the economy we're seeing here, promising 100 billion. K. the same time they're going to cut down some 260 billion in public service. I also think this conclusion is a cold water reserve for voters in the leading of rural elections that are now ahead. How do prosecuting candidates in the rural election intend to respond to the results of this cuts? Which kindergartens are to be closed? [[The president calls.]] How much to reduce the pay of teachers etc.? These things can't just be empty. This is the policy of government leaders. [[The president calls.]] That is what he has to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u33	Mr. President. I thank you very much for your great interest in the National Conference Consequences of the Independence Party. I got it. I got it. A senator to read them all and read what is said there. It discusses much of how we are going to promote Icelandic society. So I'd like to put it here, too, that the financial expenses of the state's budget are increasing by 56 billion between the 2017 and 2018 budgets, which are 7.4%. The largest increases are the causes of the elderly and the hospital services, the causes of disability and disability of the disabled. We are here with a government contract. We're doing a good job. The independence party's policy was expressed, as previously stated in the financial program and the work of the Independence Party in the present government. That's where the projects are on their way to make Iceland better. This is done by the fact that the interiors will be very powerful. The work is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u34	Mr. President. At a meeting of presidents with members of the council earlier today, we were informed by members of the council that a president received an announcement from the secretary of finance that a man who plans to compromise the law on public finances, in particular Article 5. the laws that state that the Minister should submit the government's financial programme to the next five years before the Council no later than April 1. With the permission of the president, the minister believes it is an excuse that April 1 indicates that the date of the Passover, as well as the development of financial programs, is a difficult task and has taken longer than expected. And that is why a financial minister plans to compromise government law and later contributes to this, April 5 or the April 5th. Mr. President. We had no confirmation at this morning's meeting, and we are still in the middle of what the President intends to do on this announcement to the council. The last government had a considerably shorter time to win a financial program, but it was able to be put in place by April 1. I want less than ever. He is the president of the council of all things, and I would like to encourage him to impress him in requiring that a minister of finance would coax himself and return this to us at the council at the appointed time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u35	Mr. President. I'm also going to object to the fact that the secretary of finance says one thing, he's not going to do the law. It might have been closer to showing some humility and asking, since the government covenant contains the cover of his life. to improve the work programme and support of the General Assembly. We can't accept this. The last government, the Bjarni son of Benediktsson, had at least a month less time to establish a financial plan, but it was evil, but it came at the right time. [[Up top, come on, come on.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u36	Mr. President. It was a time when the government was formed that it made a covenant between the groups involved, not only for government cooperation but also for the expansion of the Council of II. The treaty is for government cooperation and for the promotion of Generalis. This is shown by the recent delivery of a letter from the Ministry of finance, where it is announced that financial contributions should not be carried out by law. A proper response to this letter by Generalis is absolutely necessary. At the same time, I stress that the General will not help in any way to do the suspicious work of members of Congress, including members of the Parliament. to collect information from the management system by asking, but to hold on to members of Congress in this subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u37	Mr. President. Gregorian calendar was recorded in 1582. It discusses how the months are divided and when the Passover is calculated. Hence, it should not be surprising that the Passover was held up this year at that time. It was to be available at a much longer notice. You wonder what you chose. The current financial minister is not so inexperienced in his work that he is not aware of the future task. There must be something else that makes the plan not set out on time. I would say that it would probably be for the council to show the understanding of having a meeting here next week in order to submit this financial program so that the secretary can respond within the legal bounds. But I don't think that's the least I can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u38	A respectable president. It is intolerable that the Ministry of finance, signed by the Ministry of Ministry, should only report to the General that the laws that were passed here should not be respected, the government laws on government finance. The letter says that the Ministry doesn't intend to respect the law. Rather, it shows up on Wednesday, April 5, after Easter, which I believe is April 4th. It doesn't change everything. On the other hand, the Senate needs to make serious comments on the fact that the Ministry of finance should one - sided announcement to the General that these laws are not to be respected. I'd like the president to gather members of Congress after this statement is made to the Ministry of finance and to inform the Ministry of Justice. You can't live with that, Mr. President, that we're being informed like that. It's not working. Then, of course, you can use your time more fully and get it to us before the Passover. No one needs to tell me that employees are going to stay at the Ministry of finance on Easter Day, one on Easter, or Friday want to work in a financial program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u39	President. The failure of this government is becoming extremely difficult, but you at least thought that the government was working on other matters, such as the government. It's a great financial plan. It turns out that it is not at all. In view of what you have, you ask yourself. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek came in, that date, April 1, has been in the picture for some time. Public financial laws are designed to promote false and professional practices in the financial system. They make it clear that a financial program should be submitted to the council no later than April 1. This isn't sira or just about. The law does not then make it clear, and there is no exception. If the Ministry of finance fails to apply this simple principle, you ask yourself, " Is there anything else that the Ministry does not trust to apply in these matters? ' Apparently, it seems that when you look at all the basics set out in the public financial laws regarding the improvement of public funds, this government is being violated, at last, the simple thing to set up a financial agenda for the Council at the right time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u40	A respectable president. We are talking about eight working days between financial programs to be developed, March 20, and the time to be due now according to this announcement. This means that the Council has much less time to put aside the budget, which should normally be taken throughout the spring Summit. This is as important as the budget, which should be the first item on the agenda in the autumn Summit. As a result, financial programs should also be first issues during the spring council. The opening of April 1 is to start with all too late. It was a solid agreement during the last term to aim for an even greater financial project than is now intended according to a work programme. I have to complain about what's going on here. I have, for example. Set up a change bill for public financial legislation so that financial planning will be submitted on February 1. [[The president calls.]] There is something that we should aim for so that the council has a lot of time to handle such a matter and is not just entering the stamping stamp that it has.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u41	A respectable president. I can agree with the many things that have happened here. Of course, we are to maintain legal requirements and it would have been good to have these financial programs held within the required time. For my part, however, I say that the three days that the donation is delayed do not make a difference between death and indiscretion in my case. I disagree. paritaprevir In view of the need for three extra days, Þorsteinn's Víglundsson son, who speaks as if he was not working on a financial program, as he put it here. I try to be mild to control, so I look at myself, and don't pretend that people aren't doing anything even if they need a three-day extension. It showed that last year's financial program appeared on March 31th. I agree with those who say that it could've been taken longer and better than that. In fact, I often came into it in that chair last year that it would have been better to take longer time on that schedule than to put it in the schedule. [[The president calls.]] Then, in 2016, it was submitted April 8th. We're working with this new law. We're working on it. At least I'm going to try to look at this fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u42	President. I have to admit, I'm a little wide open. I would like to ask a respectable president, " Can I get some kind of list of which laws can and who can not be broken? ' And when can we break them and when can't we? If there were to be different circumstances. And now it's reporting to the highest level. The Senate secretary of finance said he's going to break the law. So, in my simple mind, I ask: Can I just do that? Is that okay? And if so, is this going to happen somewhere else? Is there any other kind of law that can only be broken, announce not to violate the law, and that's all right? I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. The president would tell me if it's okay. If not, the Senate president should not criticize this in some way, send the highest order. The secretary of some kind of letter and criticize the work ethic? I don't quite understand why it's okay and how it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u43	Mr. President. Now the president of the Senate is testing whether he is a spokesman or a governor or whether he is a government correspondent alone. This is a serious matter. Today, we take first steps to learn how to conduct ourselves in accordance with official financial laws. This is of utmost importance to all efforts, activities, and discipline within the council. Therefore, it is important that the president of the Senate be firm against the Ministry of finance and say, "We need this document for April 1. ' I would especially like to point out that just a year ago, an attempt was made to make a presentation, was offered here to respect the law, respect the discipline that the law gives us at the council. This is extremely important. Besides, I'd like to direct it to what it is. paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson is that it was pretty good. It got at least not the loss-of-the-arts of most sources, such as those which are now being discussed by the government within the financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u44	A respectable president. I would like to strongly encourage a respectable president to join the council and to fit that role in particular. I know it's never nice to talk about the office of the Generals in relation to the government, despite the fact that we're always with the majority government and, by chance, the President is always coming from a series of government parties. The facts are sometimes not very polite. In any case, here are two matters that I think it is important for a respectable president to keep in mind as he approaches the government, on the other hand, what has already been discussed, how late it is to submit a financial plan. Once again, I reiterate how serious it is to be a conquistador. We know the effect, they're negative. This isn't the first time I've been doing this in a pita, any more than many other senators. The other is the debate surrounding the members of Congress's inquiry to the government, which is complained in many parts of the world. No, there's not too many of them. It's just clearly too small, apparently, to answer them. [[The president calls.]] Then you're going to fix it. Do not complain at the council that the council is doing too well when the government is unable to complete what it is told to complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u45	Mr. President. It is futile to speak up in newspaper articles, and here in a talk chair to build confidence in the General and political elements when action is shown, beyond any doubt or doubt. The Minister of Justice has twice been sentenced to the Supreme Court for violating the law, and now the secretary of finance and economics is directly sending mail to the council, where he claims he is going to compromise with the law. Now there is little, I say, to speak of increasing trust and credibility. Official financial laws are very clear, and this is not about being a humble government authority. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé spoke of his wanting to be, rather of following the law. I think we must set a good example at the council and abide by the law established by the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u46	President. This government is the government of high - seated declarations and low - sounding practices. It may be the problem of this matter. The government has had six weeks longer than the last government had to put up a financial programme, but that is not enough, despite the high - sounding statements on how much and healthy and how much to promote the dignity and respect of the council. In fact, I think it is an incredible arrogance and disrespect for the council to report a written letter signed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs without the exception of any discussion with the council. This is not a lot of respect for the letter of the law, which is perfectly clear. The budget should be submitted prior to April 1. At the same time, the European Commission is covering this government's covert under the Congress's challenge burden and announces a special conference by the Ministry General. I think the Commission might spend more time answering these inquiries than asking for a constant deadline and discussing the pressures of these inquiries. [[The president calls.]] I strongly encourage the president to protect the respect of the council just in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u47	President's trying his best.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u48	A respectful president must take a very special requirement, members of Congress, that he will come both to the council and to the law in defense of the lack of need in this matter. There has also been a great need for admonition on the importance of maintaining a schedule and the reasons why the timing of this program is to appear. V.E.G. The Minister of Industrial Affairs, vice president of the Independence Party, explained to us earlier that in this very plan the answer to the puzzle would appear on how the Independence Party is going to increase the gross national expenditures but will greatly gather at the same time, at least according to national production. V.E.G. In fact, a minister wanted to minimize the conclusions made by the Independence Party on contraction and rather boast about what the Independence Party had managed to achieve, while the council is completely in the dark regarding this big picture, the future vision of the government, whether it intends to increase expenses or reduce them or make both at the same time, while we do not have this magic plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u49	Mr. President. What we're asking for here is that a respectable president accompany us at the council and make the clear demands that we have to be handed over to a financial programme by April 1. It's just that it's pretty clear that we should have this plan before that. The fact that we can only announce that we don't get it as if it weren't for granted and that we get it five days later at the council, I don't think it's good work. I do not appreciate it in the spirit of strengthening Generalis trust and respect. I don't think it's working to strengthen the Council with the Commission, that they can just waltz here and tell us that we're not going to follow up with the information we're supposed to get at the time we're supposed to get them. Again and again, I wish the president would send a formal letter to the minister and insist that he obey the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u50	V.E.G. President. We work here under the government, which has issued a government contract for government cooperation and increased respect for the Generals. After that, we receive a letter from the Canselle, where the Council is announced to the secretary of finance on April 1. The date of the Passover is April 1, where there is a complaint against the breaking of the law. Actually, I have to ask a president if we can't ask for a financial minister and the canoe who wrote us here this morning to work for two days overtime and make this plan complete on March 31st. Then I was going to thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér's great advice, which he stated earlier. If I'm supposed to lie someday in the near future or for a longer time that I'll be like, for example, I'll make too fast a drive, and I'll have it up to the person who gets involved in me that I'm trying to get into the traffic laws because I can't imagine how to fit in with these laws. [[The president calls.]] Will the secretary of finance do so? In what way?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u51	A respectable president. Suppose they catch up and tie up their shoes and lift up their pants, and then they return the budget at the right time. Well, then the whole plan's gone to waste. Therefore, I would like to encourage the president to inform us members of the work programme how the programme will change in view of this, since it is expected that the Easter holiday would be the period for the financial program to pass away. The Commission, a financial committee, could then accept the budget immediately after Easter to review the rest of the reports. But now it even goes down to May to finish the narrative class, and then we're about to fall into the country's vacation, which is another vacation here at the council. So, then, what time do we have to resolve the matter, and in what way are we doing it professionally?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u52	Mr. President. I think it would save a lot of time if it was the highest. The president simply made it very clear that he intends to uphold the Congress, the legislator, in this matter, and to answer the Ministry of finance that we expect a financial program to be held before April 1 and legal. It's a simple, clear answer. What I'm really worried about is this stuff inside the administration and all the problems. One of the most enjoyable things to be a minister is to participate in queries. It keeps up - to - date, brings attention to certain issues, increases conversation and cooperation between council and Minister, and I think it's healthy. Today, however, extreme stress is being complained. Yet, this meeting began with a request to be read for the delay of 15 or 20 queries in half of the scheme. What kind of work are these? Meanwhile, there's nothing left to do with the government. What exactly is being done in today's crisis of action? Is there no news? That's why I'm asking the highest. Mr President, to stand up well at the council, we're gonna be stuck on top of it. A president if...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u53	President's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u54	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, I hope it's the highest. I want the President to deliver this clear message to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u55	Mr. President. The Mosaic Law specifically speaks of the covenant between the Prosecutive Class, the Independence Party, and the Left movement for a government cooperation and the Pronunciation of Generalis. We will promote the General Assembly, the memory part of the council, we have various ways to do so. It would be good if the President of the Generals stood with the smaller section, standing with the General, when it is time to get a case on the table at the right time. If they don't come on time, I don't talk about breaking the law, by not showing the bills at the right time, making it clear to the government that we don't accept it; the President of Generalis can do it if he is the president of the entire council. By permission of the president, the government covenant says: ▪ It is the will of the classes that are now involved in government cooperation and the development of the Generals to approach the project in a new way in support of the general public in the country, especially by giving intensive support to the General Assembly and increasing its effectiveness. It is indefinitely postponed to provide information on the basis of the rights of our senators to call for written information from a minister. It is repeatedly postponed, and the ministry cannot care for it. You just have to put more money in it or make sure the money is well spent. For example, we can have the administrative department taken out of the Generals Agency, the National Reconclusion, on how these matters are being handled in the administration system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We can do another thing here, we can refuse to accept a case. It only takes 1/3 at the council to deny having a case in here with exceptions, we can just turn it down. [[The president calls.]] The president needs to take care of us, or we'll just have to take care of it ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u56	The president asks why. Senators are careful to watch their time limits, even though they are much at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u57	Mr. President. The time to promote the General Assembly is now. It is not possible to cope with an announcement that the law will not be carried out. And here a clear answer is made from a respected president on how to react to that one - sided announcement. It has been so long ago that Easter is an impressive festival, and there is absolutely no need to legalize these materials. It's a natural factor, so I'm starting to get back to the other thing I've been talking about in my first speech, in the job scheme to answer the council's queries. It is now being carried on, and an invitation is being made that they intend to record some form of time registration because of this foreordaining their activities. I'm going to allow myself to say, Mr. President, for my own sake the Ministry might record a broad list of its activities and activities. This is done successfully in various fields of Icelandic society, including counselors and revisions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u58	V.E.G. President. The law on drunkenness in public is clear, but not everyone does. It is certain that those who do not follow them have not made great plans to break them. In this announcement, there is a plot to break the law and it is an abomination to the respect of the Generals. I challenge the President of the Generals to help the Generals increase their respect by applying the law in this case. It should not be, however, that the combination of the government plays on as I have previously thought in a discussion about President's conference board, that there are some things about the budget of the government? Besides, there's something else that I was pointing at in a side room, haven't people figured out that it's April 1? That's often because it's a hoax.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u59	A respectable president. I come back up because a respectable president was asked to answer that question. I come up here because I care about the separation of the European Commission and the legislature, and I care that the President is the president of the entire council, and I care that the President is absolutely clear that he will defend the General Assembly and be a member of the General Assembly when it comes to some matter of controversy with the Commission. I don't think it should be this way, but I don't think it's clear enough. As an example, the government agent of the Generals reluctances from the government to provide information. Therefore, questions are often sent, for information. It's, for example. can reduce the force's pressures by increasing the transparency and risk of this dysgeusia. Making a time log to evaluate the time involved in this is fine but to appreciate the need for more staff, not to assess the need to silence or reduce the overall monitoring role. That presentation is unacceptable, and we must have a dignified president with us in that fight. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u60	Mr. President. No doubt, it is noted that no member of the Sanhedrin is a member of the U.S. Senate. The secretary of the budget sees why we should come up here and make an additional effort for a provincial minister. You wonder if it has become so instinct for them to suffer the breaking of law by ministers, that it will not take them to come up here. It's only a special government delegate, okay? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, who has reason to come up here and try to defend the foretold law that we have witnessed. It is rather awkward to stand here and wonder if ministers in the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, will repeatedly be guilty of wrongdoing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u61	V.E.G. President. This financial problem makes me think that I was a bit quick the other day when I fought against Pirata's bill to put down a day's rest. I can see that it is very difficult to give the Ministry of finance a chance to work on Easter Day if it makes it possible for them to live with Icelandic law and set matters up as it should be done. I expect 2nd. I will only scratch my head over these oppositions to the laws that the Piranians want to establish. I'm also particularly glad that the Ministry of Iceland is about to adopt a special textbook, and I expect that since they're going to spend time and money trying to calculate the time and money in answering council requests so that we can only break down and get information about it here directly and from the State Department's Office investigation for what time the Ministry Department is going to do. [[The president calls.]] That would be a great improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u62	A respectable president. I've run on April 1st. To let people run on April 1. But running from April 1st, I've never known until now. Especially in the sense of running from law. This is going to be a whole new perspective on this day. I say, how is it possible to say that the law is like this, but we're just going to ignore it? I'm just gonna hope it's some April thing and some joke.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u63	A respectable president. Well, most things are going on, I think, about this case that's a good reason to say, and I agree with all the things that have been said here. I beg the President, the highest. To honor the order of the United States of America. There are two things you can think of that could explain the intention of wrongdoing. On the one hand, as mentioned earlier, the idea that this is simply an April boy's case. And then, in the light of the National Conference of Independence Party, a reexamination of financial programs is under way that it stands to cut so thoroughly into the spirit of the Independence Party. I have to say that, topv. Mr. President, I am excited to see this financial program and expect the council to take it and tear it apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u64	A respectable president. We're elected at the legislature to set up laws that the citizens will follow, premeditated and the citizens of the country. Of course, they are required to take these laws seriously. I was working with the police myself, and it didn't mean much for civilians to bear that they just shouldn't be doing this even if the law had gone into effect and wanted to get some time. There was nothing to listen to. On the other hand, the law has been declared predictable and clearly. Well, that's not the word, we can't say, but there's been a misdeclaration in the people's sales. That's serious. I expect our support and support at the General Assembly, the President of the Generals, to make sure that this will not happen, that whatever it will be done, it will be submitted by April 1. We just heard that it was the highest. A secretary of transportation will not implement a transport plan until the fall. It was a shock. [[The president calls.]] It's another shock.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u65	A respectable president. There's something called Parkinson's Law. It was presented in a joke in The Economist in 1955, and it has a measure of truth in it. With President's permission it's short, I'm going to let myself take it out first in English: ...workpands [[The president calls.]] Which means I'm not supposed to translate? [["Yes, translate."]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u66	It's Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u67	Yeah. Which simply means: Things, tasks, or tasks, take the time they are assigned to do so. If financial and financial agencies get the time they're supposed to have legalized, they'll simply finish the job at the time. It's about leaving six days of work to eight, or seven to nine, depending on how you figure it. I trust financial and financial ministers completely to complete this project in time. For if they have an extension time, they will use it all, just as the Law commands.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u68	The fact that more people want to discuss his meeting board at this point has not been noticed by the president and therefore wants to respond. I've been praying for members of Congress to share their thoughts on this matter before I get involved in it. The president has not intended to become a government correspondent in his role. You might wonder, " Is it part of me to increase the respect of the Generals to let such things happen? ' The President has already been in contact with the Council of Directors and has requested information on when a budget plan would appear and was concerned that it would not be reached until the appointed time as it is going on; it was finally confirmed during the days, asking for a letter to the council, what and what and was taken into account, and for the meetings of the Council of Congress and the prime committee this morning. One result was that the president will have a place of speech at the highest level. Secretary of finance, present with him the dissatisfaction presented here, and fine in these discussions, that this deadline is not to be met, as well as to him regarding the wishes of the House Studies on the advance presentation of the programme before it is distributed or made public. All of these are self-designed things. Here, according to incident, one active day or three days from the timelines expected by the law. Hv. In this regard, members of Congress have repeatedly talked about lawbreakers. The president does not intend to make that statement, although the law is silent as it is, he must admit that there has already been an example for us to see that these deadlines are not fully respected. So it was that a very similar letter was delivered to the 2016 General, who announced that a financial program would not appear until April 8th of the then established government. There is no reference to justifying one bad event with another. It is shocking that these deadlines are not to be met by the planning of Congress. On the contrary, as noted above, a financial plan would come sooner than later so that more time would be created to work on it. The determination of this council's work plan was confirmed as it was first published in the fall and then reinvestigated during the New Year's season, expressing the desire of the Parliament to have more time than less to work on a national budget in view of the experience of two spring escapes. Nevertheless, this has been so, in a short period of time, that this time limit does not seem to be getting caught. I'm sure it's a matter of time for that word to be spoken of to the highest degree. Secretary of finance whether there is any way to get this, though this is clearly the plan of the Ministry as it is today. This is what President has to say on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u69	Madam President. I'm asking the highest. Marine and agricultural minister, whether or not he intends to reimburse the export vehicle, or similar agricultural resources, regarding the export of lamb meat. For good reason, this discussion was very specific, and it was heavy on the part of the leaders and farmers during the past year when there was a problem in sheep farming. First, the problem was considered to be due to a great supply, and it became evident that it was not. In the end, one of the main reasons for the difficulties of sheep farming is, according to my opinion, U.S. status. But in cooperation with farmers, consumers, and others in our community, we also need to build an environment so that farmers can be self - preserved when it comes to cultivating our wonderful sheep. The opportunity is truly there. I read a talk at the top. Minister at the F.A.R. A lot of interesting things happened there. I have at another stage a minister for the vision reflected in the prayer's viewpoint, not a question, clear and important speech. It is important that the message from agri-gri-gricultural minister be used to support farmers, strengthen them to develop commercial production, and meet the needs of consumers. Not in order to subsidize the export of lamb, as it has been in the past and is required in the late autumn, since this is simply done in the way that exports are being paid and maintained to the domestic consumers. It was a good sign that exporters were bought at their time, more than ten years ago, by the Farmers Associations in the Convention at about half a billion dollars. ... tonow. Then it was realized that it was not the right way, certainly at the time, in earlier years, perhaps something useful for society but not in modern Iceland. We need to take other steps to strengthen farmers. We are all meant to talk, so we want to do it and to keep up with it. But it must also be clear that we are not going to take these old paths. So I ask the highest. Minister: Does he keep the words he spoke in the assembly that he had doubts about exporting, that it should be restored? Is he going somewhere else? Will he fulfill his commission to reinvigorate and thus violate the sole recommendations of the Contestant Board and of some others, including consumer spokesmen? It is important that we receive clear answers on the basis of the marine and agricultural sector in this matter, since I am convinced that we can strengthen agriculture in ways other than measures that eventually take on consumers. [[The president calls.]] It does not put a positive look on the agricultural system, which truly has many great opportunities inside.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The situation in the sheep trade is that there is a need to give it room to discuss the subjects involved. It is quite clear that the conditions of the past are now in sheepdoing from a relatively short time ago. This is a very public market. Both are available, the food import agreement, and the export agreement to some extent. There are difficulties in markets abroad, too. Then we're dealing with a stronger gang. Although only for this position, it is to be seen that there is no single patent solution, a single absolute solution, available. This is a complex problem and should approach it in this way. We know this from the December December issue of the budget in the manner in which people respected the situation. There was a very rich and broad agreement to meet the short - term problems of the sheep labor with a budget of up to 500 million for the sheep, 65 million for the assessment of the recovery system, and 50 million for projects in various fields, carbon equations, innovations of innovations, trade development, and also for strengthening exports. In this way the General wanted to deal with short - term problems in December, but the long solution is waiting. We're working on it. It's here to ask if I will fulfill the words I had in this multimedia speech at Iceland's farm convention on the export property, and I will answer yes. I have serious doubts that the export duty such as this will permanently solve the problems of sheep harvest. I don't think anyone's talking about it. Worst of all, I think the effect would be on consumers. I believe that the first thing that has to do with everything is to try to build a stronger trust, a closer relationship between consumers and farmers or the manufacturer in the country, and to consider me to be a good source there, as it is said, when it is presented. In most places, I get the best response. I think that the basics to the sheep trade that need to be discussed when discussing whether to take up exports or not, the big questions there, is how to strengthen the income ground of this article, achieve a balance in the production, and thus strengthen the breeding of sheep, making it a stable profession. I think that once we have the answers to these questions, there is a situation that simply doesn't need to be anxious, since the sheepfolding can be an independent trade and competitiveness, which everyone wants to look into and then the will of the government to work with the article to make the knots so that it can work well in that article. It's complicated. Many factors need to be addressed. There are resources within the current market agreements to make arrangements if some kind of emphasis is needed in financial support. I have claimed that it is possible to contribute to market witnessing in foreign markets, to share in it, both to the butchers and to farmers. Efforts may be made in cooperation with farmers to neutralise production incentives in existing farm contracts. There are a number of factors involved in this business that I think we can talk about and that, in fact, we are preparing a conversation, as well as that I have met the leadership of sheep farmers now a few times, but I shall admit that they have seen very much that the short answer is to set a law as the obligation of a business to export. So far, I have not agreed to the arguments that have been presented to do so, and I intend to use myself in another way to try to deal with the problems we face. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u71	A respectable president. Thank you for both the lead and the highest. Minister for what has been said here in this chair until now. I can agree with the criticism that appeared earlier today, and I felt that there was no particular objector or policy in the field service. I missed a bit of seeing where the government is going with talks like this. This may be explained by the conclusion presented at an independent national meeting for the past weekend is not very clear but in the case of agriculture. If I've understood the highest. He's right here to say he's not in the dark, and he's opposed to an export duty. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister: "If there's a situation where there's an excess of lamb meat, an overexploitation of farmers' production, do you think he would be able to contribute to an export? And could this possibly be the result of falling apart, losing out, becoming an international market? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u72	Madam President. Just because of the last observation: It's exactly what counts that we're going to do some cross-examination of the livestock contracts. We need to look for ways to balance the production process. We must face what the market is like and act today. We're supposed to focus on the domestic market, get the hang of it. The domestic market is no small business, and many foreign tourists come to the country. Let us cultivate a better foundation there, for the product is marvelous and always beneficial. I think it's important for the Department of Agriculture, as well as for the whole agricultural field to increase the information flow, increase transparency. Increase economy. It is extremely important to get Haust into the matter. We worked last year to get a better economy, so the government would not have to rely solely on the figures that come from farmers. I'll agree with the highest. Ministers that it is extremely important to build the agricultural sector, this remarkable sector, cultural sector, and important jobs on the future, to achieve certain agreements. A harmony between consumers and farmers because their interests match. But we're supposed to watch the entire chain of value, from farmers to the plate, to the consumer. In between, there are also small salesmen. We are also to have them with us on the subject, since this is a common community assignment. It does not mean using old - fashioned methods in this regard. I'm convinced that we now have the equipment to go even. in renewing the livestock contract, saying in plain terms: Yes, we will continue to support the flocks of the land. We're going to do it through the carbon equation, through the regional strength. They have to dare say that there are areas in the country that are better qualified to support their flocks, from an environmental point of view, where the highest. Environment minister is here in the hall, and out of so many views. I have often pointed out that both the Western and the northeast are designed to do so. [[The president calls.]] If rightfully handled, there are tremendous opportunities. To bring all of us together at the council to join us in action that eventually supports our continuing to offer strong and good lamb as well as foreign and foreign people want to consume and enjoy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u73	A respectable president. I thank you for the little discussion that has taken place. But for the sake of a word. paritaprevir Gunnar, son of Sveinsson, I say, there's nothing new about overproduction of lamb. We've been producing more than the domestic market calls for. From 1990 onward, consumption has decreased, from 40 pounds [40 kg] per person to 17 pounds [17 kg]. There are no new facts. The problem has been that we haven't been able to get all of this into our lives. I've said that the problem we're dealing with about eviction is 21⁄23 you're going to have. a ton. I thus see an assignment that cannot be overworked. We are on a fishing road, exporting hundreds of thousands of tons of fish that we are detracting from the sea. Let's just focus on getting it right. I think there's a lot of skills. When giving a remarkable talk, I'll just mention that there are other things in it besides the exports I know are controversial. Food policy, education, shopping policy, quotas, advice on raw meat - all new things that you don't even think about, but worth it. Deal with this rather than criticize one point and break away from everything else. I will stand by the flocks of the land, that I may do it, working with that trade. There are plenty of ways to do that. I would like to show that the review being carried out on the basis of the government's administration covenant will account for the opportunity for farmers to work out their affairs in a way that is not carried out in existing market agreements. Everyone, at least within the sheep's flocks, believes that it is necessary to revise that agreements are needed; yet, they are only a little more than six and a half years old. What does that say about earlier works? They need a full review. That work is started under the leadership of a man. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson and the Cologne of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, director of the Neythic Association. [[The president calls.]] They bring farmers and consumers together, and I have no faith in anything but that it will benefit from the sheep trade and consumers in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u74	Madam President. I come up because of what we were discussing, the case that we discussed before we started this program, and answers to the top. A president earlier. I have to say, as it is, I'm rather sad about the answers we received from the highest degree. President. I felt that it was not a sincere intention for the president to have a permanent relationship with the executives, to be a star, the flag of the legislature we need. A letter was received asking for some transfer to financial programs from 2016 I think. These are new songs. Let's try and be careful. Let's try to follow the law right away. Let us not imply that there should be any compromise here and there, since the Ministry of finance needs one or two more days. Let us give clear instructions to the executive office at the council and say: Return this financial program to April 1, to the law, to do so, for God's sake, especially on the respect of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u75	A respectable president. I missed the comments of a respected president earlier that he did not answer my question about how this will affect the work programme. If the Ministry is going to take more time, does this mean that we need to take less time in financial spending, or do we need to reevaluate a work programme? Are we going to have a conference in May when there was another vacation planned? Will we stay in June? What does it mean to delay financial programs from March 20 to April 4? It's not just about a day or two. According to a plan of action, it was to be discussed on March 20th. It's eight hours a day. It is riding the whole organization on a story process and the Committee's work programme, and it is affecting our work at the council; how we have to go followed, which is still not acceptable. [[The president calls.]] We have recently been through such a news talk that was impossible. Do not do the same with the financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u76	A respectable president. I must also make comments to what a respectable president said at the end of the discussion earlier on the President's conference board. In fact, there was another sitting president. That is, on the other hand, about what will only be described as a barrier to the European Commission. I wondered if any communications between the Generals and the executives would be different if the President of the Generals never came from the government. It is an interesting idea from time to time. I think there's always a reason to discuss it, no matter who's the president every time. A respectable president especially wanted to avoid making a legal offense. But it's against the law. They're different serious, but it's against the law. There can't be a disagreement about that. Why doesn't he want to use that word? I don't quite understand. Then I have to make a note of this constant talk about the respect of the council when the General is doing his part. The fact that we are standing here asking questions and taking the initiative to control the executive authority is not worth the respect of the Generals. [[The president calls.]] That's part of what we're supposed to be doing here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u77	Madam President. I think I'm compelled to come up here and say something. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, about the disappointment of a small life in the President of the Generals when these matters were discussed here. It was as if there were some sparks to respond to the wishes of members of Congress that the Commission would be very well and physically directed in the right direction in this matter. This is one of the largest cases in every government after this new law was adopted, i.e. A five-year financial plan. In fact, it is surprising that a government that was in no better position here a few months ago has managed to do this in a shorter time than the present government seems to be going to do. But the important thing, Madam President, is that the council will not receive announcements from the Ministry of Economic Affairs or anyone else there; it is only announced that laws that have recently been passed. As far as I'm concerned, the same department has made a huge effort to get these laws approved here at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] I beg you, Madam President, please use all your might, and also the council president, to make some progress in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u78	Madam President. Because of the discussion here, I'd like to challenge my opinion, and I'm sure more, that I don't think it's all about the ministry and the staff. I don't think there's anything there to stop. The reason this takes so long is, of course, that it is ideologically incompatible with a government that doesn't know what to do. She doesn't know what a government budget should look like. That's why it takes time. They're playing the big movie in a national financial program. If this is to happen, it might as well be done in public only here at the Senate Hall and in the council committees rather than in some behindmarket between the presidents of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u79	Madam President. This discussion was not intended to continue. But I have to say, I had such a profound disappointment with the highest answers. A president earlier, who simply had to express them here. I think it's so important, this is a remarkable document, a remarkable law that we agreed on, a government law. They are a source of discipline, something new, a new work ethic, and a new work environment with regard to the entire budget. I'm sorry if people plan to be around them lightly, as the Ministry of finance is doing with this letter to the council. I think it's really gnarly. That's why it's serious. First of all, we're going to break the law. Then there might be, like a cot. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek said earlier, the government just hasn't agreed on this. Tell us, then. Just honestly tell me that's the way it is. Or are they waiting for what proverbs come out of the Easter eggs? What do I know? Be honest and tell us why this delay needs to be. [[The president calls.]] I say clearly, "Go to the law. " I want the council and the President to join us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u80	Madam President. We'd like to promote the council. Not just their respect. It must be on legitimate grounds. We see that the honour of the council is about to go up, including Because we've been doing our own surveillance job. Nationals love it when we perform our surveillance role toward the government. We'll inform you, we'll have an open committee meeting. We can be sure that we need to keep on doing exactly this and doing more. Use more tools we have. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has been diligent in calling for information, including to indicate that large amounts of data are not available. We can proceed with this, be in charge of the government that a government decision can do on how to handle the money we give them, the government, in caring for the information required for the council. It is repeatedly complained correctly that reports are not submitted, queries are not answered. We're just supposed to stay there because I don't trust the President at the council until I see it. He's not doing it right now. [[The president calls.]] We can do this. And I've proposed to my council and started to propose that we'll look at our things, what it looks like if the weather is good here at the council and what it looks like if the weather is bad. We're just going to start collecting things we can do, collecting them, sort them down, so we're going to use our authority so that the government can't be over us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u81	Madam President. I agree with the members of Congress who have addressed and mourned the reaction of the president to the complaints we have made. What a disappointment! It is once that the laws on public financial matters lower the heels, stipulation the fundamental issues of public finances. I hear from the council members here in the same hall that they think it's rather trivial, it's a fearful part of us members of the council to complain that these fundamentals are broken. But that is exactly what it is. The fundamental factors get a little boring when they need to be respected. When we put down these heels, put down dates like this - of course, it's hard. It puts us under obligation to discipline our practices so that we can fulfill these requirements. It seems like this: it doesn't matter, we don't have to follow any of this, it doesn't suit us to put this up there, we're going to take extra days, and we don't even have to ask the council for permission, so we're just going through a letter from the Ministry of State, that the Ministry isn't going to do the law. [[The president calls.]] All the basics are missing in this matter. It is time for the council and especially for the European Commission to respect the basics involved here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u82	The president would like to impress on members of the Parliament a time of public speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u83	V.E.G. President. I would like to agree with other members of the council who have been exposed to this matter and restate what I said in my previous talk about the President's conference management that it seems always clear and clear that such a government, composed in this way, with a broad appeal to the political axis, does not seem to agree on the matter. I'm practically telling you. So when all elections and policy issues were put aside to establish this government covenant, was it not honest then? He is, then, more honest than that, they do not agree to establish financial plans at the right time and thereby violate laws that lower the respect of the Generals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u84	A respectable president. I'm invited and prepared to think in solutions. Last, I suggested that a digital version of the budget could be produced, now the budget, earlier for the council, since it is a custom to print and take time. Then the time limit could be reached on April 1, by distributing a digital copy all over, but allowing the printer to drop over to April 4th. At least at the right time, the case would have been distributed. So because of this, maybe it's an idea I'm holding on to the government and the Ministry of finance. Whatever the case, we still have problems with the work programme. That problem is unsolved. It's all about what's going to happen with the Commission after a lot of work. On Easter holiday, there are two weeks expected to be the narrative week that falls on today's regular assembly days. [[The president calls.]] There's going to be a lot of trouble in the Senate's payment on a financial plan, because there's gonna be very little time for it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u85	Madam President. Doorholaey is a unique natural bulb in Myrdal, especially because of the hole in the rock that appears from the lighthouse in the High Island, and we all know it. The island is declared a peaceland under nature protection and one of the first peace reports in Iceland. It was farmers who took the initiative to do that at the time. Thorneye has emotional value for many, both for Icelanders and for foreigners, who have come to know the territory and thus have bonded with it. The pressure on the Pyrum Island has continued to grow, and it is advertised as one of the country's major tourist attractions. Tension has gone on for years on how to use the island. These include debates about landing improvements, boundaries, and closures of bird laytime. Work in the Dyhola Island dissociation organization began in the fall of 1998, under the protection of the State of Nature. The work was planned for the landscape, and the organization was cooperated with the Myrdalshrepp, Sigling agency, the Road Building, and the State's protection, later the Environment Agency. The aim of the shared organization was to improve the facilities and services of the Shirdola Island tourists and contribute to the protection of the environment by hygienic, targeted steps, communications and education. Many comments were made in the family planning process, including to the intent that consultations with the inhabitants were betrayed, that they were not taken into account, but that they were chiefly set in the care of tourists. The government's natural protection turned that away. In 2014, the EEA released a Dyholay Protection and Management Plan, and in 2015, Rarisk's implementation began at the construction of an electrical cord due to a proposed treatment at a toilet position. The process caused much noise and did not allow her to do so. The peaceland work was severely criticized. Many of the local people felt that a lot of things had gone wrong when it came to construction in the country of peace. These include footpaths, safety fences, and so forth, as well as the lack of attention on the local people. Madam President. In particular, this request turns to the pedestrian facility established by the EEA for the construction of a building on the island. It focuses on the cost of the manpower, the parking lot, the road, and the disposal around the building, and especially on the building itself and its location. The location was set by architect and Environment Agency. Many of the local people, as well as other tourism workers, feel that the building is too high and too soft in the environment, that it is a sight pollution in this beautiful location.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u86	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. Birgir Þórarinsson's request for the inquiry. The right to review the story, the way things were, was the day of the door, like the dog. A senator named, as a peace-inhibiting land on the basis of nature protection law, as shown by an advertisement in the Government News No. 11/1978. In the peaceland rules, it is a law that the EEA can shut down public traffic through the Dublin Island period between May 1 and June 25, in order to protect bird life during lay. In recent years, there has been an increased demand to keep the island open for traffic throughout the year. The Agency has arranged for a bird's survival to be evaluated in order to keep the island open during the laytime of birds. If, in the EEA's opinion, the conclusion is that traffic can be controlled through the island and thus integrated and protected. In the opinion of the landkeeper, it has been successful. Of course, this calls for more service, not only to the chieftain but also to the construction of wood. Because of the question why. A senator on the hygienic status of Dyholaey was consulted by the EEA, which oversees the Peace Land of Dublin, and is based most of my reply on the Agency's information. In November 2016, the construction of a new parking lot at the Dyrholley began, and in April 2017, the establishment of a toilet house was completed. The toilet house designed by the firm's architects Glaáma-Kim takes into account the design of a toilet house at the Who Mountain in a Mýcow band and builds the company's plan on this project. The project designed in July 2016 at the expense of the building was 27 million. A., but the real cost turns out to be 49.5 million. K. When an offer was received according to the design arrangement, it was found that there was a significant lack of plan. For example, there was an offer in analysis, windows, and doors of 10.3 billion. Yeah, but the plan was 6.1 million. K. At that time, the work and content of the assembly of units, isolation, clothing on the walls, roof, and floor, along with the rest, went quite ahead of schedules of 15.9 million. A.J., but the real cost ended to 28.3 million. K. The toilet was in use in September. The EEA provides the entirety of the operating room that is open 24 hours a day every day of the year, and the Agency has decided to collect an amount of services of 200 bucks. The Agency assumes that the cost will largely depend on the cost of operating. However, the EEA does not expect income to be able to pay back the cost of income at least 2018; actually, it may not be expected in the future with regard to the price of the service. At the standards and design of the toilet house, the Agency enjoyed the company's team of experts Glaáma-Kim, which included has designed buildings in the Þingvalla national park, and from the covert of the company's landscape trades, but that company had a sharing structure for the Dyholaey. It may be possible that the company's landscape agencies have worked in different protected areas in the past. The EEA has pointed out that the results of the final production of the house have been delayed, including Due to adverse weather and other factors, including discontinuation during lay, labour delay, and poor speed management. When the construction is completed, the toilets will blend into the landscape, along with footpaths and parking lots, according to the EEA's opinion. Because of many differences in the design of infrastructure in the nature of the country, the EEA has endeavored to cooperate effectively with landowners. As a result of the development of the toilet house in the Dyrholaey, the Agency had consulted landowners from the ideas of landowners and candidates in the Dublin area, showing that there was a need to improve toilet status. This is true both at the level of planning and by the Agency's design. According to the Agency's information, landowners and rural society have not made comments about the location, design and appearance of human activities. Work is being completed in front of the toilet room, and the parking lot, along with adaptation of the surrounding landscape, will blend into the environment. The cost of parking, the link to footpaths, heavy overload, and other waste areas is estimated to be 48.8 billion. But of that amount, some 17 million are beyond recovery. Another cost, such as due to demand, for water drills, as well as a pumping house, a decomposition, and a seating system, is 13.8 billion. K. I will come to the latter part of my reply in the second part of my reply. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u87	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, they're interesting. It seems to me that the cost was 100% over the programme, that's natural. As a member of the budget board, I must say that this is not a good practice. We're looking up at a situation I'd like to find, in the end, over 100 million, in a toilet situation. Now I know to the highest. A minister was not involved in this assignment - he is new to office, and I wish that he would succeed. But that's the law on public finance, I think it's 34. saying, "The minister must keep track of the progress of his legal body." If plans are made, ministers must acknowledge this and, among other things, to a financial committee. This is an important law. In terms of local circumstances and the like, I have other information that the local people have made comments. By the time we get there, many people feel that it's a little out of place and that it's just a little bit more obvious in the environment. It would be nice to have a personal opinion of a minister of what he has been highly environmentally environmental in his former profession and who knows this sect well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u88	V.E.G. President. As for the minister's position on hygiene standards and if there is an environmental accident, as was shown in the inquiry, I would like to say the following. In general, I feel that a minister would need to be expected not to be involved in some special projects in the reservations but to rely on his profession to implement such projects as the one discussed here. It is shocking that plans have been greatly improved. I totally agree with that. I'd like to say that if it's considered more of the local population that the location of hygiene facilities is an environmental disaster, I encourage the local people to settle matters with the Agency and try to work with the Agency for solutions. I would like to say in general that in my opinion, we need to have the standard of building wood, such as parking lots and hygiene facilities on the edge or outside natural spheres, as is done in many parts of the country. I named Stonehenge, England, as an excellent example there. I'd like to state with this reason that I have drawn new policy for infrastructure, which hopefully will be put before the council now in April, stressed professional matters, and that they will then be put in charge of that part so that the structure of the infrastructure will fit in the best way into the delicate nature that they are meant to protect so that the attraction they are, in fact, would not be reduced to the extent intended to protect, i.e. Iceland's nature. I think I'll finish my case and thank you. The senator again is a great candidate for the inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u89	A respectable president. The reason for this request is the reply of a minister to a written request for a vote box. Question No. 6 was: How many votes have been broken, broken, or otherwise opened in an undesirable way during delivery, transfer, or use in some general election since 2013? You might be more specific and say, in all elections, but all right, that doesn't mean everything. However, the answer was that in four cases, there was a minor nodule and one incident described in the reply. I'd be interested to know about the other incident, what was the tone referred to in the reply of a minister? Because the examples I know of - our agents witnessed them and enrolled in the General election last time; I also witnessed as an agent in other elections - could not be classified as a minor curator. I look forward to a list of which nudity is called in reply to a minister of minors. Then I ask: What action was taken to prevent such an outcome? It's exactly what I've seen myself doing, in my job as an agent in a single election, that in the latter elections repeated the same incident. I eagerly await the reply of the minister and the list of these cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u90	A respectable president. Hv. A senator refers to an answer presented at the Council of 348 of this same legislature, informing that in 2013-2017 a box in the city of Reykjavík was elected to the north, and in four cases a minor slant. Here we ask exactly what the so - called nomad was about the voters referred to there. It is therefore clear that in all cases it was a lump that occurred during the transfer of these boxes when they met, but the votes were moved on the eve of the morning with trucks from the home of the head of government in Reykjavík at an elected location, as normal. The boxes were then moved in the same way, full of votes at the telecommunications site. It's an inevitable process of election. When the vote box was transferred in the election to the Generals in 2016, one of the vote boxes fell outside into another box inside a truck carrying the vote box in the Southwestern district and ended the second box so that the seals of the box were sealed, but the seal did not come off. After inspecting the box, emissaries did not comment that the votes were taken as talkers. It also asks what action, as said, followed by events that led to the shock of these boxes. It is to answer that it is, as I have described, in some respects an inevitable skunk that may be the result of transport, no matter what the nature of that transport is. However, according to information from Reykjavíkurburg, employees involved in the implementation of the election have been encouraged to exercise protective care in the handling and transfer of a vote box.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u91	A respectable president. This was not an explanation of the precise appearance of the softboxes. In order to help a minister, I may be able to tell you that when I was an agent at the counting point, my bottom just fell out of the box, so that the money just went out on the floor. The box of votes was a teat ring, and a secondary seal was placed on it. I personally witnessed this. So I think it's strange that it's not part of this list. During the second election, the same thing happened. However, before the voters were placed in a box, the bottom simply fell out of the box, and the bottom had to be nailed to the same holes that were used before and did not hold. All of this was well documented, but it does not appear for some reason in the reply of the Ministry and Minister. I wonder, why? Why is that? In addition to my previous written request, I ask how many votes were used in the 2017 General elections were stratified by votes. The answer is that the Ministry did not keep a list of vote boxes. Now I wonder, who can answer that question? How many separate boxes are in use? Who should I ask other than the Minister of Justice? Is it not the mission of the Minister of Justice to seek answers to the appropriate party that hold these numbers?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u92	A respectable president. I don't know what to ask. A senator on a number of votes, but surely they can be buried by the Supreme Government and by national government. Hv. A senator may refer to a previous written answer to a Senate document of 348. It's the ideal government, then, to say if they don't keep a record of how many first-aid machines are in use. I'd think in advance I'd be holding a number of averages in a round, or at least every place for himself. Encouraging that information should not be complicated. Hv. A senator has described information that he has, probably from his party's agent at his time, about something specific. That is not consistent with the information I have received from the employees involved. I don't have any more information than that, but I'll certainly look for details on that. If it is true that a box has suffered such a sledgehammer as a dog. There must have been a special book written by a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u93	Mr. President. Just over a year ago, at the General Assembly, a request was adopted for a report from the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice on bringing in the United Nations Children's Covenant. That report has not yet been received by the General Assembly. The request was that Eygló Harðardóttir, former general and minister. Moreover, the movers were other so - called advocates of children among the generals. The United Nations Children's Covenant was validated in Iceland in November 1992 and legalized in 2013. Since then, he has had a direct right effect on the land. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights is the world's most widely held human rights covenant, requiring special rights of children regardless of adult rights. These include the right to life, immunity, family and private life, associates, opinions, expression and religious freedom. A report by the request from the Children's spokesmen at the General Assembly will include: until, by permission of the President: The Children's Deal ensures that children have the right to express their opinion on all aspects of their life and to take into account their children's opinions in line with their maturity and age. The treaty also places the obligation to take action in order to ensure the well - being of children, including those in the Member States. in social, educational and health domains The report requested that the following be discussed in the highest order. Minister of Justice: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. The impact that can be derived from the legalization of the children's covenant on government assignments and services. 2. How to diagnosis the effects of legislation, policy-making and paediatric services have been achieved. 3. Whether data have been collected where the status and situation of the paediatric population are systematically mapped. 4. Whether or not there is a clear paediatric action plan. 5. Whether or not there has been a progressive educational program on the official pact, e.g. for teachers, elected agents, children and the public. 6th Whether to establish a committee or a working group for the induction of the covenant and its influence. 7. How to monitor the induction of the covenant and the application of the rights of children. 8. The rightfulness of the contract from its legalization. 9. Whether or not to agree to the third optional accounting with the children's covenant. 10. How has the formation of the 2012 children's covenant responded to comments made by the United Nations National Experts? These are all big questions. I don't expect the highest. A minister will explain them in detail in five minutes, yet he will allow me to ask: " How has the United Nations Children's Covenant been implemented, and how has it been followed?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u94	A respectable president. The United Nations Children's Covenant is another two human rights contracts that have the direct legal value of this country. A senator knows. This shows the importance of the covenant. It is difficult to understand just how the children's covenant has been instituted here, since the covenant has had a tremendous impact on the rights of children and on their attitude. As soon as the children's covenant was signed for Iceland's hand, it was started making the Icelandic rights of its regulations. Various changes were made in many laws in order to ensure child - rights. Since then, the children's covenant has been generally viewed as a legal arrangement for children, and it can be found, for example, in many Icelandic legislation. Then I would also like to point out that the office of an agent of children was set up in 1995. Children's manager even has. the role of following up the rights of children and promoting the respect of the children's covenant in this country. The legalization was an important step in implementing the treaty here. However, the induction of the covenant is an ongoing task, and it is important to follow it constantly after the children's covenant is truly respected, both on the legal process and primarily on the legal structure. In addition, the Ministry strengthened the project of child-friendly rural society that is represented by UNICEF in Iceland and the Children's Agent. Its objective is to support the formation of the child covenant in the field of rural society, which cares for much of the service that affects the daily lives of children. Finally, I would like to mention that Iceland is committed to report regularly to the United Nations Child Rights Committee on the implementation of the treaty here on land. As a result, the commission offers a recommendation on what they think is more suitable for the execution of the covenant here on the land. The last comments from the committee in 2012 were made by the U.S.A., and they were followed by a special group. Various changes have been made to address the comments made by the Committee, mainly by the 2013 Law of the children's covenant. Iceland is to submit its next report to the Committee this year. The decision has been made to appoint a special group of workers with representatives from a number of resources in order to meet and follow that report. In addition, the same group will continue to cooperate with the proposals that Iceland may receive from the Commission in cooperation with the newly formed Management Board on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u95	Mr. President. In 1st. Section 3. The United Nations Children's Covenant, with permission of presidents, says: ▪ What is best for a child must always be put in place when public or private social institutions, courts, governments, or legislators take steps that concern children. At this point, it seems that with the cohesion of the administrative bodies, it would have been necessary to ensure sufficient financial support so that governments can carry out their duties as outlined in the children's covenant, i.e. to protect the interests of children when dealing with matters that concern them. National family area, e.g. The office here in the capital area is so limited that it cannot fulfill its duties. Therefore, it is vital to consider whether a minister of judicial matters is planning to promote the office of the businessman, e.g. in the capital area, receiving sufficient funds so that the family field can carry out its legal duties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u96	A respectable president. There are many issues of children in our system. That is so sad when people have to look back and forth, depending on where they are actually going to discuss appropriate matters. I would be interested to hear a minister's opinion of what can be done to correct the problems facing children, e.g. on the third optional accounting with the children's covenant. Besides, I'd like to say that the child's business is basically just a matter of saying that children are human rights as well as human rights. They should be given special consideration in many areas. It is not said that children have less rights, but they really have more rights. That's what the children's business is about. Children are also individuals and humans entitled to everything in their rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u97	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and the what. Councilmen who also spoke up. In Comb 4. The children's contract is about the responsibility of member countries, by permission of a president: In each Member State, all appropriate legal and administrative measures should be taken, as well as in other areas, to bring about the rights of those approved in this contract. In terms of economic, social, and cultural rights, Member States should take such measures to the extent they have accomplished, and with international cooperation where necessary. This article tells us that we should not only consider Icelandic children, or children born in Iceland, but also children who are fleeing and taking refuge here. All of us need to help in the world. The children's covenant is adopted by all countries of the world except the United States, so there is a wide range of commitments. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether it is appropriate to agree to the third optional book with the children's covenant, and to agree with it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke here. Would it not be necessary to agree to the third optional accounting with the children's contract to take the step that Iceland will be responsible for international child - rights? Would that not be a desirable goal? This would at the same time strengthen our commitment to care for the rights of children. I wish for the highest. Minister will tell me how she feels about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u98	A respectable president. I think that all of us can agree that child interests are being cared for on a far grander scale in the legal process and in the whole of the law here and in the children's affairs are far more attentive to the past few years. Of course, because of the fact that we have adopted this child - covenant, the general view of human rights, of course, has made big progress and has become conscious of the need for special attention on the rights of children. Children may often be in a more sensitive position. In this discussion the members of the county were committees who, of course, have a very important role in the affairs of children, play a key role and play a key role in the order of custody and parental association with their children, which, of course, are mainly the human rights of children but, of course, parents too. In this regard, I have to say, major progress has been made in the county, including the U.S. with an obligatory treatment of reconciliation that has been established in these last years. We're seeing positive results. Clémenters are evaluating the process and have taken up a new and different style of action. Everyone there is willing to do that work as much as possible. As for the third optional books with the children's covenant, they are optional, as known by men but may have difficulty. We will consider this and are being examined in the Ministry to see if this applies in this case and will especially be discussed by the aforementioned Management Board on Human Rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u99	Mr. President. I'll direct you to the highest level. Minister of Justice: How far is the work done on a legal security program within the Ministry? When does the top count? Minister to this work of all things will complete? I know the work has come a long way, but it's important to know where this important thing is. It is based on 2015, as I recall, when the government was then formed and set up a legitimate security program. It embraces law enforcement, the prosecution, the full schedule and the courts. For the first time, the overall approach to the justice system, its future ship, and then, as important as the budget for the justice system, and long-term plans developed by the system and institutions, was carried out. For what we've been discussing today, i.e. Budgeting and policy, it is important to see in the plan where these four estimates are taken into account. Back in the day, an predecessor said the highest. A minister in the profession to be molded by the future vision of the judicial system, individual factors, and to set measurable goals. It would be developing policies that would be well compatible with the long - term thinking we are trying to enter the government's financial affairs, as I had previously thought. I know that the law and the prosecutions and the ultimate plan are all as good as done, but there is something further to the completion of a court plan, perhaps of certain past events. It was not the thought of back then to deal with some problem at that time, a great strain on the courts and on law enforcement. It's gonna need more funding. But there they tried to give a clear view of the future in these important areas of society, and much effort was put into it. I'm curious to know exactly where these plans are after the highest level. A minister took up the job. How's the top? Minister to follow them? I think it's a very important matter of interest, something that's good for us to know that even if governments come and go, they will be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u100	A respectable president. You're right. A senator noted, these programs mentioned have come quite far. But it should be possible that by means of law on public financial matters, no. 123/2015, changed to a large extent the general management of environmental policies. I refer in particular to 20 st. The law. In view of this, there was a difference between the two of us. it is considered that the previous policy effort under the premise of the Justice Department should re-examine itself in accordance with Article 20. Public financial law. The original objective of the legal security program was to form a particular umbrella with regard to police policy, prosecution, courts, and the full degree of punishment so that a vision of these classes and necessary conformity would be given. Work on a law enforcement program had gone quite far, while others were working a little longer. The law-enforcement plan had gone beyond any other plan. The law on public financial matters, as I have mentioned, included the change that now the budget of policy management in specific language areas has to be defined in a distinct way. As a result, the system used in which a legal safety plan is not a good guide for public financial matters. The work has been officially suspended in the court-security programme, however its results will be used for continued policy development in the relevant sectors so that prosecutions, courts and meetres will now be carried out in accordance with official financial legislation. The exception from this arrangement is a program of law enforcement that will continue on as it is, in fact, well, far along. Besides being specifically approved by the government, it also has its origin in the council, and I plan to submit a legal plan until the next fall council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u101	Mr. President. Details of the legal safety programme on the Management Board web, i.e. of September 4, 2015, that if I'm correct, she has been discussed in a cooperative field on increased prosperity. It is the late Ólöf Nordal, then Minister of the Interior, who addresses the meeting and reviews this. Since then, the minister of justice has been in office for a year and a half. It would be interesting to know where this schedule is or at least they are taking part in the program to be used. According to Justice Minister, she is going to bring in the legal force of this, which is one of the four points in the fall. But in the fall of the year, the police - the area in which the police weigh risks - said that it was a red crisis for organized crime based on their recommendations, which is done as the United Nations does. In one year, in the highest season. Today, a minister of justice is trusted in courts and law enforcement, factors to be moved over there, going down by eight and seven points. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The system of justice is down to 33%, obviously there's a considerable lack. [[The president calls.]] Where does this say exactly in the Ministry? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u102	The president asks members of the Parliament to respect a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u103	Mr. President. I have to say, I think it's a certain story. It was in accordance with the opinion of the times that it was very important to shape a legal safety plan. Official financial laws went into effect on January 1, 2016. They continued to work on these programmes after the implementation of a government law on government finance, and there has been a great deal of work in the law - enforcement program, as we know, that is far removed and that is to be continued. It is good, and there is joy, for it is time. The State had come a long way with that work, and so did the full - time plan. This is of utmost importance, for all major partners, institutions, and others were called to the great work involved in these programmes. As far as I can tell, all this work should be done, put aside, except for the law enforcement program. I'm sorry it's been a lot of work. There was a remarkable work that started at the time, just under the direction of that former Minister of the Interior, Ólöf Nordal, but I must pray to the Supreme Court. Minister to speak plainly. Aside from the police program, I ask: What is going to happen to the prosecution plan, the justice plan and the full plan? Is the law on public finances to be kept behind us and say: "No, we can't continue with these plans? Do I get it right? I think it means a lot to me. Finally, at the time of some overall agreement in the legal security that includes the jurist, the legislator, the prosecution, and the most important element, all of a sudden, is set aside a very important and remarkable work done across institutions. Much consultation and much work have been done. What, then, will they do? I think it's important that we speak here clearly, that in these last days, we do not need to be spoken clearly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u104	A respectable president. Yes, it is necessary for a person to speak clearly and the laws on public financial matters to require that a minister guide his policies for the issues and issues he is responsible for and that it be established to the full scope of the matter. This is in the text of a financial program that will soon be submitted. It will explain the purpose and policy to the next five years, including the following one. in the public and justice field. The Ministry of Justice has put the priority in public and public security policies. It's in the top priority. That work has begun. It is unreasonable to conclude that the level of work proposed in the legal and other programmes will be put aside - all of this work will be used in the public and legal policies at the Ministry of Justice. It will be submitted this year. We have every reason to believe that such a plan will be established this year. The same is true of all other departments. Official financial laws require that every subject on the subject be set up on such a course. At least the minister here has no intention of working according to the laws of law. I'm going to make it right and make it very clear that all the great and good work in the Ministry, and they had the P.I.P.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.A. is not being done, but will be used and based on it when the plan is introduced to the public and legal security field.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u105	A respectable president. The purpose of a joint exploratory test at the elementary school is to, by permission of the President, from the Regulation: ▪ As far as possible, to what extent the qualifications for primary study materials have been met in the respective study articles or studies, as a guide in the emphasis of individual students, Give students, parents, schools, and educational authorities information on the academic achievements and academic status of students, provide information on how individual schools and the whole school system consists in the study articles and study classes being tested. In addition, it says, by permission of the President: To the extent that teachers or school directors consider beneficial, the results of a test should be used in organized study and teaching, taking into account the right wishes of students and their parents. There is now another Regulation that conflicts with the purpose of this Regulation on the implementation of a uniform test that requires its use of the results of a uniform test as an additional data as to whether a student is getting a high school education. Now I think it's good to take the discussion only from what we know who took the uniform test as they used to be, where the concerted test was about going to high school or not. They don't do that anymore. However, by setting a regulation on the use of the integrated tests that have been used, they have been converted back to this so-called risk test, which is what was being tried to avoid by the change to be an exploratory test, not as they have been. Well, there's been a lot of changes since I asked. The meetings were consistent with the tests they carried out. I'll ask the secretary, the Minister's discretion cancels the regulations in Regulation No. 1199/2016, which requires this change in the rules of admission of high school students, allowing higher schools to use results of integrated tests as additional data with student admissions? In the media, the head of the Versaille School precisely - according to the information I received during the last term of the General and Education Committee on Regulation that the results of a uniform test could be used, the directive was made for the School of Versailles - that they were useless because Education doesn't give all the results on a single board to the school but each student must return the data. Not everyone will return the data, and this will be useless as a reference tool to decide whether the student will be able to enter school or not. It seems that this extra rule is simply useless. So, then, won't a minister cancel it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the inquiry. As noted, exploratory tests and their implementation have been considerablely under discussion during the past few days, but there were significant challenges on the project, i.e. The Icelandic and English exam in 9th grade. As a result, I started work within the Ministry and preached a meeting held last week with representatives from the students, the school principals of Iceland, the partner of the basic school teacher, the Union of Icelandic rural associates, the Society of Education, Home and school organization, the Children's Directorates, the National Institute of Education, and a group of experts on the implementation of joint research. The aim of the meeting was to make a decision on the next steps involved in the performance of the tests. It was considered that the tests should be permanently invalid, kept again for all students, or published for the students who completed their exams, and that they give all students the choice of trying again. As a matter of fact, the last possibility was chosen, and this decision was made under the guidance of students'interests. It was a very helpful meeting, and it should be noted that different viewpoints were agreed on possible routes to the situation. A respectable president. I believe that results of a joint exploratory test should provide students with a clue about their own academic status in certain study articles and study classes that are tested so that they can benefit from the results of planning their study further. In view of the fact that this evaluation is done only in 9th grade, I don't think it's right to look at the results of study evaluation more than a year later when they were enrolled in high school. This view is in line with the conclusion of the meeting where the unanimous conclusion became unfounded to use the test results in evaluating high school applications. I feel completely at peace with this point in high school society as well as in high school. This leads to a second question. Councilman to determine whether the Minister intends to issue regulations in Regulation No. 1199/2006, on the change in regulations for student admission to high school, No. 1150/2008, who allows higher schools to use results of integrated tests as additional data with student admissions. My answer to that question is yes. Work on the regulation change is already under way and on the final meters in line with the above results at the consultation, that the results of a joint follow-up test in 9th grade will not be used in evaluating high-school applications. In addition, I would like to add to my opinion that in view of the sequence of events and the discussion of the integrated exploratory tests, I would like to ask myself, " What better things can be done and what needs to be fixed in the big context? ' It's, for example. It is clear that there are conflicting opinions on consistent exploratory tests, objectives, and purposes. A respectable president. It is, therefore, probably a matter of the ideologies behind the law on a consistent test, even though it is not related to the implementation of the tests today. At the former meeting, it was decided to set up a group of stakeholders who would suggest a future policy on the structure of integrated exploratory tests. That job was started immediately in the Ministry, and I can inform the body of Congress that the appointment letters for the group were sent out today. We have to study basic schools, actually the whole school system, and wonder how we prepare students best for the future. Society is changing. It's perfectly normal that the school system changes with it. It is my hope that the arrival of all the above parties will result in a successful solution that will make the education system better for the future. I look forward to hearing what I have heard. Councilmen discuss these matters today and also want to state that there is a rich will in our society to improve our education. It is a long time to emphasize the value of reading and education in Iceland. The opportunity to further the education system is now. Let us use it to the future and be guided by the fact that education is available to all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u107	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the exact answer to the question of the question. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, asks if the same procedures will be used in a consistent test taken in the autumn of 2016 because of the children who are starting high school here on land the next fall. The question is asked because in the alleged uniform tests suddenly scheduled in 9th grade but not 10th grade, the children had to make one common test per day or two. In some schools, children had to make computers themselves so that some form of electronic testing could be carried out. It seemed to be a little after the practicality of how this was performed. [[The president calls.]] You wonder, " How will high school care for these matters regarding the children that begin in the fall? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u108	Mr. President. I think that we, at least most of us in this room, can agree on the importance of examining students' positions, on the one hand, for the students to know where they are studying, but more so for us as a community, to get some standard on how our school system works. In my opinion, these cases have not been well enough lately. Uncertainty about how a student's test will be carried out is, of course, intolerable to students, just how to prepare and what to assume, how to use the results. That's why I'm glad to see how much I love it. A minister has dealt with the issues now following the failures that occurred during the uniform tests. [[The president calls.]] I welcome the wide range of consultations that are taking place here because I think it's absolutely important. The tragedy for young people in Iceland who are going to have a test has to be there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. Foreman and chief. Minister for the answers. This problem with the uniform tests has been like a bruise in the nation for some time now. You ask yourself, if uniform tests are not intended to be in high school for exactly what they are, and if there are other and better ways to evaluate the skills of students, and if there is any reason to trust teachers more in this ability in consultation with parents and students themselves. Tests start to lead an independent life. It's gonna be this kind of system that feeds itself. School is not primarily a matter of evaluating qualifications but of finding skills and improve ability. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u110	V.E.G. President. Thank you for this discussion and thank the Minister for the clear answers and quick response to the issues of a consistent test. I remember when I was in school, a little while ago, when tests were in harmony with my youth's horror that I almost freaked out. They treated me very badly. At that time, they were different. There has been significant discussions at the council on school matters. We talked about PISA or reading ability here this winter. I thought that was a good discussion. I'd like to ask the Minister what I am and what we in my company are interested. It's about industrial and technical studies where there's no special charge for this study, and somehow it's always been adjourned. Does the minister see the possibility of a change in his education so as to gain a special meaning thereafter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u111	Mr. President. It's a good inquiry, it's great to hear an answer. Secretary of education and this discussion and the common understanding that appears to be in the Senate Hall. I'd like to get this information out of privacy, i.e. You have students who have to take this test, it's mandatory. They can also face the fact that the results of the test are used so that they can continue their studies. First of all, that's not good. Second, as for tests in general, let's just watch them. These are some kind of final tests on where the student stands, and there is no specific record of where individuals are in their abilities. Okay, you understand that the public wants and, on some basis, you need to gather information to see where this all is headed, but this is not a good thing for the student to appreciate. If that's the point, if I have children at school, I think it's a good idea that it should go away from the way of allowing this to be a basis for high school. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u112	A respectable president. It is possible to talk about this matter based on what it did, the content that has been criticized for many years, and the natural purpose of keeping these tests. Really, there is no room for debate about the importance of their purpose. A consistent test has a very good purpose for students. But as soon as they become a stunt test, they fall apart. At that time, they stop doing what they have to do, being a quality check on the school for the student. The student's ambition is to take the study in an honest and good way and to try to finish it well, that is the student's criteria for the education he has received. Yes, it is definitely dependent on certain limitations of the test. But that does not minimize the device it is supposed to be for the student. Therefore, this must not be a threshold for the future, as I am glad that this Regulation is being canceled. Now, we should look to the future with regard to this consistent reconnaissance test. It's not a risk test, it's not what it was. We must not use the story as we know it in uniform tests. This works differently. It is a valuable tool for a student. This is actually the right of a student to get quality surveillance on the school system to show who was not doing it. The education system did not fulfill its responsibility to educate the student. It is also interesting to mention the ability to perform electronic tests, but even though they have done what they did, they have shown some very good measures to take care of it. [[The president calls.]] However, it might be necessary to do better for the schools so that they can do their job and offer electronic tests.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-19-40.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. Congress members for very good discussions and comments that came up here. Let me first mention the 2016 tests that I need to take a closer look at them. We're just finishing this regulation change just these days, and I hope we're gonna be able to understand it a little bit more on our website, but this is something that needs to be checked to see if we can get to these tests or not. I don't have the answer right now, and I don't want to comment on it until I get a clearer legal interpretation of the case. I hadn't realized this, so I really appreciate the tip. I agree that it is extremely important to have a sense of view. We need to eliminate uncertainty. Well, we're a lot of people who are saying that when these tests were moved from grade 10 to grade 9 to grade 9, I was actually in the 9th grade when I took these tests, and I want to say it -- we often express it as if these were the final tests, but we can't forget that these tests have been passed down in the 9th grade are exploratory tests and should not be auditions. All who have expressed themselves about this in the school community and in these large areas of consultation agree with this view. I think the project is now taking better care of our organization, the purpose, and the best use of our school systems. I want to look to the countries that have done their best and that in recent years and decades have advanced their educational systems. Clearly, we need to do better. Despite this uniform mess, I'd like to try to use it as well to better control this project and increase the awareness of our educational system. [[The president calls.]] With regard to theVIS articles, work, industry, and occupation, we've increased the money to them, and I can get more and more information about it. A senator of that matter.
