ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u1	Borist has a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 221, about the territory of the government, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u2	Mr. President. Last night at the council, a powerful speech was given. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir, the daughter of Bjorn, of the terrible conditions in the war - torn Syria and the Yemen, of the weakness of the international community in stopping the atrocities that exist there. Let's talk about it. A senator moved many. The secretary - general of the United Nations recently said that there was a place to find hell on earth. Mr. President. It is more important to note that Iceland's people have been involved in this war, that Icelanders have contributed to the slaughter of children and teenagers with weapons delivered by Icelanders. Under the mark of a little peaceful Iceland under the flag of Iceland, weapons poured into the hands of savages who kill innocent citizens like drinking water. Twenty-five missions on a large cargo plane, not with supplies, not with food and medicine, not to save lives, missions to kill more, 170,000 mines, 2,000 rocket launchers, 850,000 ammo, 850 machine guns. Mr. President. This is a great scandal. Iceland's international commitments are ignored, contracts are broken. It doesn't mean anything to drink cocktails in New York, sign contracts, and then throw them away. Just what are these people doing that is supposed to make sure that we fulfill our commitments? Mr. President. It's about time, like, once in Iceland, that those who authorized this transfer under Icelandic flags, government officials, will be held accountable. Iceland's reputation has been delayed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u3	Mr. President. Same thing. Now, a vast array of weapons have been exposed to Saudi Arabia by government permission and perhaps to the Yemen and Syria. This is especially serious, especially since, among those that Iceland can contribute to peace in the world, there is humanity, peace, and relief efforts, and to walk ahead with good example. This is, therefore, not a legal matter, but a political and moral matter. The government has a large educational obligation when it comes to informing such matters and compiling a list of such transports. At a meeting of the State Department this morning, it was observed that at least In the past three months, such transfers have taken place in the time of the present government. Ten stories in the RUSU say the highest. Prime Minister, with permission of the president: So there is a possibility that this particular airline has applied for a new release. In view of this position, the Ministry of State today has given negative counsel on this exception. In English, Mr. President, it means that the decision was made to stop this case because it was discovered in the media, not because some kind of moral vision occurred at the government table. The following is the subject: There were weapons taken to Saudi Arabia by government permission and perhaps from there to Yemen and Syria. I suppose they'll use to destroy and kill innocent people. The lucky ones have fled many times and have taken refuge in other lands. And in the name of humanity, we have accepted some of them but have rejected others because we do not trust to do better. Mr. President. This is hypocrisy, likely on the contrary to the international convention. We need all the information on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u4	Mr. President. We get in on the table one sentence after another over the situation, and in some places, the system is clearly falling, and everywhere a snare is called. I'll supply the transport system, where we know of dangerous and unsurpassed roads across the country. I mention electrical energy transport systems, I name the school system, I mention the surveillance systems that never seem to work, and institutions that repeatedly get away with the decision of a minister. I am referring to a review of the National Reconclusions of Our Health System, which directly states that Iceland's Medical Insurance simply does not have the necessary expertise to handle the analysis, preparation and monitoring of negotiations and that negotiations were made which are not in accordance with the law. Mr. President. It's not okay. I am reporting a military transfer to Iceland that the government chose to approve, Mr. President, chose to accept. Why is this? Who's to blame? Yes, the political party that has been in almost uninterrupted in republicry, the political class that is still in power, now under the cover of the left green. Just before a council meeting, it was reported that the government had only barely escaped, but the fact is that Member States with 67% members of ASI want to cancel their agreements. Mr. President. The government is unable to establish social stability, it is unable to earn money to improve the standard of living, and it is threatening economic stability. What will all of us do to cope? How will we meet people's demands for a better standard of living? Don't worry, Mr. President, the highest. Prime Minister will appoint a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u5	A respectable president. This morning we met at the Foreign Affairs Committee, where we were given a sound discussion of the sad situation that we have seen today. And how once again it turns out that there are the media that properly communicated it, it was Barp who told us about last night that an Icelandic airline was moving data to war - torn countries killing innocent people. It's striking, Mr. President. But who is responsible? This is where the Transporting Agency has been clocked for the accessories sent by Air Atlanta to transport military data under the Icelandic flag. The fact is, the highest political responsibility exists. A secretary of transportation who was a guest at our meeting this morning through the phone. The response was immediate, and it is well. It's good that we stay awake and want to deal with this. But why after 25 shipments of military evidence that we know about now? It was the third request that there be transporting tears in the house of tear, or that I don't know where, that at once they were stopped, saying, "No, but here, and no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Now they know something. We're getting away. We have to stop now. It's too far. I call for political responsibility. I'm calling for the highest. The prime minister who controls the present government will begin to assume responsibility for what is going on around us. And to the highest. A secretary of transportation will begin to show that he is the one in charge and in charge of the Association. It's about time, chief. President, to shoulder the responsibility and political responsibility that should be here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u6	Mr. President. Lately, we have heard that the Icelandic management regime has been self - controlled and has handled even more serious things without comment, ignored important procedures, and even ignored laws and regulations that have no meaning, or even just the meaning that is appropriate for each occasion. Last night another case was informed, more specifically involved in Icelandic airlines and at the same time in the United States, with massive arms transfers to Saudi Arabia, from where weapons were taken into the hands of terrorists. We know this because it was a weapon produced in Eastern Europe, but the Swamp army was used only by U.S. weapons system. We also know this because the serial number of weapons in these shipments has been found on used weapons in many parts of Syria. Mr. President. These were not new information for me, but I participated in this study for about a year ago. Three years ago, this information was published then. The indifference to the release of information back then was complete. In the world, there was no response to arms attention to $1.5 billion, which was done with the complete blessing of Western countries, usually with the signing of each Kingdom minister for itself. In Iceland it appears that this has been delivered quietly, in the same office, with no consciousness ministers. I ask: How can it be said that I have had this shipment of shipments among others since 2015, comparable to those who have been brought to a U.S.A., and blessed by the Icelandic government if they have carried themselves completely out of knowledge until yesterday? I'm asking if it's not time to fix these laws, fix this rule, put ourselves under the Warsaw Treaty, and put us under full force to stop the global arms trade. Above all, I ask, are we proud of our contribution to world peace when hundreds of thousands of land mines have been delivered conscious and willing by the European government and brought into the hands of terrorists?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u7	Mr. President. In leading up to the important contracts of the labour market, existing collective agreements, news yesterday of the expansion of the government as it is, the main focus is the increase in unemployment improvements and the increase in pay payments. In no way do I minimize these important matters, Mr. President, but you ask yourself, " Where is the rise in disability and in terms of recovery? What are some measures to resolve the disability of a man - made poverty trap that surrounds them and to show that a person in such a situation cannot move anything less than to suffer financial punishment? Where are measures to improve the slow income of the child's low income family by increasing the characterization of the lowest income groups and connecting the character extract of the pay sheet to the current level of consumer prices? True, some of these factors are rather dull. It is said to have a conversation, but then you can ask: " Where are the measures to strengthen the improving systems most supported by the sufferers, the growth reform system, the children's recovery system, the rent - repair system, etc.?? Mr. President. In view of the importance of these collective agreements and the need for reforms in this matter, I allow myself to say that I had hoped for an ambitious play on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u8	A respectable president. Tomorrow is the International Day of Commendation. So I'm going to take a little advantage of today's happiness. January 24th. The request was to be canceled by the members and nine other members of the council. The purpose of the request was to sum up the indications on the various hooks and churches of the administration that appeared in the General's research reports and to explain how this indication had been carried out, Congress and nation for information. What happened when the report request was taken over was a little unusual. The secretary of finance is in his speech and calls the request a misdemeanor. Other council members urged to retract or change the report. I agreed to listen to people's ideas and asked that the subject be decommissioned in order to listen to their ideas. During the next few weeks, I pushed to see that there were some ideas that change, exactly what the criticism was all about, in every way that the request was under advised, but nothing happened. So I asked for this from the council last week's work to be reexamined. As a result, however, people accepted me, and I had some excellent ideas from my mouth. paritaprevir The bear of the Birgir Ármannsson of a year. One of the ideas was just very good, I wrote it into the report request and it'll be on the council schedule tomorrow, or I hope you'll read it and everything goes well. So I just wanted to commend myself for my cooperation. Despite the fact that she started a little truffle, and rather rigidly walked in front of her, Pirantars take objective criticism no matter who's critical, we don't need the Ministers' chairs to secure cooperation. So, I just want to encourage you to do this more often, maybe the minus the maestro and the minus the stiffness business, but it was still a partnership. Of course, we will learn from it and will do better next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u9	Mr. President. I'm going to do the same thing as the last speaker. In particular, I would like to commend the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee for a very subtle reaction to our wishes on the Committee to review the arms transport. It's a promise that we're going to improve business here. I especially thank her for that, for she's done well, at least as much as she's a member of the council. But the same cannot be said of Icelandic government. The meeting of the State Department this morning was a cause of disappointment, I must say, but it also made a big surprise about this matter. It is as if the left hand of the Icelandic government does not know what the right is doing in all of this. This isn't the first time we've discussed possible weapons transport through the country. We'll all be able to discuss the possible nuclear launch on Icelandic soil. Didn't the Icelandic system cover how to move weapons to the country, or to have Iceland as an intermediate? Where are the alarms? Where is the control system to deal with what this case reflects? Me and the Icelanders do not respect our international commitments, it is quite tragic, especially when it comes to promoting human kindness, mildness, and peace in the world. Then there's the highest. The minister of the state of the country, in every country, is fine, I think he should be there as much as possible. But he is particularly concerned about the Yemen, and then he returns to the demolition system. Like I say, the left hand doesn't know what the right hand does. Me and the Icelanders have to start to accept it, especially at the high Council, to respect international commitments. When it comes to that, we must have it as our guide in our foreign policy. And for us, who are advocates of Western cooperation, especially in security and defense, it is sad to experience such setbacks. It's like people don't wake up until the news show triggers people. This shows especially that we need to support the media, preferably the free media in our country. [[The president calls.]] As we examine our international commitments, we must remember that we are fighting for democracy, freedom, peace, and humanity in the world. Don't forget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u10	Mr. President. There is reason to agree with many of the senators who have spoken before, but I come up here to call the council's attention on a different matter, since there were not many days since the State actually gave up its post in Arion's bank until it became clear that all that we in the Middle Ages had warned about this matter is coming true. Just a few days later, in the same week that the state sold its share and released its hand from the bank, it was the assessment of bank counselors Arion that 80 billion dollars can be taken. Get out of the bank in the form of interest fees, 80 billion dollars, one new land hospital. In addition, during the day, as noted by the bank's daughterhoods, they are worth far more than they are recorded in the books of the bank. The entire mass of fluctuates to the exact way it was warned. However, the Icelandic government, in each step, has interpreted the request of these parties in their favor but interpreted the rights of the State in a way that may now be limited, i.e. When it comes to the defense of the public interest, they don't trust in it, and they see all the want of it. When the hedge fund, a notorious hedge fund even, demands that there be no turning away from the plans that have been carried out here in the past few years, neither do men rely on protesting. It has become clear, then, a respected president, that the Icelandic public has lost tens of billions of dollars on how this government has handled Arion's banks, has likely lost at least one new land hospital or another compared to the amount in this regard. It's a big concern, Mr. President, that we'll be stuck with a government that can't defend the fundamental interests of the public in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u11	A respectable president. As noted earlier, the Foreign Affairs Commission held a good meeting this morning, with a great contingency among members of the Committee that there was a serious offense in the system to be dealt with. I am very pleased with the response of both prime minister and secretary of transportation who are making adjustments and adjustments that we are not going to accept because we will not and will not accept that the Icelandic government will somehow bring war effort against its citizens. It is important to make changes in performance and behavior, subject to the Department of Transport, and then get the committee to follow through on it. A minister had a clear idea to reevaluate and reevaluate the process in a way that enables us to accomplish more fully the international commitments that we have under way and to serve as our special place. Our contribution in the world, and our uniqueness includes. Peace, human rights and equality. We're not going to accept this. It is important that work be accelerated, as is the review started at the Department of Transport. I trust that at the council we will follow closely and that the transport committee will respond to and monitor the changes that will be made. We condemned these wars. But I agree with what was said at the Committee meeting that the State Department of State has to do better. While proposals came from government officials in the Ministry for a regular consultation, the Ministry of State has far more insight into international affairs than the Department of Transport. That is where we need to let the government work better together because this is not something we are going to accept.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u12	A respectable president. I want us to look at those who have trouble having children here. Here, society does not meet people with fertility problems at all. For the first bottle or assisted reproductive technology, couples pay at least half a million dollars. But the state pays about 200,000 dollars. for the next three treatments and then no more history. If a child is a parent, there is no assistance in getting help from society, and it pays for all the expenses. In the lands around us, there are support for people who are struggling to have children all the other and greater, and in many places the first three treatments are fully paid. What is more appropriate during this tender day when we feel that the first rod of spring begins to appear than just taking into consideration a new life? What is our most common picture of a beautiful human life except where children play the lead? From childhood, most people assume that when they grow up, they develop a family and become parents. So when people discover that they need help with having children, they are deeply shocked. It is estimated that 1 in 6 suffers from infertility problems. Not everyone is lucky enough to be able to fulfill his dream about descendants without the assistance of technology, and we face a difficult march of hope and frustration. We all know someone who has wrestled or struggled with this problem. Already, the aging of the nations is a major problem of Western society in demographics and childbearing as well. Under these circumstances, it would have been considered both reasonable and normal to help people with such problems that I am here discussing, economic practical. But there is something else. This group is out of atrial in the health system, but they are silent because these problems are shy with many, and most people keep their grief silent and go to one treatment after another. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. This group is significantly divided by the health care system. We need to do better, much better for this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u13	A respectable president. I would like to use this opportunity to advertise the economic policy of this government. It is hidden in at least, if it is found somewhere. Actually, I don't think she exists. We've been working on a budget board to review a Senate resolution to finance policy where each stakeholder after another will come to us and warn us of the woes ahead; the economy is getting cold much faster than we ever thought. The leaders of financial policy are by no means successful. The national interest forecasts that work out are not successful. The earnings that work on the end of the day don't last. Still, expenses continue to be added, and the last development of this government was in order to intertwin agreements to further expand their spending budgets. It's a good thing that has been successful in ensuring the extension of collective contracts for the next ten months, but I'm more concerned with the foundations of this economy, the foundations of the economy we're on here. Where is government policy when it comes to that? It is very clear that our export branches are choking under the current state of ganghood. Their competition has come to an end. We no longer build up our economy on growing export incomes. This is about to become a rather informative plan for the government. I would like to know how the government, along with what it still goes on to increase the cost of employment, continues to increase the cost of unemployment insurance that is supposed to pay, to live up to its promise to reduce insurance costs. There is a complaint against the fact that it is the basis for a significant decrease, or rather the debt of the government of the industry. [[The president calls.]] Promises have been made, but it will be difficult to see how they can be maintained. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u14	Mr. President. It was reported a few days ago that about 53,000 salmon, 160 tons, were killed when a storm broke out in a seashell. This information provides the company itself. It does not appear possible to receive this information confirmed by public surveillance agents that are not located in this large and growing range of fish breeds. This is totally unacceptable, and not in accordance with the wishes of the local people who have spoken from the beginning for professional and well - defined surveillance. It took 13 days for patrolrs to reach the west and to pay attention during or indeed from Selephoss. Is this the setting we want to live in this new and powerful industry? The article is not controversial, as one knows. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Based on the environmental risk and monitoring factors. A former marine leader had declared that the fish farm manager would be located on the ice. Now it seems that the words are ignored, and the explanation is familiar. There's no money. However, they dove up for the same party in Reykjavík. What good work is going on there? This is a lost cause, and the government has to pull up its pants. It will never be satisfied with the article until governments move forward and hold forward in a more responsible way. Of course, the requirement is that a surveillance provider is always located at the scene where the production takes place, where professionally it is possible to report if something goes wrong. Mr. President. It's the locals' will. They face suspicions and prejudices toward the work and want to be careful at all levels of production and monitoring. In this regard it appears that the work of the Institute of Geography does not have the superiority of professionalism or quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u15	A respectable president. It must be said as it is that it is unlikely to have stood here in the Assembly Hall yesterday and to speak of the shame and responsibility of the states responsible for the war and of the disaster in Syria and Yemen, and to encourage us to come into the assembly and the Icelandic government to speak for peaceful solutions all over the world, and not just speak for them, but use for them, and then look at the part of Kleak on RUS during the night where information came out that the Icelandic government allowed weapons to be allowed from the city of Saudi Arabia from which they could travel to the Yemen and Syria. On the other hand, in the United States and in the United States, for a review of these laws and treaties, the ban is that weapons are taken to those parts of the earth. The matter is fundamentally serious, and it conflicts completely with the values both in the left movement of our green policy and also conflicts with the foreign policy held by Iceland and to promote a policy of peace, respect for human rights, and equality. No, in return, an Icelandic airline has carried weapons to Saudi Arabia, where it is very likely to have spread to the Yemen and Syria. The Yemen and Syria are described as the slaughter houses of the world by the provisional head of the United Nations. There must be a question on every rock here, a clear message that Iceland does not permit any access to the international convention laws that we have attended or to arms transport that bites in Syriac children and women and in Yemen, the principal victims of these wars.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u16	A respectable president. It's hard to come up after the last speaker, it was really a word at the moment. I'm going to make an observatory. This week I received the answer to a request for social and equality minister on birth grants and payments from a birth policy fund. It shows that nearly 12,000 individuals received payments from the system last year, with 91% of these from a feeding orbs reserve. The rest was given birth powers outside the labour market and the birth certificate of students. In 2017, 470 people obtained a birth scholarship outside the work market at a value of 74,926 p.m. per month. There were 373 women and 97 men. They're people with kids. Some are people who make other incomes, but not all of them. At least I sincerely hope that the 24 girls in this group who were under 20 years of age have a good backland. The good news is that since 2011 the number of those who receive only birth levels has decreased proportionately. Is that a fair system? Yeah, the rules are pretty clear, the court's done. This is because they have been at work continuously for the last six months before they have taken their birth vacations. Whether the individual has spent three or four months in a job market or even years continuously in a labour market is irrelevant. It's just the system. But is this the most suitable system for individuals and society? When we want to reduce the poverty of a family, would it be appropriate to put some parents in a poverty trap at the birth of a baby? Which is better for the individual, for the job market and for the job, for young people to have children at the end of study or for to go to the job market and every motherhood? Ask anyone who doesn't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u17	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for taking part in this debate that disappears on tenure policy, or aimlessness, of the land owned by the State. Three times, the person mentioned here has proposed a synopsis on the matter. Twice the language was measured, but it has never been decomposed. It can be noted that the reviews received by these contributions were either in the process of paying up the point of the proposal and recommending it or not making comments to its contents. In addition, the budget has repeatedly emphasized the importance of its reports. So I still want to call attention to this important matter that concerns families and communities in many parts of the country and is important. Where government custody is on the hands of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, according to the No. 81/2004, it is normal to direct inquiry to the relevant minister. Again, though, it is possible to wonder whether agrienvironmental minister should be available. Earth's laws require purchases, sales, and other means of government. On the other hand, they do not cover government policy. It may be noted that in 2013 the Environment and Resource Minister appointed a rural and sustainable land use group. The final report by the August 2015 workgroup shows that it is important to shape the government's ownership policies, how to use and care for them, including whether and what soils should be due to their special status in the State, who may be sold and who may rent, and depending on the activities involved. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is there a plan for sale or renting? What is the position of working on accurate land registration of government custody? And when is it scheduled to end? Many lands owned by the State have a unique position on nature, history, and culture, but most farms and parts of the earth are under the supervision of the institutions of the State or its inhabitants who use them for rent - price purposes. It is important that the State pursues a policy, for over the years, there have been many places where people who have wanted to settle on earth, start farming, and settle down have not been provided because there seems to be a lack of work and practices, as well as where earth's provision can be reversed in the absence of innovation plans and tools for the evaluation. V.E.G. President. I'm not going to have some rare experiences, but it's known that much is involved in rural society that is largely based on agriculture and tourism. If the ground comes out of a flat, and there's not a cohesion in farms, it costs a lot. The tweets fail, and new farms need to be developed. It does not have the same methods of selling farms and land for farming. The fact that the state's budget has about 400 land or more of what most are new to farming has great opportunities to strengthen and support the European agriculture of much knowledge and value. In a healthy stock and knowledge of farmers in the land The trend that more and more land goes out of one place weakens the scattered settlements that are important based on geographic grounds and ensures food production and equality to the home. The Kingdom can have a profound impact on all of this, but what kind of land is to be owned by the State and hence which areas are more suitable for private property. Now that there is a particular need for action on climate, I feel that the state is going forward and that the government is meeting agreements with farmers who are already there for forestry. Thus I figure that the government's climate goals can be met, strengthened by structure, supported by industry, and strengthened tourism, beauty, and improved land and much more. Apparently, something has been done to sell and place ground in an apartment and advertise them. There are likely no rules on where and how to advertise. Good soils have simply been dropped because of inactivity on the part of the State. This needs to be changed. So, finally, I want to ask the highest. Minister: When can those in the system be said to be trapped expect answers from the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u18	A respectable president. Thank you for taking the initiative. 4th, including That's the north side. "The Egilsdóttir of Þórunn, of this discussion. We face considerable challenges in agriculture and in the general population. They are of various ways, linked to production, development of development, and related to economic factors that we were looking forward to in the years that followed. It is also linked with international agreements and other matters that we have been discussing in recent years. And it is still a recent domestic agreement, the problem of sheep farmers. The problem is different kinds of things. This leads to the importance of treating this group in a whole way that ensures that land and food production are inhabited and settled throughout the country. A senator came in. I'd also like to mention that in the Treaty of the New Government Treaty, the government intends to investigate ways to set out conditions for land purchases that take into account government policies on development, land use, and natural resources. But that's a little different. Iceland's High School of Economics has made an assessment of apartments owned by the State, which evaluated the pros and cons of setting government stores in apartments. The Council has also produced a land and resource policy on the property of the government, which includes the European Union and the European Union. To the dwellings of the land owned by the state. In October of last year, the Ministry of finance published the main features of a new tenant policy based on the assessment of the Economics Agency. Today, the work is being done by reviewing the comments received and improving the specifications published. I can see that it might be wise here to assemble a financial counseling group that will come to advise on final suggestions. In that group, members of a group could call for a representative of rural society, local government and agricultural services, and even representatives of the local community. This is a work that must be completed as soon as possible. There is no time for reviewing all that the Institute of Economics reports say. The fact that the entire estate of the state is small and does not depend on the Kingdom's fruitage of these assets or the necessary cost of operating the system and that the packaging system has actually been funded by government sales. As it were, there is no longer a sustainable way. But this is just one point on the subject, asking how the camps'system came into this financial respect. There are so many other factors, including structural factors and food safety issues that need to be included. These questions are specifically asked if there are a plan for sales or renting the government. I'm going to start by saying I'm going to join with what. Senator. The government has not been trying to provide answers when it comes to asking if land is available or is needed to sell it, rent it, or in what way it is available to make it available. I'd like to make a special effort to get these things right. Government funds are the largest single land owner in Iceland. In addition to the fact that the reasons for possession can change over time, the premises of possession may vary greatly. These points are intended to take on a new tenant policy. I can say here regarding the land owned by state, that there is no total plan for their sale or rent. We need to sort all these earths out and ask ourselves, " How will I be most organized in behalf of my goals? ' All of this should be solved by a new tenant policy. Regarding work on registration, it is one of the priorities of citizens to complete it, which means completing all possessions, rights and resources in a central map and land information base which is the basis for a targeted policy in this field. That work is well worked, including with a new map and land information base, which has been given the location of the state and, in many cases, with national signals. That work is expected to be completed in the months to come. With regard to those who have waited, as mentioned earlier, this work is only different in individual territories. [[The president calls.]] I've been working on a solution, but I hope it can fit into a more complete vision, which I've been working on, and hope that within a relatively short time, we can respond to what is already happening in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u19	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Engel's Egilsdóttir, however, for bringing up this important issue of government policy for farms. Like what? The proponent was made very clear in the final report of a rural and sustainable land use group in 2015, the importance of the State's developing a clear and public policy for its estates, their measures and their rights, and the interests of neighboring society and society in general. How important it must be, then, that such a course will be made fast and sure. I must be glad that some of this work has started within the Ministry, as shown in the highest court. Secretary of finance. But we must stress that it will be over and over. We must emphasize that this policy, whether it is necessary to rent it or to sell it, will be shaped by an open and good process for decision making. V.E.G. The secretary of finance admitted that small revenues would come in from the rented farms. But isn't it better to get some money than none? Many of these lands owned by the State have a unique position on such factors as nature, history, and culture, but this does not mean that it is acceptable to be unused and desolate. It is essential that the State make a clear answer to which land can be sold, who can be rented, and what measures it will be made. It is important to keep the land inhabited, and it is a disgrace to the State to bring the government down. If so, I have not begun to mention the impact these earths have or can have on environmental issues. I'll come into it better in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u20	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. She's important, and I appreciate it. paritaprevir The mother of Þórunn's Egilsdóttir. I agree with many of the points presented in her case. The government has been under attack for the past few years, which has been called Frastrated. This involves improving them in some way as people have grown smaller. One of the rural groups that are classified as fractured is the Scrotum of Thomson. I'd like to tell you about one example in the Thomson incident of how the State government works in preventing people from shrinking into communities and building fractures. In 1986, on one land in the charge of Thomson, a camp began, and the inhabitants rented the earth from the land until ten years without all workers. In 1996 the inhabitants sought that land be united, i.e. A country next door. All the committees involved agree that it was possible, but nothing happened. That was 1996. In 2001 the inhabitants were asked for the government to apply again for the unity of the earth. This was done, and all the committees agreed to it. After repeated reviews of the case, a letter 2016 finally arrived. In that letter, it stated that there was no point in overcoming the issue and that it had not been since 2013. Still, they still feel that the matter needs to be examined, and still nothing has happened 22 years later since the first one was applied for the unity of the earth. Of course it's completely unacceptable. I think we need to put ourselves in the place of these people, the farmers who live on state soil. Would we like to be treated this way about our bread for life, not answering whether we could continue farming, and it has now been 22 years? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I sure hope that's the best. The minister of finance accepts this matter, as he mentioned here, and I welcome it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir for requesting this needed discussion here at the Hall of Congress as well as at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers for being here to answer. It is obvious that Iceland will exceed its sources for greenhouse gas emissions according to Kyoto Protocol. Iceland is going to have to buy special releases, and it's unrealistic that we can keep our international commitment to carbon emissions in 2020. Iceland is also committed by the Paris Treaty and in order to achieve the objective of the contract, we must immediately begin to bind more carbon than we release. While some of the benefits of agriculture and forestry will not be counted to Iceland's commitments in the treaty, increased carbon binding in soil and vegetation is still an important factor in the battle against climate change. The emissions of greenhouse gases in Iceland are largely due to land use and ecosystems affected by land use. It has two major components, a land that has lost vegetation, and so is the end of wetlands. We can reverse this trend through rehabilitation, deforestation of a land as well as the recovery of more advanced wetlands that we have plenty of. At the same time, these areas need to be carefully monitored and to see the results of these measures so that they can be reasoned that these measures are fully in the covenant at the time of its review in 2020. Although the growth of wetlands has caused a revolution in the last century, the fact is that only 13% of the most advanced land are new and thus have many opportunities. A respectable president. The battle against global warming will not be fought in one field. The government's work on reducing Iceland's carbon record is not only at the Environment Ministry, government property has the opportunity to use the wastes in their management under carbon binding, and it is important that the government's policy for farms be carried out with environmental considerations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u22	A respectable president. I want to say something. paritaprevir Una the Hildardóttir who came up here and took the environmental point at that thing that I let them go just for now. There was a request for this special discussion, and there was a question number two perhaps one of the most interesting, at least from my point of view, since setting a owner's policy, I think I'm sure, I don't have to make any more use of it. It is asked what the situation is on the basis of the accurate record of Earth's custody of the Ministry, and the general government. How interesting it would be to hear an explanation and answer that question! The state has a general policy. The 2012 public tenant policy is only involved in parties falling under the E-part of the State account, i.e. Participants due to half or greater share. The course also states, by permission of the President: ▪ It is assumed that all organizations with which the State has found an advantage in following the recommendations and objectives of the owner's policy will end management and management in the interests of the owner in the community's activities and a responsibilities between these parties based on transparency and clear rules. The rules we have here are ten teams, and they're very general and good, and that may be a question, since it's not prepared for any particular tenant policy for farms whether it's at least Trying to follow the general standards, though, that we have in mind. I'd like to reiterate the environmental point presented earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. Þórunn Egilsdóttir for bringing up this issue, which is so closely linked to rural development in the country. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for his answers earlier. We're here discussing the provision of Kingdom property, farms, about 400, if I heard it correctly, and whether these countries will remain in their arms. V.E.G. The minister of finance has again discussed forming a counseling group on this subject. I heard a case at the top. Ministers that there were some of these who had been involved in this matter so far. I'm happy if there's a government plan for renting or selling on the property of the state, especially the population. I'm glad this course is clear. Many earths have a unique position when viewed by natural quality or natural beauty. Selling farms owned by the State requires careful sale. I'd like to point out that it's important to our communities that these lands are new and not go down in the hands of the State. If the decision is made to sell government guards, we want it to go into an open, transparent business process. We want to be careful about these matters. It is the policy of my party, the Gangs of the people, to keep the country all in settlements, flourishing settlements, and to be used by citizens for agricultural purposes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u24	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Egilsdóttir A great deal for this important discussion, as well as for the most clear answers. A minister I like to know is good. We at Homeland feel strongly that the government's tenant policy will be developed on this subject. But as a prince, I would like to know that the state should not be the owner of a land. It is of great importance that we build an environment that will be flourishing around the country, that we have an environment that supports the use of agricultural equipment around the country. That's extremely important. Regarding the formative policy of owners, I also feel it important to bear in mind the conclusions of the committee appointed at the time regarding the Minister of the Interior. This was followed by the discussion of who can buy the world in general. There are some fine guides in which we must bear in mind, i.e. to be equal in judgment, and not discrimination according to nationality or dwelling place. Still, there are rules that can be set as long as we do not treat the nationalities or the rewards of the Icelanders above others. Rather, we should make certain demands. As the commission established by the current justice minister and also a representative of the so - called agricultural Minister, it is important to bear in mind these fine guides in the development of government policy when and if we begin to sell farms, hopefully to farmers to continue cultivating. On the basis of the way we are going to make food supply, we can offer suggestions in court, we can set rules on agrienvironmental matters. But the rules must be general. If we are to allow them to be restricted, they can be based on the following elements: Precautious use, national efficiency, environmental and social impact, local government position, permanence of ownership and land needs, with regard to land use. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think we really have all the reasons we need to be able to shape tenure policy. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to the gratitude of that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u25	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this discussion here because I've twice made inquiries on the subject, but the answer has not been received. According to the 2011 state - to - land regulations, they should normally be arranged for apartments or rented contracts so that they can best fit the market and agriculture goals. These rules have not been followed in recent years. The responsibilities of the state are many interest issues for the community. When the earth is destroyed, it has a wide variety of influences and forms of society that should be least disturbed. It is also an important matter for those who stop farming and often have a direct bearing on the results of their life's work to give opportunities to sell livestock and equipment to those who want to take up the farm. Similarly, having the opportunity to buy livestock and equipment from an existing family is a big interest to the one who wants to start farming on earth. But then there are general interests involving the maintenance of the property owned by the State. The situation that has existed in the past few years is a great lack of respect and understanding for the value of land resources, both natural resources and those built up on land and livestock. As mentioned earlier, great general interests in the administration of Kingdom interests are not limited to the use of citizens for farming. So I'm glad to hear that there is a securities in the process of government planning. She can't stand waiting. For good reason, the state is claimed to be a poor farmer, for regardless of its property and use, a farmer's job is to maintain and build the value of resources on a land he oversees. [[The president calls.]] It involves self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you too. a voter for starting this discussion and the highest. The secretary of finance for his answers and for the light he threw on the journey he thinks can put this matter into. In all matters, I can have a complete mind that the government has long neglected to take Kingdom interests seriously and to answer the questions raised. This is followed by a transfer of the State's Earth Fund between councils where this chain is somehow broken. Of course, the provision system must be made as such to revise with a changed age. I think that's exactly what it's all about. A minister mentioned here when he mentioned the possibility of enforcing a task force, that the campsic system itself must change as well as the campsic legislation in the country as such. Of course, it is far more than just government property, all over the earth. I also believe that it is normal that we reevaluate the social roles of the state. It is natural and important that we remember why the Kingdom is on all these earth. They have, as it has been mentioned, social and social resources, and I think that the objective of new agricultural agreements for innovation and such items has been determined by what was once the Earth's Fund project. Third, I'd like to say that I believe that in a lengthy way we're going to dislodge the government on these lands, sell them, make a deal with those people who are sitting on these lands today, and loosen these assets. I think it's a very good time now to make a campaign for government markets and to prepare well, to strengthen settlements, to make it possible to expand the population, to promote the habitat and to promote agriculture. Of course, self-employment is the strongest and most powerful form of operation of the most important businesses of life, and farmers' independence is always the strongest watchmen in the countryside.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u27	Mr. President. As we have seen, the Kingdom is the largest land owner in this country, taking in many farms, landlands, and lands. Clearly, then, the provision of these assets can have a tremendous impact on habitats and land use within certain areas and, of course, on national level. It is unacceptable that the Ministry of Economics has not yet completed a policy on land in the possession of the state. The seminar has been at the Ministry for a few years, and this is not the first time a discussion of these matters has taken place during the council, so the Ministry should have long been aware of the clear desire of the council to be developed as a owners' policy. Then it is completely unacceptable, as it was observed in the dog. A saying, that although some people have lived for some time, they have not known their place and future. Thus, the State's responsibility is great, and it is not only based on local policy nor on agricultural growth but also relevant for the contribution of Iceland to climate change, but at least Part of these land could easily be used in forestry, healing, and possible recovery of wetlands. In other cases, there is also great opportunity to make use of Earth's geothermal temperature for more food production. Mr. President. It's better to do, and all I believe is that a minister is now taking care of his staff at the Ministry to complete the government policy for farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u28	Mr. President. It's good to have a place to say at the top. Secretary of finance here on this matter. He is the Ruler of a Kingdom, as it were, and it is good for him to hear the stories of how the Kingdom treats people on the earth. V.E.G. A minister mentioned earlier that he would be going to make an effort to shorten even the situation. the time it takes to answer business, etc. And I rejoice to hear it whole. It is also possible to enter the church of officials who have this group on their own and point out that it is a very simple matter to answer it just fast and well. I also want to look at the young people and reinvigorate them in agriculture only when it comes to a Kingdom Hall. There are many examples, and we should rejoice that, for example, we should. The children of the crew want to take over, but then we come to a problem. Young people, as we know them, naturally want to improve their facilities, expand, etc., equipment, and so forth in agriculture, when the young people come to close the doors of the government. The government does not authorize any great buildings, can't be built, and, if possible, can be built on a small scale from the earth. You can see that people want their environment so that they can use the whole country and have something to say when they go to such large projects. The question is, Can't you buy the earth? Yes, if the government allows and in the case of government license to sell land, it will take land away from the soil and supply it with land healing. The whole process of this is very heavy and difficult, and once again I give my highest attention. The minister of finance is now taking a quick, careful approach to solve the situation, making it possible for people to enjoy pleasures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u29	Mr. President. I have been very interested in this matter, such as why. An executive with a detailed query, including To the minister of finance, to the legislature and agricultural minister, and to the Minister of Justice, to the flat on earth owned by the state, which shows the distribution of the matter into the system. In fact, I still have quite a few questions from the Ministry of finance that may be useful at the work that lies ahead. We must agree that it is totally unacceptable for us to see the physical destruction of land simply because the government does not complete its affairs. There are people who want to settle in the countryside but who don't have the chance because they don't have the tenant policy. Meanwhile, we are to look to see that there are in force both submerged and terrestrial laws. As long as nothing else has been decided, of course, by me to abide by these laws. It is, in fact, there. It should be noted that the earth should be advertised. It hasn't been done very long, as we've been traced here. There are a number of things that have not been specifically discussed as a mountain surface and other things to the earth that have gone out of its midst. I believe that we all want to live in the thriving countryside and take advantage of the opportunity to grow the land, protect it, and use it in a sustainable way. We are talking about people's communities, often in large areas. We must not forget that if there are many holes in these areas, this means or can mean that, gradually, farming and leaving will be uninhabited. We need to be careful when deciding that money is not merely a means to go, i.e. that we don't just follow the best offer. Then rich people will continue to buy land rather than ordinary people. The wealthy are all right, but it must be a mistake to sell land for those who do not live in communities rather than for people who want to live there. We're talking about land all over the country, in thriving rural areas, which, of course, are to be sold to sources who intend to live there. The advantage of a nearby community is likely to be that the earth is simply not sold to the highest bidders. We are to consider doing what the Northern Nations have done, their legislation has defined the requirements for landowners both for housing conditions and for the treatment of the resource. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u30	Mr. President. It's been a great conversation so far, and I appreciate it. In the same way, there are so many other factors that a long - term plan is a good and important one. National rights is one of the oldest and most important tasks in politics, so it is very bad that governments and former governments have not been able to form a good long - term plan for this. It is also amazing that there is still no national information system available that shows every land cover and has links to any contracts and agreements associated with them. It's good to know, though, that everything is being done and that it's looking for the better. I agree with a lot of other people. In this treatment it is important to the members of the Parliament that environmental and geographic factors are important. I can quite agree that in some cases it may be normal to take these assets free, but it is important to look to both culture and history. Then I think there are just a few opportunities that are most likely to take advantage of these countries. One reason would be forestry, which many have mentioned, which is one of the main ways to bind carbon dioxide. If we begin large forestry, it is possible to achieve the objective of the Paris Convention, which will probably not be done solely by energy exchange and probably not at all. It is clear that tickets from the Kyoto 2 Convention will already be high, so that it is about to spit in the palms of the hands in terms of forestry. This is linked with high potential for the development of forest development and sustainable development in timbers that also reduce the import and loss of our ability. Above all, we need to look for opportunities for the use of packaging materials, especially those left desolate in connection with the construction and innovation of agriculture. There's a lot of opportunities, let's use them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u31	Mr. President. Only carry on where it had been disappeared. I want in the highest. Secretary of the budget after reply about the timeliness of the tenure policy. Now it's been a long time and it's been like the highest. A minister hears this heavily upon members of the council. All of us here want to build a powerful tenant policy that has the goal of our country being inhabited, cultivated, for whatever use it is, for agriculture or land upkeep, forestry, etc. It's important that we can get a time line. So I hope we'll see a case here before the end of the year. I reiterate what we've been putting on a lot of emphasis, the fact that we're averaging general policies on land management, whatever it is that we can own in Iceland, and then the rules have to be general. We talked here earlier today about international commitments. We cannot use international commitments, such as a box of chocolates. We have to respect them. It also suggests that there is no discrimination on the grounds of nationalities or of the people of Iceland in some form of surrealism. We may also make specific rules designed for specific interests. I'm warning you. I would also like to stress that there is room for us as a country that wants to continue building powerful food production to take into consideration the fact that we enjoy such policies. We have to do this in cooperation with our rural society, and it is also vital that we get their attitude because they affect how our country will be inhabited. Can we relate to these environmental issues, just our commitment to climate? It is very important to keep that in mind. I encourage ministers to have general, transparent rules, rules that everyone understands and is accessible to all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u32	V.E.G. President. I thank all those who have participated in this discussion. It has been very helpful, informative, and informative. It is a joy to see that we agree that this is a great call for a government policy to be set. It is true, the agricultural environment has changed dramatically in recent years. Farmers have more variety of jobs, more variety of jobs. It is thrilling to see all the work farmers have done in making up the land. The Kingdom can come in there strong, direct and help with it, and farmers have certainly shown that they are ready for that work. Also, we might ask, " How are we going to renew this profession? ' We know that the peasant class has grown up, and it's getting heavy for younger farmers to take over a farm or get into a farm. Is it possible to create some setting around it on the rich people, to do something around them, so that it would be acceptable for young people who want to receive their farms? Here, a vast number of young, well - educated people, would be able to take over the land, cultivate it, and bring it back to a better condition than we had received. That's what a good farmer does. I don't know any other farmers than those who have the goal of fixing things around them. I welcome the words of the secretary of finance that he is now about to make an effort to answer people, that people will start to get answers that have been uncertain. It is very important that individuals and families know about this. As I say, I'm going to make the woman's words to my wife: "I don't think we have anything to do with agriculture, and I think we should get into this. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u33	A respectable president. This has given us an opportunity to discuss some of the highlights of this large group of paintings, and we have entered, as some speakers, that the state is a great land owner with some 450 soils. The origin of possession is different, varied, it has come about by various factors, including of the church meeting. Sometimes the State came to the aid of farmers who had to live and explain it. Whatever they are, we are faced with the urgent need to complete a job in the tenure. It is designed to form a sort of classification of this property and to ask questions about the need for the possession of the State. It may be part of the property collection, which is simply expensive in business, but there is no clear reason for continuing national property, which is the most obvious example of the fact that the Kingdom should give up the land. Then there are other examples of important agricultural practices. Then we will have to resolve the issues we've talked about here today, whether they'll be offered for sale, rent, or store, and conditions. I'm just going to finish this conversation by saying that I hear a clear call that the management system is doing better in policy activities and simply in response to issues that have been received in this category and will put it first.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u34	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the use of official information. The use of official information means that the public or law will use information for a different purpose than the plan when the public people gathered them together. A fine example of such re-use may be that a company in the tourism business can use information on the location of tourist destinations from Iceland's soils to organize and advertise its movements. So this bill is not about the right to access information but about how to use information that the public can already access on the basis of information or other laws. The rules for reuse are now found in the Bellas. section details, No. 140/2012, which was added to the legislation to implement a Directive 2003/98/EC for re-use of official information. On March 17, 2017, the EEA Convention issued an Directive 2013/7/EU that alters the requirements of the earlier renovations. This bill will introduce the contents of a new directive into Icelandic. Clearing rules on the use of official information serve the objective of the government that public and professional life can draw up unidentified data in one place and that open data will be free and reused whenever possible. In this field there has been some development of the last year, for example, governments have opened a central portal on the web open ground, where the public can access data that is permitted to be reused. However, for the number of data boxes available on the portal and the quality of the data, there is a need to put increased energy on this project, i.e. that there are data that are actually useful to the public in promoting employment and value creation. The objective of the bill is also. to support this trend. Chapter I of the bill contains the goals of the law and the set of values. It is assumed that they will be implementing the European Commission, i.e. State, rural society, institutions, and other government agencies. It is used in the same set-up of values as the law on public purchases. It is then noted that following the implementation of Directive 2013/7/EU, the rules for reassignment, library and archives, including university libraries, will also be taken. Public right to reuse official information is guaranteed in II. section of the bill and of its conditions. Thus, the use of official information is not allowed in any way, nor should it be reused to violate other laws or rights of third person. Four. 1st par. The re-use of the directive is specifically required that such reuse should not be violated by the European Union's personal protection directive. All personal data from the use of official information must therefore be met with the regulations of the personal protection law. It is also not allowed to reuse the protection of intellectual rights under authors, but it is permitted to reuse information that the public has one such rights. Finally, the right not to reuse information that public members of the European Union take together for business purposes, i.e. when their work is part of a competitive business. The bill expects public members to be able to reuse information specific conditions or licences. The requirements need to serve a materialistic purpose. Equal measures should be taken in their implementation, and they must not limit the possibility of excessive reuse or competition. If the bill is legal, the government can set up standard licences for reuses in a foreign model. Due to a defect in the rendering of current legislation on the use of official information, there has been no authority to re-use such terms. Thus, on the central publicized government portal for open data, only instructions can be found, but they may, by little changes, provide the basis for the State's licenses for the use of official information. Officials are then forbidden to allow specialisation for the use of official information except in the exceptional circumstances where the information is not to be reused without permission. In III. chapter 1 of the bill discusses the request for the renewal and treatment of such requests. The re-use directive clearly expects the public to request permission to be reused by a request to the appropriate administration. Such a waiting system is also available by means of Danish and Swedish law. In spite of this, of course, public members may decide to reuse certain information without a specific request. On the central portal of the government for open data, the official list of data allowed to re-use the information should be published. According to the bill you will have to cancel a request for permission to reuse as soon as possible. If there is a delay over 20 days, the candidate should be informed of the reasons why the case is delayed and when it is expected to be made up. After 40 days, it is permitted to pay the bill to the decision-making committee on information matters that determine the right of the candidate for reuse. It should be noted that in the re-use directive the delay is calculated in the currently active days, but with the bill there are additional requirements for public members by counting the deadline on holidays and holidays. When an official member makes information available for reuse, the principle is that it is provided in the format of which they are preserved. When possible, they should be accessed in an electronic, open, and mechanical format along with metadata and in accordance with formal open standards. Official sources of remuneration were confined by Directive 2013/7/EU. In the past, government agencies were forbidden to collect a higher price for reused than required for their treatment costs, as well as a fair profit share. However, main policy will now be forbidden to collect profits but will be limited to the direct costs of the government's benefits. The bill emphasizes that currency is needed only when it is needed. Thus, only according to the published registration of an official party and the prime minister have confirmed. In most cases, this rule will lead to reimbursement without a special fee. This will also lead to the fact that the public will not accept a special fee for reprisal of information over which the official government has the right to act. In accordance with the re-use directive, as amended by Directive 2013/7/EU, it is mandatory to guarantee permission to inform the official decision to refuse permission to be reused. The bill assumes that the decisions and other controversies on the use will be permissible to the Committee on Information, but this is not expected to result in a significant increase in the activities of the Committee. Another matter is whether a ruling committee especially needs to be strengthened to carry out the work she already has, of course, the work that she already has. The agreement with the bill was such that it was published on the board of directors' Web, January 23, 2018, and requested comments, but the bill was sent specifically to National Archives and Regional Archives for comment. Reports were received from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, Iceland's National Library, the National Archives of Reykjavík, the County Library of the East, and two individuals. The contents of this report are explained in chapter 5 of the article with the bill. A respectable president. This bill aims to implement the minimum European Court rules for re-useing official information and measuring them in a specific law column. Thus, both individuals and lawyers should be able to better identify their legal status and how to apply themselves to obtain permission for reuse. This is in accordance with the government's policy of stressing open administration and transparency. I have no further comment on the bill but suggest that it be referred to a management committee and a follow-up committee and a two-year bill. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u35	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for a presentation on the bill; this quickly works on me as a very positive one. I must say, though, that when I started to read it, it was not quite as positive as I had hoped it would be, but certainly positive. I'm wondering about the requests. Any person who wishes to reuse official information is expected to have the official requests for the material to the public. The bill's report shows that this is the case in Danish and Swedish law, but Norway has the right to reuse all the information that the public has a right to access. No particular requests for reuse are anticipated. V.E.G. Only the trial was instituted by a minister, and it is revealed in the bill, when such requests are received, how it should be handled, timed, and all of this. It all works very logical, so to speak, but I wondered if it wouldn't be easier to just let go of this and have it as it is in Norway so that it doesn't need special requests. It is best if the general citizen who is interested in making use of the data can simply use it. As soon as it takes some contact with the authorities to build a barrier that doesn't work for us here who know but write a person's character, I lay it down, and if you have to have an institution that doesn't have manpower or time or what it takes to answer the requests or to be in contact, if that's unnecessary. If they succeed in Norway, I wonder why this is being done differently here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this good question. Norway has a system different from the rest of the North countries, and that is why Denmark and Sweden are specifically discussed in the report. Norway, for example, has been authorized to re-use all the information that the public has the right to access, and it is not expected of this particular request for reassessment. The reason: Yes, Norway is simply the foremost class in the field of information law. The Norwegian government has published its own initiative a list of data on matters they have for the treatment of a special site, an overimmunity of an eleconiumurl -- I hope it had a good Norwegian accent. This has not been as far as published as the government's initiatives and in Norway and our legal environment are then more comparable to what happens in Denmark and Sweden. However, it is recommended in 2 mg. 13th par. Information that governments are working hard toward that goal. I want to say it here, because of what. A senator mentioned this, that I believe we should be heading there. A planned review of information layer hopefully makes this environment better than it is today, and I hope it will succeed in this terms-of-the-day period. This work has already been initiated on my part at the Ministry of Presidency. Then there is the fact that this publication also calls for technical solutions, requiring a certain system change investment. There's something that we have to assume will come at a cost, but it's my opinion that we should pursue this goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u37	A respectable president. I have to say right now, I don't want to record everything in Iceland that happens in Norway. This, however, is one of the things I find admirable and something we should certainly aim to, as it were, to the highest degree. Minister mentioned. V.E.G. Prime Minister mentions 2 mg. 13th par. information song in the bill's report. I wonder if she'll do it. My limited experience in such articles is that they are forgotten, so it is said that they were not activated or something similar. Somehow, though, I doubt that the government in general is reading all the laws and fitting the checklists to work systematically on such matters. This sounds like something that lived in Congress rather than in law, in my opinion. By the way, chief. The minister entered a planned review of information legislation, interesting and I hope it will be of great value. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and ask you the highest possible question. A minister might do a little more details on how she envisions that revision and perhaps a little more carefully expounding on what basis it will be made. What is its purpose? What is the final product? What is the goal? I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to go a little more into it. I think this is an important group of subjects, and it's an underrated case. Such bills are underestimated, they cause much more transparency than they look, because people in general do not really understand what they themselves would use. But people who have access to these data and know how to use them know that they can shed light on very interesting things, such as the examples.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. I agree with what. A senator of what has happened, e.g. with this article, referring to a specific policy, to work progressively toward a goal, it is that in a review of information laws may simply be mandatory. This article was to follow a Regulation that I have considered in the Presidency Department. There, however, there is still much work to be done on how we clearly define this role of the advisers. I hope, however, that we can put that Regulation in force while these information laws are in force and before we make this goal more clear in revised information laws. The aim is to provide automatically indistinguishable information, so it is consistent with the objective of having as accessible public information as possible without taking a personal protection view. That's the goal. It's supposed to be an obligation in the future. However, there are solutions we need to take into account, how this information will be developed, how we will make sure that it is available to all groups of society. One of the points mentioned in the current information legislation is that the information may be accessible to disabled persons. How, though, will we make them available to disabled persons? There is a definite discussion on how we can do so. This is a solution and a project that I think we should celebrate and deal with, and that is, of course, our goal. I completely agree with the senator on what the goal is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u39	Mr. President. I want to begin by celebrating that this bill has come into place, and I think it is a progressive step, and in line with the time, to increase access to information and freedom to exploit information that comes from the government or public. At the same time, I cannot help but mention that this origin comes from Europe and the European Union, like many other good things that run on our shores and that are improving. I want to make it clear that I'm celebrating the bill and I think it's good. However, I would like to discuss just a few things that I think are worthy of further discussion and consider whether the arrangement assigned here is necessarily the best. These points were partly introduced in responses and answers to the delivery of the bill at the highest level. Prime Minister and w. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. I was wondering, for example. Section 3. the bill in which public rights are being referred to in order to reuse public information. It says: It may be decided to make information available in their possession for re-use. Here I would wonder if it shouldn't just stand - should or should make information accessible. We are talking about information that is already official or that is entitled to them. I wonder, because I think we should have the principle then that everything is accessible and then there are exceptions if it isn't. And there may be serious reasons why information should not be available. Head of the fifth straggler. are: specific conditions for the use of official information, and with the permission of the president, the article reads: The use of information meets specific criteria, such as the quality of information and their updates, e.g. by granting reused permission. Such conditions should serve a chemical purpose, should be consistent and equal in their implementation, and should not limit the possibility of exaggerated use of the information or competition. At that time, the competition may be moderate. In this context, I wondered why these criteria should be set for publication or further processing of data. This reminds me of a story I was told when a knowledgeable man was wondering about a number of chickens in Iceland and the only way he could get some information about it was to talk to the Farmers Association or the statistics department of the National Institutes. And, yes, there was no problem, all of that information, but of course it went on, "What are you going to use this for, my friend? I don't think governments have anything to do with what they're going to use because often it's the point of putting it in touch with some other things that can't be provided. I wonder if this isn't necessary. If the data are, the data statements, available whether or not, if they need to set some human criteria for what to do with them. Another site around here is said to be able to guess where they are from, where the source of the information is, what the responsibility is for the production. Of course, it moves from the official side to what cooks the information. The public cannot be expected to be responsible for what is being done with the information, how it is fed. It must be the responsibility of what puts it forward. So this is what I'm wondering about, and then again, that you can start asking for or demand permission, and then you can bring in some guidelines and treatment rates. I don't think it's necessary. This indicates an attitude from the administrative body. These are our files, and we need to watch them, and if they're going to do something about it, we need permission to do it. But this is our property, this information that has been worked and published. I'm really celebrating this case, and I think it's a big improvement. I think we're going to take a lot of steps and, despite everything, we're not very late, what we're gonna say, electronic administration, and we can get examples for others. Norway was mentioned, and I know the basic examples. Ministers mentioned, they are very diligent in publishing data, and they are very accessible. Then, there's Eistar very early in all these matters, and I think we could draw a lot of attention to them in general on how they've used the information technology to improve their administration and to simplify it. But, as I say, if the data are on another level official and close, or can be received behind transmissions, we should not be limited in this way. I don't really see why, what's being taken care of. If the data is public, and all visible and useful, then why do we need to create this action? This speech may be more questions than anything, but I think it's worth a while for us to think about it a little bit, how we want to do it, and I think we should just start a little bit of this as open as possible. I don't think it's dangerous at all. Norway does this. I know that in the United States, the rule is that all the evidence that the government is sending out is fully used without permission for anyone they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u40	A respectable president. It is effective to discuss the legislation on the use of official information at the same time as the General Assembly is opening up information on the council, the travel and work expenses for members of Congress. This case, just as it did for the Generals, is a sign of the times. Information should be available to the public, it should be a general rule, unless anything specific by keeping them closed. This was mentioned in the lednote address that was the introduction to European rules that actually reflected consistent minimum rules, and I think we should keep that in mind. We can do better, we can go further, and I feel that there is good reason for the Council of Congress to consider this matter more seriously and see if the box cannot be extended as it has been entered here in previous talks. There are some factors that you might especially consider. First of all, I'd like to mention here one sentence I ran into in Article 3. The bill. It's as follows, with the permission of a president: The European Commission shall provide a list of data that contain information in the reused holdings as well as the reused conditions. I'd like to read in comparison another sentence, which is as follows, with president's permission: A review of all issues and data in the possession of the official, source and content will be available to all. The second sentence comes from the Council of Government to the new constitution, paragraph 15. ... abouttheexperiencerights. It is a pleasure to see that although we do not have the new total revised constitution, we are step by step taking some of the new words made available in Icelandic. It's been pointed out at 7 st. the bill on the request to re-use information. I wondered if she's not really sticking up to the goals of the law. The goal of the law is to increase the use of public information. To make sure of this, we want that most barriers do not exist. The need to direct a request to the person who has the information in his possession is a threshold to consider seriously turning aside. Also because it conflicts with the experience that has already opened information in this country. In some ways, we are beyond the consistent minimum rules displayed on the bill. Then I'd like to mention a few instructions on the use of information on open ground.is, a report that has, unfortunately, been quite low in recent years. It is simply an open source for reuse. The same is true of Iceland's soil readings, which since 2012 have provided free access and very open to the information contained in the Agency. It allows the information to be reused to meet certain criteria without specifically applying for permission each time. This is significant because, for example, these land data panels are loaded down thousands of times a year. If one of their users had to apply specifically for this, it would increase the pressures in the Agency, reducing the innovations and spades that could arise from the data, and this would simply not increase the use of the information. I'd like to mention this, too, about 10. The bill for reimbursement. It was found in the evidence that it should be the last way to go, but I think there is good reason to consider whether this is not to be taken out, whether it is the only possible currency for the public that it exists and is the contribution of the state to innovation, which is based on the information that is here the idea of adding more use. So I mention again Landigraphy was the license in that case 10 million a year. I think the sceptres that have grown up in that opening are well worth it. I'd finally like to mention something else that might be related to all of this. In the 9th. is e.g. Information format, of the fact that the official organisation should ensure that the information is available in a particular format and that technical requirements are set out to make the data most useful. So I'm once again giving my reference to the National Research Institute has this role in building land information, is a consultant to those who have such data in their activities when it comes to publishing the information publicly, so that they are the most accessible. I wondered if there is good reason for us to wonder whether there is any central equipment, some sort of agency, or just person in the board to help agencies and public agencies, and anyone who wants to provide access to public information, to help these people deliver the data; to have uniform information, to help us with technical application of file formats, and then to keep outside this central database that would be expected to be as well as uniformly done so that we are not able to find the wheeling up at multiple different places once in a day that we are fully tested. e.g. with the open portal open and open.is, we have a national reading with a set of terms similar to the terms of use, and then, as I mentioned, we have published information on the travel and work expenses of our senators but I don't know what terms of application are on the information withdrawn from the General Assembly site. This is simply a matter of looking over the whole area and shoving up the sleeves. This is a group of paintings that have been sailing up in recent years, and we have a pair of lightweight here and there, like the opening of the financial accounts that have arrived in the last semester. But all we have to do is fold our sleeves and be more ambitious if we're to have more in our hands than just consistent minimum rules. As we have seen, we can easily be number one among the states to ensure a clear access to information within the public bodies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u41	A respectable president. First, I'd like to agree with the two of them. Congressmen who spoke here before me. I'd like to explain to you just a few opinions I have on this fine subject. Where should we start? Let's start with 3. This waiting system is described there, i.e. that public authorities are obliged to grant a request for permission to re-use existing information in the possession of the official organisation which the public has the right to access on the basis of information legislation or other laws. A similar arrangement is in the current law in 31 st. Enlightenment, in fact, very similar if not nearly the same, perhaps not quite. However, it is stated that the government may decide to make information available in its possession for reuse without requiring any specific requests. In this connection, I would like to read 1 mg. Section 15. on deck. 5112 of the 141th Parliament, which was the bill of the administration and monitoring committee to the Constitution, based on the Council of the Management Board. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Everyone has the right to access public data. Very elegant line, I really care about her. Then there are three more paragraphs. It is the key message that is to be our guide when it comes to publishing official data because when we talk about government agencies in Iceland, I often feel that we are talking about government agencies instead of republics. We're not talking about society itself. I would think that this is the official evidence that the public has the right to have access to them should be viewed as the owner of the evidence, or one entitled to them, as the public, rather than the state as an independent union, separate from the community. Maybe there's more to talk about the difference between state and republic. More about that later. I asked the highest. The prime minister in question earlier why the system in Sweden and Denmark wouldn't be put in here, it would be like Norway. V.E.G. A minister's response, as a matter of fact, was well answered, but blessed also that we should approach them, even if the legal application was somehow different. I kind of have to read Section 5. All of it, by permission of the President: The use of information meets specific criteria, such as the quality of information and their updates, e.g. by granting reused permission. Such conditions should serve a chemical purpose, should be consistent and equal in their implementation, and should not limit the possibility of exaggerated use of the information or competition. In a hurry, I have to say, I'm kind of against this article over her head, I don't think she should be there. I don't know why public members should set up specific requirements for the quality of information or their updates, trying to create some monitoring for it. If you're going to encourage the public to use these data, that means that you're encouraging the public to experiment with the data. This means that people have to be able to set them out in a way that is different from what you might think. I'll give you a special example that I'm going a little bit more into, that's things.is, which is a web which I specifically urge senators to look at, but also the common people. It has a wide range of evidence about us. Senators. If I look at myself and other senators there, I'll find that some numbers aren't exactly what I would expect. The reason is that when the author of this fine web did this, he may not have been quite the same understanding as we senators put into it what is involved in presenting a matter. Hv. A programmer, who is behind this site, viewed being a cohesive on a case would actually be a conversation with a 1st transporter. But I'm dealing with this fine gentleman, and he's good at my tips. But it's an example of how bad it would be if the Council--by publishing these data on transporters, in what elected senators are, how much we speak and all of this, these data revealed in a General xml format would have a special point, e.g. to make sure that you have these things okay, I think they're less used, I think that would be a problem. I think it's very good that the writer of the band's team can present the data as he pleases without pressing a button to accept something and without having to pay for it, even if it was only a crown. No matter how low the price is, there is a threshold to be paid over the head. I could have some opinion about how the evidence that the Council published about us is new. It's easy to get them wrong, but it's easy to put them in a tiny wrong context. But I just don't see that it would benefit me if I were to interfere. I just think that my involvement, as positive and fantastic as they would undoubtedly be, would be more a distraction than allowing people to play a little bit and make their own mistakes that follow all the computer styles, so important that they are. I'd also like to criticize it to Section 5. I think it's highly ecstatic. It says that conditions should serve a chemical purpose and must be consistent and equal in their implementation; that they should not limit the possibility of excessive re-use of information or competition. Sadly, with some government institutions, far from all but summer, they sometimes feel that they are extremely noble and generous when they give something of themselves and feel that they are most noble and that they never seem to be stepping on anyone when they do something that others think is bad. So I don't believe that government agencies in general see the evidence or work as the public citizen and cannot, never have, never have, never will and never will. In fact, I have to say that some institutions - I'm going to mention specifically the governor - are extremely good at trying what they can do best. It may be the law, the law of the land that we set for them, that prevents them from doing even better. But it is proper to think that some institutions are very understanding of the citizen's viewpoint, but not all of them are. I'm kind of against this 5. Yet at the moment. I expect the committee to do this better, and that, at least, is a little more reasoned than is being done in the report. I don't find it convincing. I'll have to be the computer nerd here in the room, just doing the 9. Which is a special treat, I must say, a very great article. It says, by permission of the president: When possible, access information for reuse in an electronic, open, and mechanical format along with metadata in accordance with formal open standards where appropriate. Now I haven't seen the word "mechanical" since I've been looking for the only true word for what is meant there. But in English one would probably say, with the permission of the president, if you were to get out of here, or something about the same, i.e. that a computer can take the data and work with it somehow. But computers are as we all know in our day - to - day life of bull's folly, and they have no luck with human judgment. Hence, there is a set way for things to be established so that they can understand them. However, metadata is also included in it, the metadata is what is called metadata in English. And as an example, a general body of such metallurgy data on most of the events at the General Assembly, including talks, speech sessions, and members of the council, as I did earlier. It is such metadata that webs, such as things.is use. There's little else to say about 9. But it's great, and you can see more, and you could actually be some kind of principle in the publication of data. It's called a future mouse, which I hope someday will be played loudly and often on every occasion. 10th par. The bill is about currency. I may not exactly object to it immediately, but the payment is an overwhelming obstacle, far greater than perhaps the lawgiver and the government realizes. Granted, we don't have a problem with someone paying for some evidence, and in itself it's not a big deal. Most people have some kind of map that they can use online or something. These charges are not usually very high. However, they completely destroy some coolness that can form, a very good cow, i.e. magazines used to handle information, handle official information and work with them. Again, I'm going to use the Allied Parliament as an example because the data that I think the Council is very good at me and they are good for me, in my Senate work, I use them very much to organize Congress and monitor and so on, and I'm going to write software under all of it. More senators do. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, as noted earlier, uses these data very extensively. Thiingers.is using these data very much. These data are umsagnir.gogn.in used by the agent. How positive it is that when members of a group of individuals meet or interact with them, there is nothing that can stop them from thinking! If I am, for example. doing something with the data, but what? paritaprevir Leví second - let's say we're both civilians; we're discussing how we use these data - I can suggest something, and he just goes and does. This means that you don't have to create a project, you don't have to create a partnership. We don't have to wonder if I can share data with the others or not. When freedom is granted, when the data can go through everything without cost, without special permission, and without terms of terms having to accept, the data will be of far greater consequence, most overwhelmingly. Even extremely low barriers, though not allowing people to use the evidence, become very important in preventing this culture. This is in itself a little effort to overcome, a small amount, or to push any button to use the data or to sign any terms of something like that; none of this is a big case for each and every one, but it is important to create what we call in the business a ◯hacking complex; or hackers, where people are encouraged to experiment, encourage to try and see what they can do with the data. Good if there's no definition somewhere where data are spoken of as being new in a way that is not connected to the original purpose of publishing them - that is no less than the definition of the saddle, as I understand it, to use widgets and tools and tools to do anything but the original plan. What we sometimes call hackers is such an intriguing culture. She's the kid who opens the video device -- I'm so old, I'm still saying a video set -- or open up whatever it is used to be today, experimenting with it, and testing something new and breaking something sometimes, that's just the way it is, and maybe learning something about fixing it. It's exactly the same with data. You want to be able to fuck with them, you want others to fuck with them. Then these barriers, as minor as they seem at first, are extremely large to prevent the hackers I mention here. Other than that, I have no comments to this bill. I suppose, after only looking at the information laws as they are, there's nothing here that narrows the right user. I just want to, in the light of history, here at the Council to pray. The management and monitoring committee should be alert to this, as it is relatively easy, apparently, to make mistakes in the shape of this town, especially when we are moving something or putting new total laws, applies to many articles at once. I think it's very important that we be on our guard. I'm kind of looking forward to the 2nd. the subject of this matter, when it is presented in the committee's opinion. I encourage those interested in open administration, and using public data to send in reviews, especially to highlight how they are used, of course, I am talking about the fine people who are already using public data. Other than that, I look forward to seeing the next step in this series and especially what comes out of the work at the highest level. I was told earlier by the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator named Goggn. There's another underside there, because I'm a few amateurs of quick curiosity, especially when it comes to information - because the senator named Gogga. That's another underside there, with those fine amateurs of information, called smiling. googn. The one where they threw all the portraits of the senators from the start of the road, hit them all, so when the mouse crosses them, they all go to smile. This is a exercise that may not have much economic significance, but it is a good example of what follows and curiosity can lead you out on fun tracks and aquifers what I think is an illuminator for what the senator was talking about, that it should be possible to do such a flash page without being stuck behind some threshold or burdensome use of terms. The men who made the smiling pages also produced a portal of debates about Congress, which is a very useful tool for the democracies of the common people. That's why I'd like to ask the senator, because he crossed the thresholds well, the thresholds often on this bill were largely blocked, whether he sees that we can't smooth them out in a simple way, and thus continue to keep the law's purpose even better without compromising something with the European model under which is being introduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u43	A respectable president. I think it is a good thing that somehow we could go too far for Europe's regulations in transparency in these materials, especially because much of this is actually technical, i.e. the data presented. V.E.G. The prime minister mentioned just before that it takes a certain investment, requiring a certain amount of money to produce data in a way that is otherwise available in its original form. Often, it is because of barriers, if not just most of the time. It is certainly a threshold when it arrives, for example. Congress. I suggested in my own time, and I got an approved conquistador proposal to publish documents on what I'm going to call a mechanical format, that's a complex level and the cost of doing it. On the other hand, I also believe that they weave as little as possible. A senator mentions, such as. the envelopes, and indeed the smiling.gin. which I didn't hear about until now and actually smiled about looking up, the management doesn't necessarily have to figure out how the data should be used, it doesn't necessarily have to be for some purpose or for a terrible noble purpose. It also has to be just for fun, just to have fun. So I suggest that if someone likes to hack in public records, it's just great, let alone programing them. I think a lot of these obstacles, such as reimbursement or such, are really there because a certain attitude is going on, no mean or anything like that, just that there's a fixed ◯tendens- or a tendency, that as soon as there's an opportunity for something to become free, we need to have some rules, just some rules. Sometimes the answer is no. [[The president calls.]] Sometimes there may be no rules. Sometimes freedom simply works best. I think there's a lot of that in information, of course not absolute, but people might think about it a little bit more, I think. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u44	A respectable president. Because the senator mentioned his own proposal for the mechanical format of Congress, it is just an example of how progress in these matters can provide better practice, since I think that many of the mistakes we have been making in the legal process could not have been made if technical development at the time of the bill or the recovery level of the International Parliament had been more difficult. This is something we will soon take a big step in. In terms of the right to pay for it, the senator wondered if it was somehow this way, but I'm allowed to approach those who hold on to the data. I think it's part of it. There is a rich tendency for those who have data, even though there are public members, to be unwilling to give it up, let alone the depth of the boundless open access to them; he is just throwing away these loves that he has been gathering for years into the hard world and has nothing to say about who is taking them and doing something on their foundation. I think it's part of it. I think part of it is just some photocopying effect. The founding of a century is that when a request for data is received and information, it only translates Fiery Printing and photocopying on data that can be calculated at direct cost. Getting all the xml tables of the council as they stand today on paper would cost tens of thousands of dollars, but building them down on a fraction of a second electronically does not involve cost to anyone because these are data that exist anyway. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u45	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator was right about this. I'll just say as a programmer who has written quite a lot of programs, small and large over the years, that I know very well the feeling that I've made something, gathered something, or done something that I think is really cool but that I'm afraid to give it out completely free. It's some feeling I don't know exactly where it comes from, because now I'm a strategist of open software and open standards and stuff, I still have that feeling. But I think it's a bit like prejudice and other human failures. I think we're all having feelings like that that we don't necessarily get rid of, but we can figure them out and feel them in some other way, for example. To consider the matter and to ask himself, " Why not give it entirely free, what is it I'm afraid of? ' Often the answer is nothing, just not a few things created. Unless, of course, we're familiar with doing things first, regardless of what any man was doing and then giving it out and then worrying about criticism, if you didn't do it first. Most programmers probably know it. Like I say, it's just something you have to do back in person. I think that in order for institutions to do this, the legal environment needs to be in such a way that this would encourage the view that some work is not being requested on the basis of evidence. It's best that it's just a web page, the user gets data, no permission, no work, no time, no money, nothing, just open data. As for the mentality of institutions, I think there's a lot to improve. As I'm saying, the Allied data, e.g. They're very good, they're not as thorough as I'd like them to be. There's nothing to blame for, it's just a technical solution. But I think it's getting better. I think the bill is a sign that it's all getting better, even in the large Europe. [[The president calls.]] So I am optimistic about the future in this regard. This happens more slowly than you would like, as do many other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u46	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, I just want to thank you for the good stuff that each has. Parliamentaries who have participated in the discussion. I expect these matters, and the questions that have been tore up here, to be considered on the subject. Board of Directors and Control Committee. Section 5. has been made up of a specific subject here for some reason. Congress officials and I feel that there is no reason to blame an institution to set any specific requirements. As a result, this will not put anything into place but will further encourage these laws in this special code of law. So there is no way to interpret the bill in a way that organizations that have already published their information and allowed it to be recycled. Geography was designed to form a committee here. The general conditions are very general, as indicated in Article 4. To tell you the truth, I don't know an example that set no special requirements for reused data. This warrant is included if such conditions were made for any reason. If they were to be unemployable - now we have, as I say, no examples of this - it could be reported to the Commission on information issues. It is important to keep in mind that this is only a warrant, not a duty at all. Since then, only exchanges have been discussed. It is important to keep in mind that the bill is about using, not access, it is not at all talking about access to data, it does not affect the price paid for it. However, as far as it will be achieved, only when the official person has seen a reason for reimbursement, which then depends on some possible cost of the institution. Government policy, however, is that open data are free and reused whenever possible. That's the general policy. I thought it was important to correct the fact that the principle is that way. I felt that this was the most important point in a case. Councilmen, therefore, mention them. I hope the bill gets a good and thorough coverage in the management and monitoring committee and it'll be done here. I think it's a step forward. We're building an environment for greater use of official data. This was only a discussion of open data and how we could make it more active, which was shown in the matter at the time. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. There's a working group at work, I'd like to present it. It has not yet provided suggestions for allowing that region to become the more active portal, allowing the access to be better and more data to be found. Hopefully, we will see some conclusion in the near future. Other than that, I'm not going to have that other word. Thank you. Councilmen for a good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u47	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synopsis proposal for replacement from country to country. It reads: The General concluded to hide transport and local Ministers to order groups of workers in agreement with the European Union on the switch between rural populations, allowing them to reflect the best cost of rural society for services. The service group will watch, including the case in which a person owns a vacation home or farm or works in a community other than he or she has a legal home. Prior to the end of 2018, the minister gives the proposal to the General Assembly. This proposal was previously moved to a Council of 146th and 147th, but it did not succeed. Here today, it is remanded with a slight change in the comments that came from a living institution. According to the 1st issue, 2 mg. 20. Relations on rural income, No. 4/1995, pay men who carry an unlimited tax service here to the local community where they have a legal home. If a person has a legal home in more than one community in the income year, he or she should be put on an even greater proportion than one company home in the income year, according to the 2nd paragraph. However, rural society may have substantial costs for services to others other than those with a legal home, e.g. Some who have a vacation home or land and spend even a large part of the year without living there. For example, there is the cost of snowstorm. So here it is suggested that a team of workers be assigned to develop proposals in consultation with the European Union for the switch between two or more rural groups to reflect the best care of the local community for services rendered. It's happened, and maybe it's the most recent turn of the century, we know what happened then during the uplift that was, that very many people bought land and soils were divided into small farms, small farms that men have since used in increasing numbers to stay, even part - time jobs, at that place and in the community where they live and have legal households. However, many of these parties are interested in sharing in the community where they have purchased property and have contributed, perhaps spending six months or more, or much of the year at that location. Therefore, it is not unusual for them to be able to exchange incomes among fellow members of the country if that is what they are interested in. In many lands around us, people have been concerned about this trend. I'm sure they're worried here too. Of course, we need a good agricultural land for food production. As a result, rural society has increasingly adopted clear rules. In a national organization adopted during the last terms, it was also set out in support of rural society, having clear policy on how to ensure in an organization that good soils for food production will continue to be used for it. But there are also other areas where none of them are, and it helps to continue building for those who want to come and stay in the community. Therefore, this proposal can help to create income for a rural society. Men who are willing to change their nest have the chance to do so. I'd also like to refer to the discussion that was earlier today regarding ownership policy on state farms. This can all be together. But maybe we're making a decision here, looking more closely at the individuals who, in part, stay in one rural group with a legal home but are so much of the year in another rural society. What has happened, and this is a real challenge for many smaller societies that are faced with large amounts of land sold to individuals who do not live there, it is that rural society is getting virtually no income from them because from the sale it pays a capital tax. Often, they buy these earths for their own benefit. Also, there are no incomes for the countryside. They're going to the government. Many of those owners, as I said earlier, have heard their conversations and conversations with some of them, are interested in being participants in more than one way in their communities where they are and are making contributions to build up the wood and to be more participants. I hope the proposal has begun. She's standing, plus me standing here, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Karl Gauti Hjaltason. After a discussion, I hope that the matter will be established and suggested that it be referred to a environmental and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A foreman for the speech. We've been talking a lot about an outback and its exchange over the years. There are many reasons. This is linked to a group call for increased and improved revenues. We living in the scattered settlements hear the cry of anti-surgents from rural communities who are even recruiting summer refugees in large tourist areas. I take as an example a Mysterious Force, where the number of high-resurrection people who come there to work for tourists; people who have a home elsewhere but who serve in the local community while working there. In fact, rural communities have had to set up facilities in order to be simply another demand and to do the traveling work there. It's shocking in such a situation, when much of it is workforce that doesn't leave any income. That's why I've been in favor of checking to see if the answer can be changed. I'm sure that can be reversed. What's the aim? Decided number of weeks of work? It is likely, then, that it is within the bounds. Who is the percentage supposed to be? I don't think this can be reversed, but I think it's something we're supposed to try to work with. There is no better way to meet them when people are even living six months in a designated place, whether in a sanatorium or at work for a month somewhere and then perhaps in a permanent home elsewhere, which they consider to be a legal home. We were just doing a legal bill from a minister, which includes... to any of these matters, i.e. where to register. But it's turned. I don't see that we can go through some other way through the tax system that directly connects with the local communities in this regard. I didn't mean to keep this far, but I think it's getting a lot more. You know, it's time to try to think of this in a way that's not connected with where your home is, just like it's been. We have people who live in two parts of the world, couples who have even had to move the legal home so that one person could work. Then the family may face difficulties in the local population because of the service it is to perform. All of this hangs together. The songs may come about by hanging out a little. I hope the case is well discussed with the Committee. There's been a lot of calls for this. I believe that every member of the country who has traveled through its districts received a tip. The relationship has also been discussing these issues, even though it is reversed how to enforce them. I hope the case is well discussed with the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u49	A respectable president. I'm a co-sponsor at this proposal for Congress, and I know a lot of examples of people having a legal home in the city, but I'm pretty much in their summer house. It is, I believe, the basis of this matter. Men live more and less in their summer houses, which have become completely different from what used to be. These have become very well - built houses, unlike those decades ago, when they were half - made huts and hardly kept water or wind. This has changed completely, as we know. There is also one reason to mention when discussing this matter: Our house service has become like the finest house in the city, like people living here, even better. People also spend much time in these homes, much more than before, by means of equipment, and even from these farms, they even go to work. The road system's gotten better. Those who live in their own settlements in the Grinnes, or closer to the capital area, many of whom I know, work more or less out of their homes. It doesn't have to be that it's short and therapeutic. That's the main reason. It is not a problem to calculate this if a formula is found in the committee, considering that today people are moving between legal agencies. Their taxes are replaced by a simple operation in the local community. This needs to be resolved, some way out, to help rurals who are serving these people, who are paying only real estate fees to the local community. Of course, it is very unfair that these rural communities, which may be very small, with vast numbers of summer houses, will not receive any share of these people's income taxes. It's a justice case in my opinion. That's why I put my name on this excellent proposal for the council decision from whence. paritaprevir The mother of Þórunn's Egilsdóttir. I hope the case is well discussed by the Committee and progressive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u50	A respectable president. I recommend a synonym to smell the production of a digital printing program. A big, big name, and maybe not a benefit, but I'm going to explain just what this is and even let me read the paper with the suggestion, even though I'm not even doing it when I'm saying things. It's pretty big, and it's a pretty good explanation. First, I'd like to say that with me as a messenger, Þorgerður Njáll Friðbertsson, Þóra Enra Árnadóttir, Líneik Gunnarsson Þórhildur, Guðmundur Gunnarsdóttir Gónsdótir, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Þorsteinn Fóldur Sæmundsson Haraldsdotir, Billdor Valmimsson, Þólur Andri Thorsson Sólæðmundsson, Mólfjörnjörnjörnjörður Sunnarsson. A few long names, and clear audiences have meant that these are a total of 15 members of all categories, so I rejoice at how much and how supportive they are. 15 Councilmen, we are 63 at the council, of whom there are ten ministers, of whom none of them are in the least of their own matters. The general president of the Council is now rarely involved, so 15 members of the 52 remaining representatives of this proposal, which I expect to be less than 30%. I have good hopes for the matter to be realized. The proposal for interpretation reads, with president's permission: ▪ The General concluded to hide an education and cultural minister ordering a team of workers who make a cost-and-time plan for the digital printing system that will be available to read online equipment and will review negotiations with author-secures for such digital remakes. The staff will account for the costs and possibilities to complete the digital print generation over a) 5 years, b) 10 years and c) 15 years. The staff complete their work in time so that a minister may be able to report the case to the General and introduce his findings to December 1, 2018. Some might now feel that this work was not given for a very long time. These are just a few months before we could get a report on December 1, 2018, but I have the hope that even if we don't have to use all that time, a considerable amount of work that the staff would need to do would come to the case where it hadn't been meant, it has already happened. From 2013 to 2014, the matter has been considered, using various forms of committees and groups of work. So there is a lot of opinions and evidence on these matters that I trust, if this council proposal is accepted, that the staff of the staff will make a lot of use of their jobs, so we don't have to start over, and actually I'm suggesting that it won't be done, because we all want to be able to work in the most practical way. The objective of this synonym is to contribute to the development of a thorough work programme for the spelling of Icelandic printing, particularly books, that have reached their age that they are no longer market sales and that explain how the lettered literature would be made available to the common people. By spelling, digital technology would enhance the public access to writing in English and short - lived goals to promote the state of the Icelandic language in a digital world. Digital reforms are an important part of the spelling process, which is now taking place at a high rate in many areas of society. The digital revolution is causing drastic changes in the preservation and exchange of all cultures, so much so that its impact can be balanced with the development of printing technology as the printing of books in Europe in the media. The importance of digital technology is widely recognized, and governments in many places place emphasis on using it and doing what they can to make digital technology possible. Thus, the European Commission has a European Commission policy on digital internal markets, Digital Soglemarket: Bringing down the barries to unlock online opportunities, intended to provide a number of kinds of online activities in the EU Member States, including the cultural field, but in this respect the Commission has offered specific recommendations on how to transfer information on the state of state-of-the-netstance and access it can be applied. The European collection site, Europeana Collections, which is partly funded by the European Union, provides an example of how the digital exchange of European culture is achieved. Icelandic cultural institutions are involved in the Europeana Collections and have gained experience and knowledge of digital recycling, registration, preservation and the digital cultural environment throughout this cooperation. Beg pardon that the voice is something to give itself. I seem to be at lower rates now than I am used to, so maybe she's rusting something. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I'm going on. In the North, a policy has been established on the digital recycling of the cultural system that is operating in the hands of museums and other cultural institutions. There is no room for any claim that the Norwegians have achieved the most results in the digital recycling of printed books in Northern countries. In 2009 this year in the National Library of America's research projects, Nazijongalbiboliket, began with a digital remake of printed books in the Norwegian language called Bokhylla.no or bookshell. The project developed quickly from an experimental stage and has led to the completion of digital recycling of all books published in Norway by the end of the year 2000, including some 4,000 publications apart from those chosen by the court to carry out the project and to only about 1.5% of all the literature options. By the time this year's rebuilding project was completed, some 270,000 publications had been digital and had become available to Internet users with a reader number of Norwegian IP. One of the main preeminents that it was possible to produce the Norwegian national bookcase as far as it is seen was that a broad agreement with the Author's Office, Kopinor, was able to publish the literature digitally on the Norse Library web and has chosen to allow such publication. In 2013 in the U.S. government culture approved by the United States, digital culture is held in particular and aims are set out to make the nation's culture accessible in as many areas as possible digitally. The 2013 Commission's proposal for a publication that was at work shows that digital remakes of printed material and nonprofit remuneration are highly proposed to the bookmakers and authors by the report that the U.S.A. will be free of charge to the non-market printing of Icelanders through the website. This will be made possible by a special agreement with the Author's union in the same way that has been done in Norway. There has been some progress on the digital recycling of cultural material here in the country, including printing, and is the product of the work in the regions of Iceland's National Library of University, Peek.is and magazine. A recent assessment of the maintenance of cultural heritage in the digital form of museums and cultural institutions in this country revealed that about 70% of the books published by 1850 have already become digital, but none of the 85,000 books that have been published since that date have been written. - I have new numbers from the National Library where, in fact, almost all books are published by 1844, or a large part of them. These are books from 1534 to 1844. I guess this is more than 70%, so we can already look at these books. - On the part of those who have worked on digital recycling of books, it is believed that letters are about 41,500 or about half of the published books. Already about 60% of newspapers have been redesigned digitally, and magazine proportions are about the same. The available data suggest that in the case of printing, most of the data is now being started with the digital recycling of books, which are almost all remaining. Of course, it pays for a project to make use of experience, knowledge, and technology that have already proved to be comparable in this country or abroad. However, it is clear that letters at least 42,500 publications are a major subject that requires both financial and human resources. The benefits of preservation, however, are unequivocal and must be an important factor in maintaining Icelandic culture by paying publications that store the way into the digital world. A respectable president. I have now finished reading the proposal and the report. I thought about it when I listened to a discussion earlier about public evidence, and we, as well as in this room, had discussed that opening the evidence would be able to find use for those whom men might not foresee. I think that's exactly what happened, e.g. magazines. I myself am an educated historian. When I was in school, it was only with historians and perhaps with older scholars who were sitting and writing in old newspapers. And maybe why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson. Most of all, it was a crime story that someone sat half a day and looked at films in the old National Archives. Today it's open. Who hasn't been looking for something and dropped into a nice old magazine article on magazine.is? The use of such a web makes me unable to say countless things. We can't all see them coming. For one thing, it is that our printer's figure is the maintenance and distribution value of Icelandic culture. If this were to become a reality, the books that have been published in Icelandic would be available. It would simply be possible to look at them online. As shown in the report, and it is that the Norwegian role model, the authors can firmly decide that their books will not be included in this foundation. It is in their own power to take them out, and you can visualize books that are still for sale, and people who have the right to believe that they might view such a publication as a deduction that might deduct something, then take the book or books out of it simply. Nevertheless, as the Norwegian experience shows, it is likely that only a small fraction would be involved. In Norway these are just 1.5% of all the literature systems chosen by writers to be absent. A respectable president. I could talk much longer, but I'm not going to do it, less, though. Councilmen say that we have talked a lot about the preservation of Icelandic, Icelandic, American culture, access to our inheritance, which we keep in our own written language. Such sites would equal access regardless of where people live in the country, whether they are close to the homes, libraries, and institutions that house them books and literature, and would be a good work in spreading the Icelandic printer. As the report shows, early ideas on this project are actually presented in a report prepared by the Ministry of Education in 2013 and 2014, so within the official system and by those involved, this idea has long been floundered, so it is not new to surprise anyone. And for those who find it hard to see the transparency in this, to make a digital print-making program, I'll return to the Web magazine that we know most of the time. It would be in the foundation of such a web, except for books.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u51	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér for his excellent story. It won't take long to get into practice, that's clear. It's a good idea when it's up to the spring. I am one of those who are convinced that what makes us Icelanders that a nation is the cultural stock we have in the books, in our stories, and in our nature. I think it's our duty to protect that inheritance. I'm confident that if we lose him, the first step is to lose our sovereignty and independence; that's exactly what we're going to celebrate the 100th anniversary of a sovereignty later this year. On the other hand, I think of the approach or ideologies that are behind this synonym. I need to pray. A senator and 1st transporter to help me understand only the ideologies behind my back. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The aim of this synonym is to help achieve a thorough plan for the spelling of Icelandic printing, especially books, which have reached their age that the market is no longer marketed... That's what I cut right after I started reading. Wait a minute. What's not a sale? Who decides what constitutes products and what is not? I'm convinced it's at least not officials who do. [[The president calls.]] I remind you that today our ancient stories, the Icelandic stories, are goods. Then I've got more to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u52	A respectable president. Now I'm getting fat, now I can explain why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, how the market works. What's not a sale? asks why. Senator. That's a normal question. In fact, it is always a sales product that someone is interested in buying. I'm not going to go to the auction and demand theories, I think that's why. A senator would quickly throw me at a hole in them. However, this is simply a reference to the fact that the latest books are not necessarily being found on the books listed today. I refer here, as much is done in this synopsis proposal, to the Norwegian experience. It simply focused on the year 2000, thinking that books were no longer commercially available in the sense that they fill the shelves of the bookstores. I don't know. However, a senator assumes that in the end it is the owner of the Constitution who decides whether his book is a sale or not. If the owner of a author, author, or whoever owns the author's place at each time, feels that his book is still marketd, he or she has the right to take a book from this foundation. Thus, for the year 2000, only 1.5% of the Norwegian owners of authors have felt that their books were still goods at public markets in the sense laid in this bill, and are the basis for the work referred to in the Norwegian National Bookshelf. We live so well that it is relatively new to do this work there, so we can collect from their databases of experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u53	Madam President. Thank you so much for those answers. Of course, we can talk for a long time about supply and demand and laws that apply to it. But there is something else that bothers me because I agree with people's goals. I think it's important that we do this, as I emphasized earlier because it's our duty. It seems to me that the beginning point of this motion, my ass. 1 strategist to correct me if I'm wrong, is that this is the part of the state, that the state should contribute to this and work on it. My question is, Have the carriers wondered how it might be wise to clear the path of private, individual, and corporate people in order to preserve their culture, including in digital form as suggested here? I'm one of the most effective magazine ever to be used. Not a day goes by that I don't go in there to review the story and stay in good practice. I use the magic machine Kindle, I'm told that the version of digital books doesn't have a very bright future there, but then a completely new world opened to me, access to millions of books regardless of borders. It doesn't change that I keep going to a bookstore, it's the best thing to be. I want a brief explanation from a vehicle: Is it correct, the feeling that shipping agents will assume that the State is on this project, finance the project, and that they have not considered in what way it is reasonable for private people to arrive at the project? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u54	A respectable president. Hv. A senator knows that there is nothing I do differently than to consider whether a private person can do it. The idea that the government will somehow come to preserve books and their contents is not new, it is not something that is being proposed for the first time in the history of this bill. Me and what. A senator shares interest and admiration in bookstores. I'm asking why. A senator whether he doesn't share my admiration in museums too. This is where the printer's handle is maintained today. There private people have not yet arrived. There may be times when, somewhere in a series of investors are waiting to put money on it and think they can make money on it; it's just fine, the working group can check it out. But, hey. A senator talks about magazine. It contains the country's newspapers. It contains, for example, To find the Morning newspaper I know about. A senator reads with the same joy that I do each day. [[Up front.]] Timagraph.is a public page. Also, the morning paper did not issue magazine.is; the owners of the morning paper did not think that they needed to get it up. Rather, they did so through the public website of magazine. To whom should we trust the market, where should we not be, if not the Morning Press? Senator? I'd like to come into something else right at the end of the summer, which is just about to take care of the cultural preservation. I'm going to remind you that books published in Iceland are 53,425. Part of them is in libraries. They may even be exposed to damage. [[The president calls.]] It is also about the preservation value of the books' contents and spelling them before the books fall apart in great use.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u55	Madam President. Thank you. For the initiative, a driver, Kolbor, Óttarsson Proppér, was taken by Jehovah's Witnesses. It's a pretty good band, though I myself tell of what he's having, and the project is presented very clearly, to explore the potential for dealing with the authors' unions on the use of digital rediscovering of their writings. I've had some discussions with professionals about documenting and what kind of preservation this is. I understand that on the international scale it was agreed that the type of document that will be stored by all species is what we call PDF, so it's fine that it should come out here if that is true in this case, which I think. Away from the technology, I find this interpretation proposal very important and needed, and I find it necessary and important for the Icelandic, because it is infinitely valuable in preserving language, or developing a language if we want to use it, that is, the subject of writing itself, not just the spoken language, but the written language. Then it is culture, because we can be sure that Icelanders have produced much interesting literature, written much interesting literature, so this is a source of culture. Then there is history, history, and the history of Iceland, because it is always written in part in literature, all kinds of literature. The report describes the accomplishments of the Norwegians in this regard. It's an example, I'm not going to trace it here, but it's going to impress us. The 220,000 available publications there are really so that we can look to that experience. This also discusses certain suspicions that have been observed both -- it seems to be endemic here, there may be housing in the house, or we left greens out of practice, who knows. [[Senator's out of his mind.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Except, there has been some suspicion in Icelandic writers and publishers. There's only mention here, and I know it quite well, being a writer myself. It is part of an audio book version in Iceland. There have been faults on it and critical aspects that I'm not going to go on, but that may be one reason for some of the suspicion. Even when you're looking for music. We are familiar with the debate about writers and payments and other things for music; I'm not going to go into it either. I have a feeling that Icelandic writers may not be interested in it, as the report shows. Printf is spoken. An inheritance to me suggests that the writers have probably all died, but of course they are not. It is very important that the modern authors have both the possibility of opening a portal into this digital world without the credit of their readers on their own request, or at least Think about it as if it's not right. I hope that as many people really do. It was noted earlier that authors' assessments and publishers of which, of course, have stopped selling a book so much that there is a reason to take it off the market or put it in there if you want to use this target, i.e. when a book should be digitally reassigned and when it should not be. I know very well that you can buy books by yourself, which may be ten years old, in total ridicule, 500 c., 1,000 c., in a book market somewhere or so, so that, in fact, books are such as this for a relatively short period of time, except for some special copy, such as Iceland or something else mentioned here. I probably have 50 editions, 50 publications that have been published after me. I can honestly state that I would like to place some of them on the site, as we say. It's my private opinion, of course. I'm not speaking for other writers. It is estimated that 50% of books published after 1850 are written, over 40,000. I am quite convinced that the private people will not show that much interest. The reason is very simple, a profit of such a version is really no one, and I find it very difficult to see a private person reach out for work on it or to run some tissue or such without any remuneration, except for advertising or anything else. I don't know about that. I think it's a personal project that's hopeless or hopeless. I named Icelandic earlier in this brief chat and I want to view this project, if it becomes a reality that I hope to be, in fact, an important part of the battle for Icelandic life. You can then look to our experiences, which have grown up well, from the development of a vocabulary of young people in Iceland. I believe that one of the greatest dangers to be faced by the Icelandic language comes from a shrinking vocabulary of young people in Iceland. I'm not talking about children necessarily, I'm talking about people who have come between income and 20 years of age or over those things, which, many of which, may have one report. I have sometimes said, even here on the platform, when advertised in the media media, and the advertisement was like this: 'The arts make music, and musicians do art.' This is exactly what is very dangerous in English. I'm going to finish my case by celebrating the council resolution again and making sure it goes to bed. General and Education Committee, I presume.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u56	A respectable president. I'm not going to have many words about this excellent suggestion as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé was such a loving man to ask me and others to be my partners on which I am now. The Icelandic is in grave danger. It seems rather undisputed, and there is much to it because of technological progress, but also because the English has taken over as a more useful language than the Icelandic language, obviously with people who do not speak Icelandic, but when more or less all Icelanders, especially in the younger area, speak fluent English, and a lot of people are not really worse than their mother tongue, Icelandic is at risk. Because English is simply a very useful subject, there is nothing we can do about it in my opinion. We don't want to have less English, we just want to make sure that Iceland survives and continues the language we speak here. That is why there are some reasons beyond those romantic ideas, which could be said to be on their own. One thing is that we need to understand our story. We must be able to understand our culture as it is today. I particularly enjoyed the privilege of living in Manitoba, Canada, for a moment in his day, and I met people who were of the so - called nations, as it is called in English, thinking that, in English, you still call it an Indian. There are tribes like Cree, Oji-Cree, and Oji-Cree. It's people who have been completely overwhelmed over the years. I'm not going into that story. What remains is that these people often do not know their history, they do not separate their grandparents from their letters, they have lost a tremendous deal with their origins because the language that is so terrible has been taken away. There is some effort to hold onto it and to restore it, but it works very slowly because the damage is so great and it is already done. Similarly, this development, this change in the language, took place - a very interesting language while I remember - before the Internet information revolution became available. We're lucky, first of all, that the rush in our language is not due to direct violence, as was then, in North America, but because of peaceful cultural influences. Second, it starts so late that we can keep it in Icelandic for registration, so it can be held longer. It would not be easy to get it over with a cat's nose, nor would it be easy to get back to the level of English or other matters over time. It turns out that Norwegian is back in fashion because of a certain TV program, which is such a delight. In my opinion, this proposal is extremely important to help achieve this goal. The point of the proposal is made only on how this is being done in Norway, with very good results, there will be no doubt about it. However, I would like to mention one thought - provoking point for those members who come to work in this group and especially for those of the rights to come up with negotiations, if this proposal reaches through, hopefully, with the authorities or with groups of work, or whatever it will be, when the project is established. I'm going to start by saying one thing, because there's at least one writer in the hall, that I really don't know anything about writers, I can program, I know how to write music, I know how to write lyrics. My mother's a filmmaker, my father's a soundman. I am brought up in what is called the'snow biz', so I understand the concern of rights and concerns as authors, writers, musicians, and all these teams, programmers, the distribution of their materials without charge and without charge. In the Norway arrangement, as good as it is for them to reach the class goal, there are two things I would like to do to warn them that this is an adjustment that does not belong to the proposal itself. On the other hand, the Norwegian export is restricted to Norwegian IP numbers, i.e. to a device with a Norwegian IP number - IP number is just a device identification number on the Internet; all the devices on the Internet need to have some sort of social security number, it's kind of impossible to explain this properly in short terms. I'm warning you. First of all, an Icelandic language is actually spoken in Iceland, so I don't think that there's much interest in accessing such material outside Iceland except, of course, of course, from abroad. Then you have to ask yourself: " Why limit it? By the way, I'm not putting myself at all opposed to limiting things from IP numbers. I do it myself for every day's safety. But I think it's unnecessary. This is not such an illusion that it may actually ruin how it works and not reduce people's freedoms online, at least not in a straight way, but I think people need to wonder why they want their limitations, what they're trying to achieve. I don't think, by limiting these tasks to the Icelandic IP number, they're defending the interests of justice, I don't think. As I say, this is more for consideration to those who come to discuss the implementation of this subject at the time. The other one used in Norway, from what I understand, is a technique that is abbreviated DRM, or English, with the permission of a president: There is a technology that tries to publish information so that it can only be used with specific software or on specific devices. This technology is of little concern. I can tell you exactly that I'm just against her. I don't want it to be used. I don't want equipment to be made so they'll assume it, but unfortunately, there's a lot of equipment like that. You see, there's one thing that's so nice about information: It's possible to do things with information that wasn't necessarily the original goal. You can look at how you make your home page. Here I have the General Homepage. I can see how it's made. I can create a new page that looks similar but not exactly like it or I can learn something from it. This is how I learned how to make websites. This is how I learned to program by examining code from others, by examining what is involved in the actions of others. That's good. That's the way it's supposed to be. DRM technology and similar technology, therefore, dissociates a bit with the material. Of course it's a counterweight goal. I'll give you one example that may not be particularly serious, as follows: If you buy music or some educational material, it's about the same in silence and put it on your phone, and this DRM technology is used, that means that it can only be on this phone. Except, I'm going to go swimming, so I'm going to buy myself a headphone that I can use in swimming. That's where the material needs to go. Then I just can't use it even if I paid for it. Although I have permission to use the material, I cannot do so because technology is designed to prevent me from doing so. This is a small example of how these techniques can be used simply to control matter over time. Like computers in general, you don't fight much with this technology, they're right, and that's just the fucking math. I wonder, especially when it's time to do this, if this technology is needed. Again: This is more thought - provoking to those who come to design the process. See here we are referring to such an amazing phenomenon as the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. For many reasons, the English language is an important matter. But one of the things I'd think was extremely important to protect her is that we can mess with her and make a diagnostic device for her. If DRM technology is used only to read something on the screen and put it on another disk, but can't be done with it, it violates that goal and would violate the idea of preserving Icelandic language, even if it could somehow serve the interests of the courts, many would say so. I wanted to warn you about this technology. As I say, this does not belong to the suggestion itself but falls into the lap of an exporter, who I hope will consider very well and do this work in the light of the goal of protecting the Icelandic language. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u57	V.E.G. President. I'd like to speak briefly to celebrate this proposal. Fortunately, I was invited to join the group to move her. I am grateful for that. That is, what makes us the language of a nation. We've taken care of the old inheritance we have very well, i.e. manuscript time, etc, and have provided them with an inheritance. However, the language of each age is of natural importance, and the years after 1850 and until now are an essential part of our lives here in the country. I think it is necessary, both to preserve the matter and the language that occurred at that time, to keep books to people by providing access. And right at that time, there are many wonderful works that we have and those of a great poet who lived at the time, and many of these books are certainly not available at that time. I think it's very worthy of this kind of work. I also have to admit, although there may not be an introduction to it, I was happy to see that the committee is expected to be returned by December 1, 2018. I find it most appropriate to remember this, although this does not belong to the birthday celebration, that is, because it has been the will of the committee that won this and the results are coming in sort of every day. This gave rise to those claiming that this birthday celebration would be a public property and would last all year. Therefore, I think it is most appropriate that the items discussed here become public property in the same way, i.e. ritonavir. Also, we have to use every opportunity we have and save nothing to prevent Iceland from dying out as many people worry about, especially because it could be in a digital world. The more important it is that we do all we can to preserve and make the best of what we have and make it accessible to people now and to future generations. Therefore, again I remember that I am very happy about this matter, and I am very happy that I have been allowed to participate in the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u58	Madam President. I want to come on the side that I think may not be the least of all in this matter, it's a very good case, and absolutely important that it penetrates, i.e. that we are involved in defending knowledge, not just Icelandic. We're maintaining knowledge. The maintenance of knowledge is a factor that is of utmost importance to communities. How priceless it is to maintain the knowledge that has been collected throughout the ages! I'll think of the words of Eben Moglens, professor of law at Columbia University, who once asked where the world was if Einstein never got to learn physics. I can't remember the other example he took, but let's say if Bach hadn't got to learn music or if Laxness had never got to learn Icelandic. How can it be morally justified to rule out at some point a human child from knowledge? It may not be the least of all about the availability of justice. Then there are those who think of the cost side and the poverty in society and not just in our community but in others. More important, it is worth considering the cultural poverty that will result when all the good old writings of the past decades and centuries are forgotten. Few things are as rewarding as wandering through bookshelfs, e.g. In the Kolaport, and finding the old gems inside between books, a job that one would never have imagined would have taken time to write. Similarly, I do not know how many writings I have read, even bought, and put in my library at home after learning the existence of these books through the dragnet, where they have been placed in the wrong form. Sometimes completely legal, where the author's right has been removed, and sometimes some sort of extract on various websites, but also often, and it may be boring to say that, since someone has taken a time to scan it all together. I always try to support writers when I can and buy books. I may buy a lot of books, but I have also written something myself, certainly never a whole book alone, but books with others. That's why I say "wow." paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, there's nothing else I really know but to program and write. I know less about music than the senator, so I'm considerably weaker. So it is much more important to me that our writings themselves are available so that we can take advantage of that knowledge. In this context, it is worth pointing out that we are not the first to think about these thoughts at all. The European Union's so - called information directive, which is often called the European Union's authorship, has a natural history behind the fact that at the time it was adopted, the European Union did not have the authority to establish legislation on the matter of authorship, which has since changed by the recording of the Lisbon Convention. But in that decree, one of 22 reminds me that if it's not for profit from a library, a museum, or some archive or something like it, a copy of the data can be made without the need to pay special for it. This certainly raises questions. I'm not arguing that a deal with the court is being made. I don't know at this moment if this particular exception has been recorded in Icelandic law at the time. That may not be of primary importance. The goal of the proposal is not to make use of it. The existence of this exception shows that the requirement for increasing national cultural value in Europe and around the world is increasing. We know how the Middle Ages come about when knowledge is forgotten because some kind of evil creature is coming upon us. We also know to the same extent how much books are available even in their original writings to rot and be damaged because people have not handled them properly. This experiment was made on the European Union to offer the possibility of guaranteeing a cultural heritage to the future. I believe this proposal actually goes further with that idea and it's really good for them because I view it as not morally justified to exclude any human child from knowledge. Of course we're supposed to keep Icelandic. We are to retain all the knowledge that the Icelandic nation has accumulated over the years. We're supposed to enjoy such a fancy inheritance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u59	Madam President. This question is about a very simple thing on the surface, appointing a group of workers to set up a budget for cost and timing for a particular project, which is to get an Icelandic print language into a digital costume as it is called. So this is a suggestion to respond to the call of time and to make Icelandic printed languages available in the form available to people in our times and to people who want to use it. The aims are described in a paper, to increase the public access to a written language, and to support the aim of promoting the state of the Icelandic language in a digital world. Thank you. 1 strategist for showing me the honor of inviting me to join in this council-sense proposal. Perhaps I would like to add that it is supported by a very serious report written with great knowledge and perspective on the subject. Madam President. English is supposed to be on fire in our time. To protect her from the benefits she faces and not just defends her, you need to hold her back and strengthen her. I want to agree with them. Councilmen here have discussed the privilege of enjoying Icelandic literature in the original languages - we Icelanders living under very special circumstances - and not just ancient literature, but literature sooner and later. Icelandic has a specific position in the world for her to guess a great deal in the grammatical form she has been in since the first time men came to this country. It is very colorful, and there are things that you find hard to envision that you can say in another language. I think of a very difficult translation of Christianity, so I take just a little example, and after looking at translations, very good, in northern, and English, one realizes that in these books, things are said in our languages that are widely translated into other languages. It's a big interest for Icelanders and for the world of Iceland to survive, if I may allow myself to say so. I have allowed me to say here in this sermon that it would be a wish that we now have The Multitudes and Rasmus Kristján Rask. But we just have to do the best we can. Here's a nice contribution in that direction. There's a lot of material in the world web that's been put in a digital costume. It is sufficient to mention, for example, one small example, the magazine magazine magazine.is, but we know that there is much more to be done. When I last looked up at baptism, which is the magazine of the Icelandic literary community, which is the oldest literary magazine in the northern world, I saw that the last product that has made its way into that country has begun since 1940. There is much to be done. I will allow me to hope that in this case, it will be successful in the order of this task force and that it will prosper to present its findings to the Sovereign Lord's Day on December 1, 1918. This may well be one of many factors that contribute to celebrating the great milestones in the history of the people we are doing this year. I can agree with a previous speaker, why. Tenth. s.. For example, in my situation, I am on a committee to celebrate this sovereignty. I also stress that this matter has a good relationship with the intentions involved there. Madam President. It is not impossible to recall the words of the poet: '-Land, nation, and tongue, Trinity true and alone. ' We are here discussing one action of many that are needed to defend, strengthen, and strengthen our tongue. We know that our tongue has remained over the centuries. I allow me to quote here to the grand essay Sigurður by Nordalur on the context in Icelandic literature known here. After all, I would like to express my gratitude to the first circuit overseer for his vigilance and diligent effort in this matter, as shown by the practical preparation laid out. I expect the case to be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u60	A respectable president. Just at the end of the discussion, I want to speak up and thank you for the fine support you have. Councilmen have provided the suggestion, both by being partners but also by their excellent talks during the discussion. I agree with everybody. Councilmen who have spoken up. I think we all agree on the importance of Icelandic printing, that our printer is preserved not only but made accessible. I made it my game while I listened to fine talks and discussions to make good use of the Internet magazine.is, for this has been used as a printer. I wonder when it came into the English language. I thought, went to magazine.is, got the first entry from 1900 and only ten entries, since a certain defect was found there, as newspapers are being scanned and I typed ◯printed, because they did not exist in a tag. What I thought to be printer was found to be a printer, in all cases. Then I tried to type the word digital, because it refers to a digital redesign. And knowingly, it is in 1977 that the word "nit " first appeared in an Icelandic newspaper. This is because magazine.is has been scand largely by newspapers, and in the morning a narrative of a new measuring device, a warm measuring device, the automation unit of the device is a digital calculator, can provide the result of a three - letter number, and the measurement unit was used to measure round, i.e. the number of cars that ran over a particular bridge. This is what we can do and not deep into the discussion, but all of us who are in here know that there are much more changing ways to use. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son just came into his case, saying that we would not see the use of this kind of opening. I only came into it in my story. In Norway, where the text is light-readed, there are men, for example. with regard to texts and novels, the author of very controversial Norwegian literature from second war, where Nazi and sexual activity did not seem to be the norm and no one really knew who had written. There is at least one study that has the right to say who the author is. This was pointed out to me when I shared that suggestion with people on society. I would like to thank you very much for the support I find in this assignment. I think we all agree on the importance of preserving our inheritance, culture, because that's what the print language is, and making it accessible. I agree that the date of December 1, 2018, would be fun to plan. That's why it's set -- I like signs that have written my textbook on national symbols - and it's deliberately chosen, I can illuminate it here. Nevertheless, I hope that we could be far away from the point where we could just be reporting some aspect of the case rather than presenting the report, because the date is on the motion. Hopefully, this can only be done faster and even announced that the project has started at that date. That would be wishful. This is one of the steps I think we need to take when it comes to preserving the Icelandic culture. There are many other assignments. I think we should, for example. in this hall to consider the great cultural value preserved in the National Radio Museum, which I believe in in the same way is necessary for digital translocation. I hope, then, that we can work together on more fine projects and hope that this proposal here will be realized during this birthday year. Finally, I suggest that the synoptic proposal be passed. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u61	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change to the General Assembly Congress Act, which is a matter of the life of Congress. The bill was previously submitted to the 144th legislature and 146th legislature, but it is now reinvented. This bill suggests changes in the activities of the Parliament, the life-time of the Parliament, the judicial handling of the cases and the arrangements for the work of regular committees. 48th. A current law on the General Assembly states that non-final political affairs will collapse at the end of the council. As a result of this rule, the members of the council that are not being supplied in the current legislature need to reimburse matters of the next order to keep the matter alive, hoping to be set up in committees and Assembly Hall and finally taken care of. This arrangement has not been critical, but it may result in an unconcerned or unconcerned case of Congress at the end of the council. The arrangement gives the committees and a great deal of committees the authority to stop them from getting normal treatment and resulting in votes at the Assembly Hall. This must be considered a major fault in the arrangement where the thorough democratic debate of all members of Congress should be handled at all levels. Each matter should be fully and completely treated and discussed in three conference discussions in case of a legal bill and two discussions should be discussed in the case of a Senate resolution proposal. The General Generals assumes that the committee's committee will give its members an article on the matter of Congress referred to and considered by the committees as a basis for a discussion of the relevant matters at the Assembly Hall, and in the end, it is the body of Congress itself that shall be concluded into Congress. However, there has been another and, in fact, a president or a greater part of it has mentioned the possibility of delaying a case on the committee for so long after the council that the matter ends. However, according to 2 mg, this should be maintained. Section 15. Congress may include a quarter of the members of the committee requesting that the committee attend a meeting and attend a judicial hearing. There is no rule, however, in the council that calls on a decision on the matter of Congress, nor can certain members of the committee ask for an opinion on the matter or reprisal. In the North countries, the life - span of Congress is somewhat different. The European Parliament is given from Denmark, where the same rule applies, i.e. At the end of each legislature, when they did not receive their final payment, Congresss fail. In Norway, the general rule is that Congress can survive the terms of the term. Unskilled political launchers can then be recorded during the next election period to be suggested by a prime committee who has previously been considered to be such by the government. In terms of Senate matters and on the committee it is permitted to adopt them at the next assembly within the same terms, unless the members of the Parliament or the members of the Parliament retract their case. In Sweden it has to be settled during the terms of the election when it was submitted. If the regular committees were unable to submit their opinion before the end of the terms, the case is now considered dead. However, the premise is that the Council itself can agree that there will be a matter planned for the first legislature of the next election period. The Finnish Congress has established the rules that if Congress is not available at the current council, its treatment may continue at the next legislature unless there has been an election between them. In terms of government inquiries and declarations, they do not hold the value of the council, but the treatment of Ministers reports can continue at the next assembly if the council finds out. For the treatment of international matters, the rule is that their treatment will continue at the next assembly if necessary, and even if there is an election between councils. The bill involves the introduction to a combination of the strategy in the North countries. In 1st. suggests range 48. The General Assembly members will be changed in terms of not collapse until the end of the election period. This allows for an assembly case that did not receive the final payment of that legislature when it was submitted to the next assembly and then to complete their political treatment. However, a traveling overseer, whether a senator, a Senate committee, or a minister, is put back on trial if that is the case. Such a situation might be considered when circumstances involving Congress have changed and the aims of legislation are no longer practical. It also includes a direct requirement for members of the Parliament to resolve all the issues referred to to to them at the end of each legislature council. The provision is designed to help deal with issues that arise in committees. However, it is decreed that the committee can be dismissed as a matter of Congress on the current legislation, while continued discussions on the matter of Congress may be requested by the next legislature. So it can be seen that members of the Parliament deplore a number of cases in the spring or in September and then discuss matters immediately during the new legislature. This is exactly what the first act of the law opens by not limiting the life span of Congress to each legislature body. If this bill is legal, it is clear that several technical issues, including those related, have to be addressed. The life span of the Parliament, such as due to language numbers and other factors in the conduct of the council, is not considered to be a major problem for tourists. It is estimated that the changes the bill will strengthen the work and democratic activity of the Council. A bill similar to this was submitted to the 138th legislature but was dismissed from the president on the basis of 2 mgr. 43. g. Parliamentary law. When it is determined that the movers will be allowed to proceed with a administrative and surveillance committee and they will be assessed at the NTSB if the bill is considered to be a change in constitution, and the order to be dismissed by the President is to be dismissed. According to the movers, the bill does not include a change in constitution. The constitution distinguishes the terms of the terms of the election and of the legislature. The distinction is made that in the case of a legislature, the General Assembly of Congress, compare with Article 22. where it is stated that the president regularly establishes the General Assembly each year; and 35 st. which says, 'The most difficult Council is to meet each year on the first day of the month of October...' in 44 C.E. The Constitution is referred, not to General ◯, but to the Generals. In contrast, between 52 C.E. and 52 C.E. says: "The Council chooses and directs the president. If the term was to be interpreted, then the term "Salve of the Synod " should be interpreted in 44th. so that there is a legislation, it would also mean that a new president should be chosen at each legislation, as 52 C.E. From the above, it is clear that the Constitution does not stand in the way that the bill allows to change the assembly in the way it commands. This case is given by Congress party Porta, okay? paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, Björn Leví Gunnarsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Avarsdo. I apologize for forgetting to ask the president's permission to testify to the above laws. Now I know that this is a matter of Congress that arouses very mixed emotions in members of the Parliament and in some other people, and there are many good reasons for that. It is often spoken of as improving matters over and over again. At the same time, by not placing the incredible time pressure of one council, the situation may be better accomplished by a smaller time pressure on a committee and may create room for improvement in each case, and it may be less time for a review of matters that have developed many times in the past. Now I don't have a count of it, and I now tried to put together a applet to count it, how many hours we use in a standard assembly, e.g. A Council of 146, to discuss a case that has been presented repeatedly before. For example, yesterday's conference was recommended, which was being proposed for the fourteenth time, and I think that with that, the hours that the Senate has spent in that fine case are quite numerous, at least I would guess 14 but probably 30, 40 or more. When all the weeks of work begin to cover matters over and over again at the beginning of their treatment, and little remains because things don't go down into a committee or get too far to be done, they suspect that we have a chance to make more use of our time in this council. This is a time that would have been more useful to something else. It is hoped that by going this way, we will have the possibility of both a better source and a better contemporaneous treatment. In addition, this would lead to a decision made either way, i.e. that, whether positive or negative, the will of the council be expressed in any way. I know that makes a lot of people feel better because often it's kind of awkward to have to take a stand on a number of issues that are going on. Such a situation may reveal the true and correct attitude of those involved. But I suspect that it can be rather positive for the development of democracy that people's real attitudes appear. Besides, you can always hide behind some sort of lack of attitude. Of course, keeping matters out of the committees, year after year, is much more serious. At least that is not an honest lack of neutrality. This bill will also be held at the Council of Porta today as part of the discussion of improved employment conditions at the council. So far, little has been said on the nominees or suggestions or, in fact, to improve the working conditions of the Council, which have been proclaimed by the government. I'm sorry. But there's plenty of time. It's only been a few weeks since the election, and I have to say that I'm very happy just how much better it has been to work together at the council now than last year. Being here is a whole different life. In that light, it may be a bill that's time to talk seriously. Maybe this isn't the right way. I'm willing to accept that there is another and better way to approach this matter. But then I'd like that to happen because this is a obvious problem. Clearly, we are wasting our time by being always, doing the same things at times, doing the same things over. It's kind of ironic that this case is being recommended for the third time. Of course, we should be able to do better than that. We shouldn't have to waste each other's time. In order to practice what I preach, I will not keep this much further until now. But I would like the bill to go to the management and monitoring committee and to the 2nd. I hope we can so finish this thing right now. I think it's time for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u62	V.E.G. President. I think we're right next door. A senator's claim that this is a mixed subject. You see, I think there's a reason for a case falling asleep on a committee. This is likely because many times in times, especially those in Congress, are presented somehow in the heat of the game, even thinking that they are popular, but more often than not, they are unappreciative. Perhaps that is why they are not finished with a committee. They're not really such a way to vote for them. Therefore, they do not depart and do not enter the council. I think that's the big problem. I'm not gonna talk about when things happen here year after year as indelicate as they used to be and little or nothing would be better. I don't think it's very helpful for us to let such matters live on a whole term. I don't exactly see the problem with this, either. Of course, it can now be so that a good thing cannot be run out. Then they say again next time, just at the beginning of that assembly. Then there's a lot of time to go over it. Of course, if they are good and are obviously supportive, they will be granted normal payment. I don't really see the big problem with the same system. It seems to me it's more and less the same in other countries, it's like it's kind of sometimes. [[The president calls.]] But I don't see that this case is an improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u63	Madam President. Yeah, it's a point of view. I think a case might be less likely to be presented in some populian sense or unthinked and badly developed if everyone was clear from the beginning that a poor case would just fall on no, if it were a tradition that members of Congress would simply retract cases that were won't be won and won any further. In fact, I have to admit that I thought I had a pretty good deal with the fact that in various states and, in fact, other countries, if that is the case, the matter would live between members of the council, but within the terms of the election. There's no half of it. This is literally done. I'll tell you what. A senator reading the bill and its report if he misunderstood something. But I would like to ask, "See! Brynjar Níelsson Do Nilsson's really no problem, not every problem with wasting, and I call it wasting, whole weeks of work, ten hours after year, just discussing the same old idea that a long time ago should either agree or refuse? See what? A senator's not doing anything wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u64	V.E.G. President. I think we're wasting just as much time by letting things live and stay. Then we will have more issues on our schedule, for this will happen automatically if we let them live. I don't like to vote here or give a position on a matter, you and the Pirantar should agree with me now on what you might be relatively comfortable with, but it's just not ready and it's not designed to make that a proper stand of it. You Pirates know it. You often reason that they cannot be taken into consideration. I think it would be fine in itself if a matter persists and does not recover and even escape a committee, that alone gives us reason to consider it better, making it easy to take sides with it. I don't think a bill like this really saves us time. There's more to it than that. It's not always that people cross the bills again. But if they can live, they can live. So, really, we wouldn't be saving any time. I don't think your waste's the same. I think it's most important for us senators, not to talk about senators' bills, that we take care of things better, get better help, like maybe they're doing something right now, making them so that we can finish them at each assembly for ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u65	Madam President. Well, there's a few things I can say. Of course, it would be desirable if Congress cases were generally better prepared and, of course, I have presented a case that I have so tried to reciprocate between Congress, and I hope that I can offer one of these things quickly. But the very point is that evil work is a fact. Many of them have become laws. We have recently, Madam President, in at least five cases of a tragically maligned case from the Ministry of Justice that was run through at high speed because there was a great need for this, according to someone. They have become laws and have made laws really bad, even dangerous for people. This case could have made it a little slower for contemporaneous treatment, had been more thought - provoking, had not been in any hurry to try to complete everything at the end of May or in the beginning of June because someone is so struggling to get away on vacation, but would be time for rest and thinking only the matter and finishing the treatment in the fall of the year or the next year or whatever it is. I believe that certainly we should seek to do better, but sometimes we just need a little more time. This is what Pirats and I have repeatedly pointed out, even in one such matter, but time will not, neither then nor now. That's why I think it's just a good solution to that problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u66	Madam President. There are a lot of things I have for this bill to check out. I guess, though, that's what I'm gonna do. The 1st transferer and his pals in Piranha have done well, this is the third time the bill is submitted, so it must be well thought of. You can come here with a case under the hat that you're trying to pay for good business, to secure the course of events that should be carried out, etc., then you're going to run through everything on one another's corners, i.e. I don't think it's the whole point of the move. If so, I want to give special attention to what is in the 3rd mg. 1st par.: ▪ The Committees of the Parliament shall submit a committee opinion on matters that have been referred to in their case at the end of each legislature council. Now I ask, how on earth are you going to do it? A member of Parliament and 1st Transporter making sure this is going to be? If, on springtime, a universal case is given, according to these new terms, suggested here to be instituted, the committee should be completely independent of the number of lawsuits, regardless of the circumstances or weight of the case mentioned in the Committee, resolve the matter with a committee. He must assume that the committee is doing its job, ensuring that it can be taken into consideration, etc. I'm gonna ask you how the hell it's gonna be. A senator making sure that the NTSB can resolve matters in the way suggested?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u67	Madam President. It's a good question, isn't it? If there is a better way to reach our goals - because our goals are quite clear and I think that it is. A senator should be able to agree with them, for we are trying to reduce waste of time and improve the procedure of the council - perhaps. A senator will let me know where that is because I think it's a goal worth achieving. At the time, I was taught that the advantage of criticism is to bring a better idea. So I propose. I have to admit that I've never been, like, what. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kárson, chairman of the World Council Committee, so I'm not necessarily in the best position to evaluate how Congress can be completed and treated on committees at the right time. But I would have thought that it would be ambition for all the officers of the Council to try to complete all the cases involved. Now I also know that sometimes the conclusion is that they are made in a very smooth, simple and direct opinion of the committee, suggesting that the matter be dismissed because they are badly processed. It's happened. I think there might be quite a bit more of a tradition, if things are done badly over their heads, that their course can be cleared. As I said earlier, I expect this will lead to more proselytization of the senators when they are beaten. That's the most natural way to get into this peripheral situation. A senator makes his remarks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u68	Madam President. I'm just gonna keep going. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy sat together on the Economic and Business Committee during the last terms. Eight of them I think I'm just a really good teamwork, and I think it was a financial and business committee that made sure that one of Porta's Congress business was successful and turned into law. There are various ways in which things can be handled and handled properly. However, I believe that such changes will mean that there must then be a much more strict insistent action on the proposed issues, perhaps also needed, as, for example. The U.S. Congress is known to have more than we expect when it comes to council affairs. I would have thought that this would be just like those ideas, which I believe are based on misunderstandings. I think it's a better arrangement, it's not absolutely any more than what we're dealing with here, they're just gonna die, they're gonna die, they're gonna die, they think it's so important, they've always got a chance to take it back to the new legislature. I think it's much more reasonable. We are not wasting our time by reviewing matters and just letting them fall asleep if that is the case. I think it's totally possible. I would have rather anticipated that Porta's members would make changes in the terms of Congress, which actually prohibited the execution of the Commission, the Government, the laying of bills, except for possible financial laws, and would replace them with a synonym, where it would be proposed at the council that a legal hearing on the council's behalf on this matter should be taken into account, etc. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps it would be possible to discuss it and would be a real miracle, but not that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-28-31.u69	Madam President. Yeah, well, I kind of have to say, it's an interesting suggestion for a man. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. I wondered why he hasn't personally submitted it. But I can't say that at this moment, I actually had time to digest that idea and determine if it's a good head. It's true that we had a very good cooperation on the Economic and Business Committee. It was one of our issues that came true, that was a very good case, which for some reason has not yet taken effect. At the same assembly, in fact, there was an election that would not be valid in this case, we took up a case on the deduction, the centrally shaped, and the decontaminated business logs that have been taken back. The matter was discussed in the Committee, and this was discussed at the Assembly Hall. It's been discussed again here, including transport address, in fact, was found only one hour and five minutes very short when compared to, for example The suggestion for changes in alcohol law that were being treated last year. There's a lot of work to be wasted with. Clearly, something must be done to improve the mood. But since I speak for an empty room where my interviewer has walked out of the hall, I'm going to stop here.
