ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u1	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 111, about the presence of an army at the Cheflavour Airport, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson. A letter has also been received from the social and equality minister where request is made in order to provide a written answer to a covering query. 142, on maternity or home, away from birth service, from the daughter of Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u2	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss a transportation plan. It has many good things to do, and there are many important assignments on the program. All transport improvements are to be celebrated anywhere in the country. On the other hand, when contrasting areas, now or in terms of elections, there is a bitter cry. The Easterns are certainly not happy. The contribution to the East, both during the first and second periods, is very small. The east feels left behind, and urgent tasks are placed at the back of their priorities. If we compare the estimated expenses to the Southlands, the numbers are striking. During the first period, the southern zones receive about $1.5 billion and the southern zone 2 is about $11.5 billion. That's less than 20 billion. At the same time, the eastern region receives less than 4.4 billion. If we take out the Hornland beyond parentheses, it belongs to the area of the Southern District, East receives 1.36 billion. If the work is carried out in the Orient, which a minister puts first, it is surprising that nothing seems to be listened to the will of the East itself. At the last main meeting of the Eastern Community, all the rural areas in the East agreed on the priorities of the work to be put first, that would be a tunnel to Saveland, and the road to Öxi. I assume that members of Congress know how isolated the Transgressors are often in winters, and they know a lot of traffic that now passes through a difficult road across Oxi. Neither of these projects is seen in the five-year schedule. Secretary of transportation. At times, we Easterners have been told that we are not able to agree on what is to be done in the fourth place. Today, local government officials have worked to set priorities. It is important to listen to such people. I challenge the highest. A minister and a whole body of Congress are making changes in their transport strategy so that a five - year plan can be seen not only by a road above Axi but also by a tunnel to Sufjörður.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u3	Mr. President. At present, unions are supplying their claim for collective agreements available at the end of this year or the beginning of the next one. The shorter working week's schedule has been prominent, not only as a direct matter but also as a result of the impact on the happiness and well - being of families in general. The VG convention agreed on the last weekend resolution on thebbreviated week of work, along with other options facing pay and dress issues. Let us take a closer look at thebbreviated work week. For many years, signed has spoken for this way as an important social change, as well as for the benefit that is evident to the common people. More recently, environmental policies, less eco-efficiency, and consumption as well as adjunct to waste, have also become prominent in these ideas. Consider whether a person with less job obligations is not more likely to use environmental methods to get to and from work. Consider whether a family with more time together is not more likely to move, walk from place to place, go to shop rather than drive, cook from the ground rather than buy other groceries because of lack of time. Would we take time to recycle more fully, to repair things, and even to learn them? Would we give ourselves a chance to cultivate our own vegetables or make a trip walking or a bicycle to buy environmental products? This may be the shortness of the work week for green economic growth. Let us take time to enjoy more of nature and thus gain a deeper understanding of its value and importance. If we answer yes to these questions, we should be encouraged to fight hard for a shorter day of work and thus, of course, accept the demands of the labor movement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u4	Mr. President. The situation of national employee movement is deeply and strongly rooted. ASI is over 100 years of age, history describes remarkable progress in people's rights and in the management of all. The labor movement has laid the foundation for our welfare community today and has cooperated with state, rural and professional agreements to get us into the best order of welfare society. What we believe is a self-reliant right to the job market has been achieved by the struggle and solidarity of the people who led the way into the struggle for rights and struggles of the past years. We can mention such things as illness rights, holiday rights, unemployment improvements, pension and medical funds, social housing, birthworm, status clinics, holiday houses, and further figures. All of this brings us to the unselfish struggle of our ancestors and of our formalists, who cleared the way for those who are now in charge of the national employee organization. Today, the labor movement faces many difficult challenges in modern society, such as. Social substitution, the practicality of people, the man-soldier, the bad equipment of foreign workers, the workforce of employees, and the social social security. Let us join the labor force in the coming agreements and look to the lowest paid at the labour market, work together to restore housing and build up our welfare system, and correct what has gone wrong. During the past half century, those who have stood in the front row of a battle are one by one to get over the big insult. Now the father's powerful advocate of workers, the laborman Pétur Sigurðsson of the West, former president of the Allied Union of the West, and the first president of the Projection Society of the Western Society, has come to his senses. He also sat at the General Assembly as a deputy of the Allied Party. Blessed be his memory. May new labor leaders take men like him in the future as role models.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u5	A respectable president. The World Bank of Human Resources is put together to encourage the nations of the world to invest more in what brings real prosperity in the future, education and health of individuals, so that they can do future work. According to the human resources, Iceland is at the bottom of the North countries, and this is the education that will drag us there. Iceland is also at the bottom of the northern countries when it comes to making money to the university. Iceland's human resources will therefore be deprived of over a quarter of their potential life - style. The economic growth of Iceland will be considerably lower than it could become and the quality of my Icelanders. In a government contract, the highest. Governments say that the university budget will reach an average of the OECD countries in 2020 and the Northern countries in 2025. It's the same budget as the highest. Governments, however, do not reflect that word. To achieve an average OECD by 2020, an increase of $3 billion would be needed to reach the university level over the next two years. It doesn't matter which accountrix and PR effects are pulled out of the top hat. Governments, it's just nothing's being done. You can see in the bill for the budget of 2019 that the government does not even intend to achieve its own goals set out in the financial program of the same highest level. Governments, however, were not particularly lofty. In the 2019 budget bill, there's an overall increase in the college runoff of 152.6 billion. K. That's half a percent. It is the real amount except for general pay and prices changes. The amount of money per student will not increase according to the budget, except by a reduction in the number of college students. Is it really the highest goal? Governments reducing the number of students at university in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u6	A respectable president. I come up here in the General Assembly front to call attention to the most serious health center of the Southnesian Institute. For a long time, the inhabitants have enjoyed false security and are now involved. The family medical system on Southnes simply does not exist and specialised service is limited. A surgeon's opinion of the quality and safety of the HSS, published 2017, paints a dark picture of the operation. It says, with permission from the President: ▪ The concern of doctors and nurses is inadequate and may be reduced to possible safety due to insufficient design. Clearly, health care is subdiscovered by professionals, especially by mental - health teams and children's treatment teams. This was a situation of 2017. Now I'm afraid she's even worse. People are exhausted, and the costs are high because of illness. Experienced nurses quit their jobs, and the work environment is too much for them to handle. According to the Agency, the number of people in its territory has increased by 60% since 2005 and by 18% just in the last two years. There may be a huge increase in tourists here, but the HSS also serves the international airport. You would think there would be an inevitable increase when it comes to budgeting for the HSS, but it is not. According to the budget now being handled by the Council, there is an actual increase in HSS in the minimum and total budget for each population as well. I'm amazed at the fact. I encourage health ministers and members of the United States to dress up and ensure adequate health care on Southnes once and for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u7	Mr. President. Today, the Council will be presented with changes in the scientific research laws on health. The bill transporters are eight female members of all members of the council. The bill discusses whether and when patients should receive information that may be obtained in scientific genetic research that may involve their health, medical treatment, or life expectancy. This may be a life-threatening condition or high risk of disease. The laws on scientific research on health care do not address the handling of such information. It's urgent to make things right, and that's why we're doing this bill. This adjustment means that the responsible investigator should immediately report it to an official surgeon if an diagnosis of a serious disease or result is obtained which shows the overwhelming likelihood of having a serious illness that can be managed. The surgeon (s) should then inform the individual and give him advice on possible treatments. At any time, an individual may decide that he does not want such information and will report his request to the surgeon's office. So this bill seeks to ensure the right of those who want to know as well as those who do not want to know. For example, consider the need for the bill to have an Icelandic genetic analysis of encrypted data in over 1,000 Icelands with the pathogenic mutation of BRCA2 genetics. The mutation carries a high risk of developing hereditary breast cancer and ovarian cancer, while there is an 86% chance that women diagnosed with severe cancer may develop it. The ratio is lower in men. Certain measures may be taken to reduce the risk of developing cancer if they are alerted in time. The experience on the website has shown that this method is not sufficient to reach all who need to be informed, so the adjustment of the law is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u8	Mr. President. It was such a shock to watch Sigurbjörg and Þóra Björg on the show let me live on national television. The stories were recorded, and the events behind the picture allowed me to fall, and there the drug's problem is black in white. Since the movie promises to fail, there was an premiere less than three weeks ago and until we saw the documentary, I promise to live 54 because of an overdose. For example, we have a fine system based on our trusting institutions, such as the Vog, in order to care for those who need to be treated with an addiction. All right, but that's not enough. Why don't you just do better and attack the list of waitings that you're facing on the air? It is more important than tears to observe people who want help and want to stop using drugs in the system over and over again. They are referred to and returned to new places. All follow-up is missing. Detoxification is one step. Living the rest of your life after the rehab is different. When people are far removed from disease, most are without money, homeless, friends live in exactly the same world, the backland is broken, and the family has given up before they recover. So there is a great need for support for individuals who are involved and who need help in living after the rye of addiction. Thus, the system must begin to accept addiction as a terrible disease, a grave disease, and treat it as such. That's why I say we have to do better. It's not a government or a government issue. It's a community thing. We are to support the government at any given time in doing better because we need to put our hands on the problem, we need to attack its roots, and we need to stop sticking a system that clearly does not cause the task. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u9	Mr. President. Yesterday I read a report about three scholars who had obtained literature and published literature articles that were from the beginning to the end of a lot of nonsense. One of them even received a prize. Although I think it's very funny, it's very serious. This is serious because it is so vivid to the position we live in. The amount of different information is virtually inexhaustible and too little to be proved, for trust is perplexing. False news is fact, and there is much distrust in information. Algorithm makes a echo. Group-to-group audiences are shrinking. We in this room can do what we can to resist this trend by handling the facts ourselves. From this point on, much claims are being promoted that find their way into the media and then peer into society as fact. People should be able to trust them even if they have different opinions. President. The purpose here and now is not to give examples or to point out particulars. Simply put, the objective is to mention that we are generally at odds enough to reason very much and very loud. We can do all the work we do, and we can communicate without flogging the facts. No matter how much it may devote to the occasion, no matter how much we believe in the cause, the level of credibility in the community will gradually be reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u10	Mr. President. What am I gonna talk about here today? Why not talk about those who send us letters, telegrams, e - mails, text messages, and anxieties? So, as a senator gets messages from people in the community, we're so lucky that people are pointing out things that can be done better. These mails show that there is still a tremendous amount of anger in society after the collapse of the bank, and the circumstances of many people are still very poor, both for that reason and for the general population. We must not forget that nearly 10,000 homes went through an forced trade process in the years following a crash, apart from the many who had to leave their homes after contracts with credit institutions. There are many wounds, many of which are unhealed. Many of these messages indicate that people experience a lack of anger in the system, do not get answers, solutions, or help. For almost six years, one messenger has sent a letter to all of us members of the government and the courts mailed us weekly, an emergency call for help. It is important to listen to people, and if possible, to meet these parties and listen directly to their concerns, problems, and struggles. Mr. President. It is as obvious as I am here that the effects of the bank crash will be realized in that its victims will be completely satisfied with the failure of the government of those who were forgotten when the financial system was being restored, since the financial system was rebuilt, not the numerous homes and families under heavy credit machines at that time. It's not an option to put your head in the sand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u11	A respectable president. A week ago, the General Assembly granted a provisional minister to grant employment permit for fish farming past all routines. The discussion stated that it was actually being given to a sea manager comparable to that of an environmental minister. Then I began to scratch my head a little, and I began to look at the sources of an environmental minister, where it came from. As far as I can see, this warrant has introduced some changes from the Environment and Transport Committee in May. a year without any explanation of the adjustment proposal, on that authority. It is not mentioned in the committee opinion or in the front row. There is no firm grip on this minister's warrant, his authority to deliver this restricted authority from e.g. The Communion Convention. The limited power of a minister is actually on our level in terms of law. We're setting up laws to the executives, specific and clear rules on where their boundaries are, where their authority lies. When it comes to such suggestions from the Council rather than from the bill on changing the laws of commitment and pollution control, you need to ask why such a modification proposal can arise without explaining when we are here personally responsible for the Commission and its monitoring. It works on our authority and under our supervision. When we don't set a framework for these very open sources, we need to ask ourselves very large questions. We have to call for a specialised person's attention on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to quote Kim Larsen with the permission of the president: It's not like you're going to be able to think about it, but it's because you're not going to be able to do it. De Hyrke shall have the sg nok clarie herself. Or so I'm going to write it over in English: I don't understand what government is, if not, to help those who are less fortunate. The Strong Will Survival Parents are the directors of their children. They should be careful that they are successful, that they will receive the help they need. But what if difficulties arise? As parents, we are to protect our children and do all we can to make them feel good. What if parents do not have the means to protect their children's well - being? So, what's the safety net? I don't want to live in a community where only their children can read and receive the necessary services. Children should not be bitten if their parents are not equipped to fight for their rights. Our rights should not be hidden and should not be, so we need to read through law columns to fight the system. The system is to include children, informing of their well - being, and ensuring that quality of life available without regard to economic, disability, maternal, family type or social status. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u13	A respectable president. On October 10th. Consumed the Commission of the Quantum Community on Job Assessment. It would be nice to know how many of us in this hall have studied that conclusion. In short, this is what it involves: Iceland's Institute of Generosity is totally against the quality of work in the form it is today. Why? Because it really is based on nothing but the creating of insecurity, fear, and distress in microorganisms in general. What does it have, e.g. the translation of inviting people to a job estimate -- who says what it is, 25% workers, 50% workers? Go out to work, you're going to make half-improvement, we're going to try to get you half-improvement, because, as the situation is today, there's only a grant of 30,000,500,000. if you are evaluated for 50% of your ability to work. But where do you get that job, top dog? President? I wonder where the job might be. It's not really anywhere. The labour oce is now over 400 candidate applications who wish to get into the labour market in part - time work. But that's just not available. It is not enough to create a system and push aside a system that the Quantum feels much better, is safer and more secure, especially if the system we live in today and it ensures better, would be extended closer to the needs of disability and made more efficient and without all these impairments. What we've had at the table with us now is, for example, A dollar a year or so, it appears to be a transliterated plot to eliminate it. Of course, you are eager to see what comes to pass. I always say that optimism and smile save the day, and that's why I'm standing here. I have faith that in this hall there is a collection of good people who truly want to join our hands and give our little brothers and sisters a helping hand in making them more comfortable lives in our beautiful land.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u14	A respectable president. This weekend, however, the first shovel was taken, several of them, to the new treatment center of the Land Hospital. What an important milestone and joy it is that this phase has been reached! However, there is a reminder that we are about to begin here in one of the last hours of the largest official implementations of a cost plan of about 55 to be five thousand and sixty billion. It is important to keep in mind an average of 70% of the cost of public projects. If that is the case in this important work, the treatment core will be, not 60 billion, but 100 billion, or 40 billion more than we expect today. I'm going to hope that the monitoring of this project will be better, but it's been the case with official projects so far. I also hope the project will be better, and it will benefit all of us, so we don't have to be in that situation, that after about six years, this has been the case again. This is worth keeping in mind in the discussion of these very days, an important discussion, of the cost of public activity. Examples are endless. Sports are frightening to these substances. We are now completing the construction of a new hospital hotel in this same box with a cost plan of 2 billion. The task is already 18 months past the planned completion and there is no information about the cost. This is not credible when we begin a much more expensive operation on the hospital core itself. It is important to have satisfying answers to the final costs of the hospital, but I certainly hope that the treatment core itself will be more successful, both temporarily and equally, in terms of the cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u15	Mr. President. I'll come up here for the first time. There are many things that burn on me, things that matter a great deal. I realize, though, that in this brief period of time, I can't get over just a few things. I have to give you an example, though. During these days, we are continuing with the construction of a land hospital on the Ring Road, which I believe is one of the most serious mistakes that has been made for a long time. I don't think we as a nation have been biting out of the needle by mistake. I can't believe you could mention these classes that sold them to a minister's chair. I have to mention a recent development of a transport program, which includes the phenomenon of a city line over the necessary road repairs in the country. You see, Mr. President, in many parts of the country, people have to accept driving a ruined road. I mention Brenhaf in that connection, the bridge across the river Shiver, South Far East, and, of course, there are countless others. But what I most resent is political discouragement for an elected representative of the country. It is an endless pack of pieces, either known as fragile areas, economic cold areas, or other such. This is certainly an effort to help these areas, but this does not change the fact that the approach is wrong to me. We're supposed to make it possible for those companies and people who choose to live in the country to be there. We don't even have to find the bike. I specifically mention the Nordic Powerhouse project in the United Kingdom. We need to apply the specific tax appeals to the new projects in the country. I mention the path that Norwegians take with different taxes after their dwellings. I call for political courage to go to meet the country's settlements. Would it not be easy to lower the taxes of those who live in the country? Are they getting the same in service as others, although in many cases at least as much as it is? It is true that in many cases, people in the region are spending enormous amounts of money making full - time use of the services that everyone is supposed to have. [[The president calls.]] What is e.g. to have reduced taxes on economic cold areas and thus encourage building up?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u16	A respectable president. Freedom of speech is the foundation of democracy. I'd like to be happy to know that at the Board of Justice, we have the IMI premieres, which will later be submitted at the General Assembly. For this reason, I'd like to remember that the bills are the product of work that began at the conclusion of the General Assembly in 2010, but the 1st campaign official was then on the move. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. I'll be talking about the originals when they come in here, but I'd like to try to rearrange a spark that started after the 2008 economic collapse. Although the collapse involved a massive damage to society all of it, it still produced power. Before a collapse, it was the dominant idea that everything was so fine that we had no effort to be the best at anything, but after a collapse it turned around and the community realized that in order to live up to a reputation, it needs to be deserved. Despite the darkness, some dreams came from the ashes, and from it even came to pass. Take pride that we'd be at the top of expression and information freedom and exemplary, best. The world has been in a hurry to celebrate, and since then Iceland has enjoyed the reputation of being the first to protect informers and freedom of expression and information. Sadly, that reputation has been completely undeserved, and today's situation is rather awkward when we, who have given much thought to the seminary, have heard expressions of praise spoken by foreigners who do not know better. In fact, we have gained the benefit of that reputation without lifting a little finger to deserve it. Little by little, people from abroad realize it. That is why the bills are on their way into the council. We can still test the fantasy that Iceland will not only be good enough but it will be best in the affairs of expression and information and not only enjoy the reputation that we've been doing since 2010 but also deserve it. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for his show ambition.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u17	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the opportunity to conduct this talk on the program and thank you very much. Minister for being here to answer. I haven't run out as much, and I've written as much in a talk I've written here at a council and around this party, as more and more details were being presented and what this word, prevention, was all about. But I'm not gonna waste my time talking about it. I'm very grateful for this special discussion about prevention, especially since the discussion is more likely to allow us to find a way particularly to prevent the increase in alcohol and drug abuse and age. This addiction has become common among young people as low as 12 years of age. That's a fact. Those of us who are worried about this are powerless. The word prevention covers a wide range of areas that seem to be growing all the time. So in this preparation I have tried to limit myself to a few things. There are three precautions I have in mind here today, i.e. Alcohol and drug prevention, mental health, and what are called secondary preventive measures. What can we do to prevent the development of drug abuse by young people and the fact that youths are increasingly injecting themselves to 12 years of age? When you ask the person working in the treatment sector, the answer is: Divert the utilities and inhibit the availability of chemicals. Despite 25 years of open observation, I personally have no ultimate answer. At times, though, I have felt that I have found an answer at some point. Although the alcohol and drug problems were high 25 years ago, the landscape, so to speak, has been irreversibly affected by the fact that the Internet was not then. Today, however, the trade of illegal, well - thought - out drugs is taking place there. The Internet welcomes all age groups to a game. One thing is certain that schools have a lot to say when it comes to prevention. And, of course, parents and guardians. However, different family circumstances make it possible for children to start experimenting with material, regardless of their names, they should be more likely to be more aware of their risks. The work of changing a child's thinking requires that the government be maintained. I've said for a long time that those who decide not to start and say no are not missing anything. I take my own hat in front of those who make that decision. The second degree of prevention includes e.g. This means that if you have a back disease or joint problems, you will be trained in professional ways and will be helped to get more exercise, less pain, and better health. Alternatively, alcohol and drug therapy is secondary prevention. Treating an alcoholic and helping him recover makes the person a better role model, but good models are one of the best preventive measures in the world. The importance of parental enlightenment and training was shown at the convention entitled "For Young People From Drugs. " And if a child's problem is interrupted immediately, often called early intervention, the well - being of children is the community. Let's not forget that a large percentage of the people have problems with alcohol and drug abuse. Some claim that the ratio is up to 20%. Someone said being a teenager or a child is no joke today. This may prove true when we discuss matters that are under control. As mentioned in my talk, the Internet has become a major crime scene. They say it's quicker to order drugs than pizza on the Internet. [[The president calls.]] I want to thank you very much for this program, and I know there'll be some very good discussions about this party today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u18	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for discussing these vital aspects of health care and of our health care system, which, of course, stretch their way into the community everything and, as well as at home in other areas of society than in health care, i.e. In education, social services, and everything that brings the community together. Everywhere we go, we have an impact on making sure that we have the best health. In this country for many years, there have been powerful prevention efforts, some of which have been taken for a country and an elf, and every reason for us to be proud of what has been done well. It is always based on a multi-cooperative job, cooperation, and cooperation in the community. Of course, there are very many health - care factors and people's health on many other issues, as I mentioned earlier and in addition to those I have already mentioned environmental and economic issues, since the economic and collective issues are also public health in a sense. There is a direct increased risk of ill health and health problems if people live in poverty. Hv. A senator asks how a minister intends to employ himself. Public healthism is now in force until 2030, but its primary objective is to promote health and human health in all ages with special emphasis on children and young people under 18 years of age. Legally, it is the office of a surgeon who is intended to contribute to the health of the people of the country, including the U.S. by promoting public health work in the country and by carrying out the services of many health - related projects. These include projects on health-elevating communities in cooperation with rural areas and public institutions, etc. The Commission has also directed the project to the Health School since 1999. The public health programs have been published, came out for the third time this summer's beginning. I would like to encourage senators to study public health, since they are good tools for considering the development of human health in the country. They are divided by parts of the country and are designed to facilitate both rural and health care and the school system to identify and react accordingly. Then I'd also like to mention that there has been a particularly public health fund since 2012, but the public health fund has the responsibility to strengthen public health in the country. Then there are many general and health - care programs in all the health systems and in the schools of the country. Hv. Second, a senator asks: "What kind of work will the one here to make sure that a subversive organization such as the U.S.A. and an organization can work together and with different administrative points? " I am stressing the importance of such radioactive organizations, which have had a major impact on the development and structure of Icelandic health care, but I would also like to mention that we must always be careful that the interests involved are the ones that the system should serve. How important it is to listen to the views of those who render the service, the botanical organization, their voice is highly important to the Ministry's work, and they have been sought for these voices in particular. Teamwork across institutions is important. We see this in many assignments. There's a lot of publicity here. It is the goal of increasing the transparency and potential of the public to participate in policy activities. Every year, we advertise on applications for funding from partners for special projects. For the next month, I will attend a meeting of health, which will be open to all, including the parties as well as anyone. A senator mentions. Third, the candidate mentioned whether working to increase the risk of mental health problems, especially for young people. Mental - health issues are a vast array of languages. There's a lot to do there. We feel it in the Ministry and, of course, we feel it. Parliaments also realize that there is a public awareness of mental health that is reflected in the community. in the Treaty of this government. I have stressed the growth of mental health problems and the strengthening of the seminary at all levels of health care, both in prevention and at health care. As we are increasing in the number of psychologists and mental - health teams, there is an improvement in the strength of national health care facilities. This is evident in budgetary proposals for 2019 C.E., and we provide new 650 million to strengthen health care within our health - care providers. We have also emphasized an action plan to reduce the number of suicides, as well as that recently published instructions on the vandalism of cannabis and other factors that I, a respectable president, hopefully have the means to talk about in my second speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u19	Mr. President. The presence of the government is required to increase prevention by means of careful action and to ensure financial support for its implementation. In the concierge of the United States, which is now in progress at the end of the year. A well - being committee, for a timed and financed plan for the next four years to strengthen a child's position, is particularly about prevention. There we suggest that the health of young people, including those of young people, be stressed. by increasing exercise and improving nutrition and food selection. Education and prevention of overweight and improvement in treatment and availability to improve game- and-time assessment will be emphasised. We also suggest that young people be provided with proper instruction on the effects of alcohol, drug abuse, tobacco consumption, and the use of electronics as well as illicit drugs. To improve the health and well - being of children and young people, a special focus is to be placed on public prevention and education in the community in regard to mental and social well - being, violence against children, and neglect. This will be done by adding emphasis on mental well - being, wholesome leisure activities for all children, and upbuilding use of leisure time and family life. In cooperation with social and social organizations, the availability of all children and young people will be improved by sports and social activities, especially by those who live in poor economics or by borders in the community. The Union also suggests that the availability of all children will be guaranteed by the existence of psychological services, both in schools and in health care throughout the country, as well as by the introduction of children to the services available and on the rules of confidentiality, such as the right of children. And that disabled children will be guaranteed all the necessary support and service and will be strengthened and supportive. This involves much less prevention.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Victored Páll Jónsson for needed discussion. I have observed Dr. Guðlaugsson Gudlson's work, a host of health benefits in my rural society, which is the health of prevention projects for 65 years of age and older. Already, he has 200 members of the Soviet community, Rhinestown, and Hafnarfjörður, who, while taking responsibility for their own health, are sharing with remarkable results. It has been found that after one year under the guidance of Dr. Janus, drug use has been significantly reduced, a person's feeling is much better, and e.g. have had a blood pressure decrease of 6 to 10% in the group that is better than the best medicine. At each year in a wide range of health care programs, the provision of the group in nursing homes will be spared 5.2 billion per year. In Iceland, the rate of nursing is 50.2 billion a year. Over the next 15 years, the number of patients in the group will increase, i.e. 65 years of age and older, about 61% and 80 billion each year, respectively. We must consider other ways. Health, health, and a variety of health practices in rural society are the key to a better lifetime for everyone. They saw our neighbors in the North years ago, and we have to follow through. We will also have to show that we want to work for prevention, support institutions such as the National Institute of Health, the Hog Hospital run by the U.S.A., Hl surgerykot, and the Krysavík Association. This reminds us of the two TV shows we've watched last two nights. It is heavier than tears to see the calamities drugs bring upon those affected, their families, and all of us. You've been crying for less reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u21	A respectable president. I must admit that I find it a little difficult to talk about prevention, at any rate on drugs, without discussing drugs in a slightly larger context. I'm still gonna try. Prevention is a methodology in which society seems to exist, and the General Assembly exists, i.e. if it can properly finance that group, something that I have had to wait for another discussion. I've been watching drugs, though, a lot since I was a teenager, and I've always felt that society's relationship with drugs really crazy, that's really toxic and weird. I have experienced this both personally and by people I know who have been in use that they do not believe the authorities because the authorities do not appear to be trustworthy in the whole group. It's a completely independent problem. I understand this has been getting very much better in the last few years. I remember what prevention was like when I was a teenager, they weren't good for me, some called it drugs because they needed credibility. They needed kids to be told the truth. The discussion was characterized by intense emotion and shouts that are not convincing to youths who are in the middle of questioning the exact things in their own community. That is what we do primarily when we are young, doubt, and coagulate. When such a spirit is faced with something that is not credible or that is misleading, it can fail. As I'm saying, it's been getting a lot better over the past few years because people have adopted some well - established methods, i.e. researching how well the method works and asking yourself what is best to convince a child that at least waits with it and, of course, let go of it. The basic requirement is that we stick to practical methods and not allow our actions to be motivated by emotion at one time or another. Much of this is a scientific question, and we must consider it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u22	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson for bringing this important matter to the fore. As we have seen, the principles of prevention are the key to improving human health and likely the best investment in society's future. In the context of that discussion, I would like to bring the attention to a matter in which I and the rest of the candidates and others have submitted several times to take the lead. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor. Its core is the reimbursement of human work in the new building and maintenance of the athlete's activities, the design or monitoring of new building or rebuilding because of the maintenance of such facilities, as well as the purchase of such projects. We do not need to be noted as to the national importance of sports, for many studies confirm the preemptive value of sports. Participants of organized sports work reduce the likelihood of any abnormal behavior. The situation of several members of a rural community now holds them in place during the construction of the athletes. That's why I want to encourage the highest. The minister and the government all to see if the communities can be met in these matters. Where good sports facilities are, it has been found that people of all ages take advantage of it, older people of the past part of the day, the younger parts, and so on. The local community has cooperated with the office of surgeons in a successful and public - health business. These include health - borne society. In addition, Hafnarfjörður and Smokeytown have made a contract for a wide range of health practices among older people under Janus Gunnlaugsson. In view of the fact that fewer people do than I want to, I believe this will be done all over the country. So I ask if there are plans to promote this approach. Motion can be a part of a variety of preventive measures and at all ages keep youths from eating, improve mental health, and prevent a number of health problems in all ages. Of course, prevention is a complex and dramatic task. But as we say in my country, things can be done in the early stages.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advisor for a good and useful discussion and the highest. Secretary of health for being with us today. Hv. The phrase "precautionary " speaks of three things. He's talking about his drug problem. More than 600 people are on the waiting list for help, after receiving help. Why are the people asking for help? Why is it so weak? What can we do to prevent these people from being so many and so sick? It's where we're about to build a defense. Why is the mental - health problem so extensive today? It may have to do with everything, drug abuse, mental illness? Our children feel bad when they do not get an analysis right away, wait for it for a long time, even for a year or two, to really go to school and enjoy being a student at school. They don't get noticed, can't read. Above all, there is another phase of prevention. It was found in a show we saw last night, where it was said that there is no different response to people who are busy and those who have accidents, to think. A respectable president. I think the magic words here are early intervention. People need to be caught, they have to be a safety net, and we too need to follow through. We must not forget that the principles of prevention are the key to everything, but we must not forget that we have to look at the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u24	Mr. President. First, I'm going to thank the advocate, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, for setting up this important matter. Western health systems have often been built to identify and cure disease. It is easy for us to deal with what has happened and to focus on handling the damage as effectively as possible. Of course, this approach remains important. It is essential for our health - care facilities to remain among the best public service in the world. We also need to invest in health and prevention. With money and change of mind. Health matters must also be involved in the prevention of disease. We have the fact that life - style - related diseases have become the most common cause of health loss in our part of the world and therefore health control, especially mental health care, of being a priority in health care, not just because of the obvious benefit in the form of better quality of life but because here we have a real chance of dealing with the great health benefits we have had and who remain in the cards in the health system. If health and prevention are to be successful, there should be a priority in health care as long-term investment in the health and well - being of the nation. A steady policy must be used to promote this class of parishes. Further parishes, so to speak, because we have the authority to be exemplary. We have examples, research shows that Icelandic youths are very successful, in fact, in comparison with OECD countries in drinking, smoking, and other factors. Our youths are thus exemplary. It may be me and the politicians who are in charge of policy and implementation and distribution of funds and emphasis and how we talk about things. We're doing a little business here, and it's probably distracting us that it's not a great deal of work. A change of mind is needed, which takes much longer to produce benefits than one ideal period. I agree with what's going on here and where we're living, it's not a parapolitic case, it's the case of everyone who is really interested in us taking control of these matters as a whole. [[The president calls.]] I've got to get to that in the next round.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u25	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson, for his discussion, and also for the highest degree. A health minister for being here. I especially want to discuss mental health matters that are the issues that I feel are most important to me in this discussion. Whether to choose first, mental illness, or drug abuse is difficult to decide. Perhaps they are not to be taken into consideration in a bilingual way. What matters most is that we continue to consider prevention in all areas of life. Prevention is in my mind to be the guide of the person from the cradle to the grave. It's becoming some kind of social awareness. Indeed, all of us find it in some way in our own skin. It is ours as before in this hall to support and firmly support the prevention, as far as it is, of course, the place they have done over the years. We should never think of prevention as a challenge. Rather, we must make sure that it is always active. At the end, I would like to point out that prevention costs little compared to the benefits it brings. We should, therefore, be particularly concerned with free members of this group. Therefore, I would like to encourage the health minister to keep that in mind, for it has often been needed but now is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u26	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður for a vital discussion. There are many areas in which protection is very important, but it is the young people whom I am most concerned about and especially the mental distress of young people. In high school students face problems such as anxiety, depression, addiction, and social phobia. Those of us who work and teach in that school are more often but not in the role of psychologists without any education. There is a great need to improve the availability of young people to provide psychological and mental health care, especially in the country. The problem is especially with young men. They seem to have more difficulty in finding a course in life, and most teachers find that it is often harder to turn their interest on than does young women, and it is harder to get them to take responsibility. Such problems can have disastrous consequences. With high school staff and teachers, we have too much experience in dealing with suicide and suicide attempts. The first thing we can think of is dealing with the problem by increasing access to psychologists and psychiatrists. This is important, but we should also be working more on prevention. We are to spend more time in the school system in preventing harmful behavior. Education is a password as often as it was before, so there must be room for it in the school system. Train Our Youths, e.g. about responsible Internet use, the importance of sleep, harmful risk behavior, the importance of talking about emotions, the importance of setting limits. Also, teach your parents about the same things. They are both educational and health - care issues. V.E.G. Health Ministers and Education Ministers are now working together to promote psychological services in high school. Among the suggestions that are considered are the availability of a targeted, high school - care unit, such as in elementary schools, and an increase in access to psychiatric services online. Also promoting prevention and education, e.g. in cooperation with health care. I'm celebrating that job and I'm doing the best I can. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir and Alfreðsdóttir the daughter of Alfred to impress her.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u27	Mr. President. I thank the advocate for this very need for a discussion about prevention, which, of course, are many. I'd like to take part in two aspects of prevention and there in a very ambitious paediatric and adolescent action program that we of the United States Congress have submitted to the council for a release in the form of a Congress resolution. First of all, I'd like to mention the family time that I think is most likely to have better prevention. At times when children and young people are being followed, they embrace and guide them through life through sour and sweet, but they really cost a wealth of state very little. Therefore, I believe that the government is truly looking at the future bargaining debates on the ideas of shorter working hours as well as making work hours more flexible, but also how to ensure that parents can better care for their children and young ones in terms of illness and/or disability. The other thing I want to point out the most. A minister on which she may then enter on a table at the highest. Governments, is equal for sports and hobbies. Today, rural society is certainly in part such, but local leisure concentrations are almost solely supportive of the important prevention of such practices because at the end of the charge, there are a number of other costs that need to be met. How important it is that we cherish the children and young ones who come from income - rich homes in this regard! Therefore, I would like to reflect on the idea that a part of government management that runs into sports relationships will be reserved for children and young men of income family so that they can also enjoy sports or other leisure activities that research shows that they are an enormously powerful reserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u28	Mr. President. Thank you for your important discussion. I was reviewing it while I was listening to fine talks here that two decades ago I was conducting a project called Ecstasy Education, still, even though it has a changed format today. What was so wonderful about this project was that it was fanciful of a very young person's desire to talk to his peers about the bad aspects of drug abuse so that they could have all of that information. Then they could do what they wanted to do. I remember, however, that we were quite critical of other agents in the business, so to speak, often correctly. But what I was thinking about and maybe I'm still, and I'd like to use this opportunity to mention is that I think it is very important that we don't get caught in one way or another, that we don't have some kind of preemptive approach to the state because young people are very different. Whether it is education or sports, even a little fear - inspiring, there are very different factors. It's different. I think there's a lot of work to be done by us trying to get closer to the project, so it's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u29	A respectable president. First, I want to say with those who have pointed out that this is not a great job. I want to take further steps, saying, "It's also a project that needs to change over time, because our community changes in these days and in recent decades very fast. It all seems that it will change even faster in the decades ahead. I don't know if it's just me, but I've seen our society developing so it's getting harder to keep it together because the world isn't just getting more complicated, it's also getting weirder. It is becoming increasingly apparent how much of our community will not be so easily explained by some balanced analysis of what can be considered as normal human behavior. Mental health, however, is still a huge tau, and it should not be surprising that mental illness involves character traits, cuts deep into people's souls. I can't imagine anything more personal than people's thoughts. But now that we're going to try to open up the debate on mental health, we're going to have to start speaking open and open, even publicly, and scientific issues that have been so personal and even built primarily, I'm going to just let myself fill in the gaps, on a religious foundation throughout history. It is mostly in the faith that people have found some answers to life's big questions, find some ballerina in how to deal with this life. Now that we live in this much more complex world, of course, we need to be removed from that path, and it is time, in fact, if I were asked, but it also means that we need to repair it, and it is damaging, with the help of mental health, both preventive and otherwise. It's mental health, just like the drugs, that I find it very difficult to just talk about prevention without getting into the rest. This is a very important subject. But I'd like to finish this on one sentence, which, in fact, may not be in complete context of this subject, but I think it's so good that I think it needs to have been said here: It is not a measure of health to be well-adjusted for a terminal society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u30	President. First, I would like to express my appreciation especially for this need for this discussion. It touches me in my heart as a public health expert for many years here in Iceland. I have to try to be very specific in the two minutes. I'd like to start by pointing to this big picture that people have been talking about here today. First, a fine article by Karl Andersenur and Vilmundur Guðnason, written in the 2013 medical journal, shows us how this global approach is. They take a good point and show us the relationship with human health in Europe. The European health costs account for the high degree of life - style related diseases that can be prevented. We've been aware of this for quite some time. Popularity category, including has stressed public health issues over the past few years and is the product of the socialism that came out of 2016 following the party. It suggests that Iceland will become the most healthy nation in 2030, leaving no time for us to lose. I'd like to point out that the SIBS recently made a list of total health costs, and it turns out that only 2% of total health costs are being protected. That's what we need to change. I'd like to ask you one question to the highest level. Health Minister on the task of hosting health care society and asking, because the project is needed and successful, whether the Ministry is considering the national benefits of the project as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u31	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir He Sigurður Páll Jónsson's victory for bringing up the matter. We're far from the time when the question was, would we be allowed to monitor the Marlboro man with a cigarette in his mouth riding about the deserts of Arizona? Now the availability of all kinds of drugs and drugs is very different from that one. The Internet has become quite easy and easy, and it does not seem to be the age of those looking for it. I was going to talk more about what I know best, i.e. Police in these matters, and tell you what I'm talking about when I'm talking about visible and general law enforcement, all the time. I'm talking about the police having time and resources, e.g. to visit schools that she used to do in the past, but all police force had such calls on their studies, schools, and elementary schools, talking to their children and discussing the dangers ahead. It was a constant part of the police operation. Another thing the police can't do if they're well - off is what they call initiative. What is it? It's that police officers can look after, for example. Businesses with illegal drugs, looked after Internet business, that they have time to do it, but they're not just doing calls, the police are called out police, which will only have to be extinguished as already on fire. I would also mention at the end that I will request a special discussion about young boys' problems and would like to thank you. þm. The Ingibjörg of Thord, who just walked in on this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope that discussion will be soon here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u32	President. I mentioned earlier that Iceland has every opportunity to be an exemplary country in these matters, despite everything. However, many people here have seen it in their speech. In addition to this, there is a rapid increase in the weight of the Icelandic nation. We fat more quickly than control nations with related health problems. Another factor that we need to take care of is the mental health of our young ones, who display increasing symptoms of anxiety and depression. There certainly is no island. Depression has been predicted to be the second leading cause of cardiovascular disability in 2020. Already, the most common cause of disability in this country and in addition to research, research shows that most of the mental disorders in adulthood have occurred before 25 years of age. It is simply necessary for us as a community to find ways to promote the mental health and well - being of children and adolescents, to promote prevention in the cooperation of schools and health authorities, and to increase access to mental health. All of this is the work being done. Besides, the good news is that we have great professionals who have educated themselves in this field and have devoted their career to improving our public health. The question is, How do we make the most of that knowledge, skill, and motivation? Health systems worldwide face challenges that cannot be met by organizational changes or cuts in one place to face an increase in cost in another place. We need some other solutions. This approach does not meet the needs or expectations of patients or staff. New births must be part of the solution. A project that is widely used by technology and community media, a project aimed at encouraging people to move, projects aimed at working against political and sexist ideas in schools and in workplaces, which are extremely important to root out deeply entrenched cultural prejudices in society that are not particularly directed against people with psychiatric problems. That's how you could count it for a long time. Although I would certainly like to see more innovation in the state of the part, and trust that I will do so in the near future because it is a large part of the solution, it is still that most of such projects spring from the grass root and from free communities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to finish my case here to encourage the highest. Minister to provide for that part of the system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much for the discussion that has been here on this case, prevention. One thing is clear, I'm not surprised at how many times I wrote the talk, and I used to erase it. That's kind of my conclusion because it's such a sea of problems if we can say so, as we wrestle when we talk about prevention. It may not be right to call it a problem, but a task, even when the problem is involved. This is remarkable, and we need future assignments. That's one and two things that have been going through the discussion, i.e. that this is really a big picture, not a challenge, but a long-term job or a long-term project. Then it is natural to talk about from cradle to grave. But, of course, there are also important tasks that I've been discussing and talking to the minister and asking a lot of questions, that is the situation in the treatment sector. We've talked about, and there's been a lot of times, in a speech in the past, that there are about 600 people on a waiting list in the state and what needs to be done to cope with it. They need to respond with extra funding. Just how much money it saves a country to take good care of prevention is also important. It costs money to save money, that's just how it works. That's what they're talking about, like other things. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I urge and encourage the minister to isolate himself into procrastination, as simple as it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u34	A respectable president. I like it like what it's like. Thank you for a very good discussion, but I think all of us involved in it have a very strong feeling that it's not over at all but that we've touched only a few factors. I think I may be with you at the end of this discussion to encourage a health committee to call the best - known members of this seminar class to their meeting and to have a little detailed discussion on this at the Committee, especially because this will certainly become a growing and stronger part of Icelandic health care. I'd like to mention a few things, and maybe, first of all, what's wrong. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned, which is very important, i.e. that prevention is solidly established on scientific grounds, used in practical ways, not on hunches or speculations. They often pay well, but if we are to use preventive measures, we must expect them to be well built and indeed be successful. Second, I'd like to say that the World Health Organization has produced 70% of the premature deaths in the world from the diseases that have been called chronic, including mental illness, as well as cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, diabetes, and cancer. The Agency notes that these are all diseases that can be affected by increased health care, lifestyle - related emphasis, etc. It is not only about improved quality of life as presented here but also about reducing the pressures of health care in which we actually do not react until the initial crisis occurs. Third, since we are here, in effect, talking about most of one smell of mental health problems, I may mention that it is important for all of us to maintain mental health in general. [[The president calls.]] We cannot talk about mental health as some smell or side project, etc., because a person who suffers from a mental illness also feels badly physically or vice versa. [[The president calls.]] It's all hanging out. The person is a composite creature, and health care must reflect that reality. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u35	Mr. President. This arrangement suggests that, in accordance with the laws on Iceland's Council of Government, the Ministry of Health is replaced by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs. As the change increases, I will review the evidence for this proposal that I will seek support from the Generals. Mr. President. There is a historic tradition for social care and health care, on the other hand. The Ministry of Social Affairs had a special service in 1946, the Health and Security Ministry of 1970. After 1970, well-being has shifted between these two instruments of government policy and what is believed to be a convenient and important factor for the progress of the problems. Also, well - being cases have been brought from other sources of advice to develop when children and young people were transferred from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Social Affairs in 1993. The main reason behind the proposed change is first to explain a work difference within the Council of Government in accordance with the view that the physical issues of the same Ministry and second, to sharpen political leadership in the important areas of the advisers, especially in the affairs of children, elderly people, workers, equality. It is also intended to ensure a better perspective and to promote more targeted leadership and administration in the relations of the local Ministry, so that they will be better equipped to handle the extensive legal tasks now under the Ministry of Health and devote themselves to policy, implementation and follow-up of their classes. Mr. President. This one agency goes through more than half of all government fees, 51% government fees. It's a big group of paintings. Over the years and decades, we've seen the greatest increase in expenses. Not only because of political decisions, which have certainly been supporting the health system, for example, but also because of demographic development beyond control. I mention to form a demographic increase in disability and rising drug costs, especially since we have seen a great improvement in the drug sector, which at the same time has cost a tremendous amount of money to the world's kingdoms. This has been the case and the cost of these classes has increased and is now more than half the government budget, which is thought - provoking. It is my conviction that the change of the order of these advisers will strengthen health and social administrations and increase the scope of each minister's ability to cultivate its policy-making roles, including following government policies as they appear in a government contract, but also to follow the fact that there's an enormously large number of mails on a trip to which each minister is responsible. It is assumed that the topic of the current Ministry of Health and Social Affairs will be divided in the same way as they now share between the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs by the current Presidential Court, except that equality issues, including individuals with sexual problems and queer people, are transferred to the Ministry of Directories and Services, now under the Environment and Resource Ministry, are transferred to the Department of Resources for Social Affairs. With the change, it is expected that the social and child - care minister will be altered and will reflect a plan for increasing emphasis on the issues of children and young people. Already the Council of Congress has been set up on the issues of the children of the social Ministry, which further underscores these priorities, and I expect much of it. Later today, we will also discuss the bill on changing the law on the Children's Agent, which further strengthens the position of children in Icelandic society and contributes to the continuation of the children's contract. I was here referring to a government contract with high priority on welfare and health systems and the structure of social and welfare systems. These are all key elements to build a strong society here. The change provides a basis for a new application in these areas. I mentioned the official subject of children's affairs, which is intended to reexamine the Children's Protection Act, a social setting in children's affairs, and a national service. The objective of this review is that children will always be put first in all the approach within the category and that there will be devotion to intervention as soon as possible and united in the activities of children and their families. Among the projects of this new Department of Social Services, children's policy, vision, and goals must then be developed, priorities, and the aims of a four - year strategy to be submitted to the Council and to be developed under the direction of a management group. It is expected that the Ministers and the Controllers will be given special advice to representatives of the institutions, members of society, and other agencies where children will receive direct access and support to express their views. I named a committee that has already been established on the issues of children, a transnational committee of members of all categories. Finally, children's policies and economic policies will be better connected, identifying the impact of individual budgets and budgets on children, and how to integrate the well - being of children with a general budget, as has been done to develop tasks related to the sensory budget. The principal reason why increasing cooperation is a key factor in the overall review of the current system, the service and child - making work is given by the above - mentioned improvements in paediatric affairs. The government also aims to review and improve the government policy on the affairs of the elderly and to have health and social minister begin to open up and holistic and detailed analysis within the administrative board on that issue. In this context, there is an active group in cooperation with the older citizen's National Association, where the changes made in the 2016 system are being reviewed and assessing how they come across different groups of elderly people. It's hard to talk about older citizens as a group of people, their situation is very different. In this regard, we have people who are well - off and people who are in discriminate, and it is important to appreciate how these changes appear to these different groups. Because of the large and populous nature of this group, it is very timely to reevaluate the definition of services to the elderly in all areas of society and also to evaluate whether specific legislation is still needed on the subject of the elderly. Of course, most or all of society's concerns involve elderly and pensioners in one way or another. The group of languages is very extensive, increasing, and it is clear that extensive discussions of the government and of all concerned parties are needed with the upcoming revision. The primary objective must be to improve the quality of life of this group and meet different needs. I mentioned earlier that equality would be presented to the Ministry of Presidency. Equalities involve the field of work of all recruitments. Many of the Ministry are taking major lawsuits that can have a major impact on the status and development of equality. As we know, Iceland has come out well when we compare equality with other countries, and it's a good thing to do. These include our status on World Economic Forum, where Iceland has been number one for nine years. It's important that we keep cards in check, and one of the main developments in this group is that it needs to appear in all policy areas. He's not only a specific case that's under the Department of Social Affairs but he's on education, on climate, on economic and government matters. It's supposed to be our guide wherever we come and whatever course we're working on. In effect, we have already echoed this tone by immediately establishing a Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities when the government was formed, but after reviewing this matter, our conclusion is to suggest that the equality cases be transferred to the Ministry of Justice. A review of equality lines has been initiated. It aims to expand the equality concept so that it not only reaches the equality of the sexes but is to be viewed out of far - reaching ideas. It also matters that these policies are turning into all kinds of lawsuits and departments. This category of languages also involves the affairs of queer people, and it is scheduled to provide ambitious sexual laws that will solve former sex - care laws. It's important that we achieve a successful review of the law and the administration so that we not only keep our position, so to speak, we'll do even better in equality. What a special joy it is to know that we have experienced a great change, at least We, who have been here for some time at the General Assembly, what equality has taken place since being a case on the edge of the political debate to be central in the political debate. That's a great change to celebrate. I think we should continue to use that change for good in the administrations so that we can provide these views in all policy areas. Then I'd like to mention the administrative material of an anthropologist now known as the Environment and Resource Ministry. They are suggested to move to the Ministry of Social Affairs, including this change. Suggested to better integrate existing administrative issues towards housing. Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Ministers are already treated with physical and physical forms of government, such as housing, housing, housing, housing, housing, housing partnerships, construction partners, multi-houses, private and labour market issues, but despite this transport, environmental considerations will continue to be given in this category. The domestic affairs are prominent in a government contract that highlights safe housing regardless of the economy and the residence as one of the most fundamental leaders of a powerful community. There, of course, to improve the balance of housing markets, to look at the different challenges between different areas of the country, to identify the problems ahead of time and to ensure that at any given time there are accessible analyses and statistics and to improve the availability of citizens to secure housing with improved support systems and consistent policy development of social housing, increased rent supply and increased housing information. The aim is to implement measures that lower the threshold of young people and to take fewer money into the housing market. In this respect, public support systems will be revised, so that support is especially useful to those groups. In relations between the state and rural income markets and financial institutions, there will be an increase in the availability and payment of new structures as well as the work being reviewed by law, rules and administrations under construction procedures. I point to the fact that there are still differences in government cooperation in these issues, i.e. The Environment Ministry, which handles planning, transport and rural government matters, and the Department of Social Affairs, which then handles the housing. The subjects will continue to overlap, but the same will certainly be true of more litigation classes. I'm here to discuss the issues of the elderly I mentioned, they're a group of lawsuits involved in most departments. What is the cost of all of this, will no doubt be asked below. Then I'd like to think it's gonna cost and I won't hide it. Of course, the effort will be made to maintain a good economy to the best of our ability. The two Ministry Departments will continue to add support to various services, but the intervention of the Ministry will result in a functional separation that in some cases may result in increased cost of operating. Thus, while promoting a joint support service in the Management Board, there will be an increase in the number of Ministry Directors, as well as in the need to identify the legal file of counseling and financial management. This estimate has been made that the cost of the substitution is 70 million, much less expensive than the dissociation of the Ministry of State, since there was only one minister in that Ministry. Since there have been two ministers with two drivers, the cost may not be high in this regard. However, there is a plan to add and promote administrative affairs, especially because of the big projects I mentioned. When we have 51% of the government expenditures at one Ministry, which will now be two different departments, if the General receives this proposal, we need to look to the work below. I'm giving you the building of a new hospital. I'll mention the medical expenses I mentioned earlier. I'm reviewing the social security system, and I'm giving information to children's issues that we are now going to put on increased priority. Although the cost of the substitution itself is 70 million, while the cost of the intervention of the State Department was, according to my information, about 150 million at its time, I assume that we will choose to make a special contribution to this Ministry on these issues. I'd like to mention, for example, that we are going to the largest conduct of Iceland's history, a new New Land Hospital on Ring Road, and I believe that the funds are well used to further support the administration that supervises and monitors this project and makes sure everything goes right there. I'm expecting a further cost. Also, I would like to mention that the equality issues are being moved to the Ministry of Presidency and my intention is to set up an office of equality. Such an office has not been available in the Department of Social Affairs, so it will be advertised for an office manager. That value costs about 25 million. I think it's important to be maintained. My time's over here at the pontoon. I could say a lot more than after this discussion, I suggest that this proposal be referred to the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u36	President. I really like these changes, but I'd like to ask you about the discussion. V.E.G. The prime minister spoke about the importance of the discussion, since these language groups overlap. I had imagined that while these two Ministers were together in the Ministry, it would be easier for me to consult. But I understand about this matter that experience shows that it is not. I would like to ask them, " How will this consultation be guaranteed, so important now that the Ministry is being understood apart in this way? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u37	Mr. President. Thanks for the inquiry. Sadly, both health - care minister and social minister who are not present at this discussion have expressed their view that it would be more convenient for the Ministry to be divided and to see a great advantage in this discussion. I listed one of them in my speech. How should a consultation with a minister on these important matters be ensured? I think the same is true wherever we look. We don't have a multi-organized government in Iceland. It is a project that we have been working on in recent years. I mention, for example, the Minister's Committee on Synchronization, a very narrow name for which the prime minister is assigned, and can, in effect, call any ministerial minister to discuss lawsuits. I imagined that in order to ensure this consultation, it would be reasonable for a Minister to be set up that would specifically handle the cases below so that it will be guaranteed. Although we are not multi-organized administration, I believe that for our administration it is so important that the Ministry works together, that there are no barriers between advisers, which I think we know completely who have known the administration, unfortunately, are often there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u38	President. I thank you for these answers and rejoice in the need for effective consultation. That's extremely important. Much of these groups overlap, and it is good for these ministers to talk together and to consider the overall picture. I understand that at the Department of Health now we have about 100 people. I'd like to be curious about how the switch between recruitment practices and if the staff need to be added to either department after the switch, then obviously outside the office manager. How will this be handled? There's talk of expanding and promoting administration. It would be interesting to know whether it would include adding staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u39	Mr. President. Yes, there are about 100 employees at the Department of Health. Of these employees, there are also more health - care issues under those categories and more people, in view of the fact that the equality issues, which are not a major issue, will be transferred. There are also other health care issues. But as I said before, we've decided to promote the administration of both sides. I mentioned the big projects. I think it's really important that we be more supportive of the government around them. I mentioned children's issues, I named Land Hospital and Social Security, and the changes we've been making in them because we know from experience that each millimeter change can remember everything. We know this after the changes in the Social Security Act that went against 2016. It is our will to support that administration. There we are not talking about the number of employees, but we do not refer to any status we provide for ourselves on either side of this assigned task. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u40	President. I must say that I am very disappointed that the task of running a joint welfare agency is being given up. It's not about how much money and how much it costs to have one of the department directors or two. It's about how much money you can save on medical expenses on the Department of Social Affairs and vice versa. The obvious fact is that this group of subjects has enormous cooperation options and, in fact, practical advantages, i.e. At the present time and also in the field of health care, expenses that can save us enormous sums of money in the social sector. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Why is this assignment so easy to give up? When I was in this department, I thought it was easy to create a good partnership between the social sector and the health sector. It was primarily due to political will, i.e. that the Ministers themselves wanted such cooperation. [[The president calls.]] Here, it appears, again, that the Ministry is having difficulty sharing the problems with stewards. Why not send the Ministers to a communication course?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u41	Mr. President. I don't really know what I'm talking about. It became very clear that the reason for this change is the will to support the administration of these two very important classes, not some communication minister. I'll just have to blow on something like this when it comes to how you talk about how you study for Ministers. I don't give anything for it. Every Minister needs to communicate. Hv. One member says: There are things that you can save on the health side and on the social side if the ministers could work together. This is all about the Ministry. Ministers of education at any given time need to cooperate with the health - care provider. It creates an increase in the savings of the system if we have strong prevention, health, and other aspects of our schools. Yet, we do not necessarily have to talk about the need to work together for counseling, do we? It's about cooperation, overall vision, and a powerful administration of two giant lawsuits, not just crowns and pennies, language groups that are of great importance to us as a community. I just agree with what. A senator says it's not just a dollar and a dime. [[The president calls.]] It's about a very important task for our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u42	President. Either way. Prime Minister gives a lot of credit, or I'm not just going to reiterate what I said before; this was the main reason why the Ministry was united in one ministry at the time of the Supreme Ministry. Prime Minister was in the government. I believe it was a very reasonable arrangement at that point. I watched and heard from inside the Ministry that it went very well with one secretary at the Ministry. However, when the two ministers became ministerial servants, there was evidence that there was some communication between the Ministers, which resulted in perhaps less cooperation between the individual burnings of the Ministry. But I was able to cooperate very well with the local authorities. On the contraryProppér we Óttar the number of instruments there. We have countless cases from the Scandinavian government that the Ministry is fired by more than one minister in order to achieve this harmony, while at the same time giving sharp political leadership in individual litigation groups. I'm just disappointed that they give up so easily on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u43	Mr. President. Let's look at Scandinavian government. It is the tradition that governments and executives at any given time are only critical of their work without having to approach the council. There are often very unusual combinations of schemes. I worked well with the Ministry of Equal Opportunities and Religious Affairs, as well as the minister of Culture. There, however, there is an extremely high movement between advisers. In fact, it is mainly the execution of the Commission's decision on how to benefit their administration. Hv. A senator points out that I was a member of the government when this Ministry was united. I was one of those who wanted to get more flexibility in the administrations, who wanted the execution of the European Commission to handle matters and give political direction to that matter, when it was being discussed with the Board of Directors and the greatest opposition was to the smallest change in them, just to be remembered, 2011 and 2010, if I recall correctly. The U.S. government needs to check out the council. However, the reason in this case is primarily professional, i.e. These are two very large groups of subjects who need considerable attention and care, that is what is being suggested. [[The president calls.]] There is nothing to interfere with the cooperation of these counselors between or between other counselors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u44	A respectable president. First, I want to state that I like the dissociation of these two advisers referred to here. However, there is one factor that is secondary to the change in the transfer of humanitarian activities to the Department of Social Affairs from the Environment Ministry, which I have doubts about. I would have considered it wise for me to have the humanitarian affairs transferred to the Minister of the Foreign Affairs of Transport and Regional Affairs. I would be interested in hearing the highest point of view. The prime minister's opinion of whether this was given, since the local community's issues are now and there's an offer saved, which is a lifelong problem that we have in the capital area. I'd like to know if there was a chance at some point in moving the workers' business to the Department of Transport and Division, whether or not it was considered specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good question. As I mentioned earlier, there are no laws of nature here. We know this from the other North countries in the way they order them to the Ministry. The idea of moving the Agency to the Department of Transport and Division was tore. The conclusion was to suggest that these topics go to the Department of Social Affairs with the arguments I covered earlier, which are that much of the housing is in the Department of Social Affairs. But that's right. A senator points to, heat supply, and so forth is the Ministry of Government. The human activities will remain in the Ministry of Environment until about a year if they are then moved, as there is also evidence to have them in the light of organizational legislation and other laws. In this case, these options were considered. This led to a conclusion that housing is not the least needed for more intensive policy development. We see the changed role of the camp loan fund taking on more policy - making roles in housing. It was considered important that this institution could be an additional form of policy development.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. The opportunity I believe now is to unite all man working cases, building-related cases, in one ministry, because I don't think that the situation of rural governments will ever be transferred to the Ministry of Social Affairs in an predictable future. Now, it would have been a good idea to combine all these issues, the environment and the planning, the humanitarian business, and the affairs of rural society. In itself, I don't have an additional question for the highest degree. Minister unless she wants to add something to that she didn't come to earlier. But I would have liked to see this opportunity new, since the government sets out on a different level with the work of moving these classes between halls. It would have been to form a complete agreement with the Industrial Association on this case, which is the organization that I believe has a thought - out opinion of developments in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again. He mentioned that he could not see it in the predictable future that the local government would go over to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Not long ago, the local government was with a social minister, so we have seen some adjustments in the language when we look back at a decade or so in time. I would like to reiterate that the reason I make this suggestion is my important policy role in the housing of the Social Affairs Minister. I understand that argument as a reason. A senator presents them, and he also considers them valid. But this argument was stronger when we came to the conclusion that certain housing policies were needed to be shaped for the whole country. As I mentioned, there are different areas. We thought it'd be a good chance. As I say, there may also be valid reasons for the rest, but we felt that these reasons outweighed the costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u48	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Prime Minister for the presentation. Of course, the origin of society is about crowns and pennies, not only but clearly, as well, and that's why I only want to remember what happened in the case of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir in the years following a collapse. At that time, the Ministry was united and expanded, so ministers received added help to their comfort and support because of the great work being done at that time. Today, when the numbers of people in the world today are increasing, the highest numbers are listed. However, the prime minister still needs every Minister in Iceland to have two assistants outside the emissary and temporary task manager and whatever we witness to these days?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u49	Mr. President. I believe that it is very important for a minister to explain the precise political assistants. I don't think two assistants are too up for ministers. I myself had a political assistant and political adviser at the Ministry of Education and Culture for which the law had been changed. A senator points out that the Ministers had two assistants. It was the Ministry of Education tradition because the Ministry of Education thought it was large and important to have staff to assist a minister. We have the tradition here that the government system is the government system and the recruitment of those hired there under the advertisement is professional. Based on the fact that professional committees make proposals for ministers, and I think it's better that it's as useful as possible who can be hired on political grounds, that it is defined, two assistants on the one hand, and, of course, often prejudicially in committees. [[The president calls.]] I'll mention, for example, that I'm calling outside parties to direct certain functions. That's not necessarily politics, sometimes only temporary expertise is being sought. The main issue is that it is transparent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u50	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. While there is a need for a strong staff to maintain and maintain trust, it is also important to remember that the money in the box is not inexhaustible. We may look ahead to the time when changes will occur. The size of the box is only shrinking. That's why I repeat my concerns. It's changing now, and it's got 70 million. K. costs, which are expected to be a permanent cost, as the manager and some staff need to be added. And then it's the highest word. Prime Minister on the importance of promoting administrative matters, and this is hardly done in ways that are beyond the reach of human beings. I have to say, I'm a little worried about what it's gonna look like and I'm gonna ask, is there any sign of all the money we're doing at the council these days? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u51	Mr. President. In my speech, I studied only that the changes will cost me. I expect suggestions, as long as they have a beginning at the council, will be made at 2nd. budgets for additions to budgets. I mentioned the replacement. On the other hand, I feel that when we go to a ten - million - dollar operation on the Ring Road, we have good use of money to ensure a good flow between the Ministry of Health and a new Hospital, there is a very close cooperation there to achieve its success. I think that by spending more money on the government, we are saving money on the longer term. So can I say, for example. on social security issues mentioned earlier, where millimeters of change are worth billions when we consider the examples. Then it's important that the government is powerful. Because of what? A senator named the government, which was placed here in 2009 in 20042013, the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, was one of the goals of changing government, promoting professional knowledge within it, having a more powerful administrative position. [[The president calls.]] I think that while this transition is about to divide up one Ministry to two, it's also about promoting the professional administration, and I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u52	Mr. President. I'd like to step in here on the matter of anthropologists in this council-sense proposal. It states that the Agency should move to the Department of Social Affairs, as we have seen here. The role of this important institution should be considered. National construction services are being supervised. The Agency will include: with the preparation of regulations and the preparation of building instructions, bioavailability, legislation for designers and industrialists, the publishing of job permits for the developers and professional laboratorys in the building area. The Agency conducts market managers and is involved in the production of Icelandic and European building standards. The implementation of the law No. 75/2000, for burns, plus fix No. 40/2015, the treatment of fires and the protection of natural fires, and the factors on fire management are presented in other laws under the Agency's control, such as the construction laws, construction laws, and regulations established by the Agency. This activity is required in the Agency's fireproof field. In particular, the fire - defense area of the Agency monitors burning prevention regulations of building regulations. It is working to coordinate the approval of the legislatures on fire defense demand and to coordinate national fire control with the local government. At that stage, the work is done to witness the burn characteristics of construction materials and the publishing of the service service providers as well as the services that are being held around a database on the platform. A firefield also oversees the local fire - fire business in order to ensure active fire - fire work in the whole country. The Agency ensures that fire departments are thus organized, equipped with equipment, and designed human beings who have enough education and training to carry out their roles and are able to handle tasks entrusted to them by fire management laws. It's even evaluated by fire departments, water squads, and firemen equipment. The fire - control school for firemen and firemen is the field operating. The field also operates with the rural community in the construction of burn prevention programmes, but the Agency agrees with it according to Article 13. a set of fireproofs. In Iceland, the electromechanical domain of the European Medicines Agency oversees electrical security measures, opinions on electrical activity, consumers, electrical security systems and electrical contractors, and the market control of electric cells. In addition to the law, the field of electrical contractors, the management of accidents and damages caused by electricity, and the publishing of electrical and educational materials involved in electrical security. The role of an electrical security field is to monitor the protection against the dangers and harms of electrical activations, consumers, electric prisoners, and interferences from their operating activities. The main tasks of electrical security areas are therefore as follows: the safety of electricians and consumers, the marketing surveillance of electric prisoners, the contract and interpretation of electrical security regulations, electrical security education, electrical contractors law, and the study and the registration of accidents and electrical damages. Mr. President. I've been tracking the main projects of the Agency. I don't understand what's behind the fact that the area I've been doing here and the Enforcement Agency has now been transferred to the Department of Social Affairs. I can't see that these issues have anything in common with the social affairs of children. If it is necessary to transfer this category from the Environment Ministry, it is normal to transfer it to a transport minister or industrial minister. When it comes to this category, it cannot be seen that a professional view is behind this suggestion, it must only be said at the moment. I believe that the Agency is here used as a exchange in the political corrosion of the government parties, a change in equalizing the level of power of the forward Party, the left green and the Independence Party, and I'm sorry. Under this article, you will write to the highest. A prime minister who has said that her government stresses good management. This performance is nothing but a good work ethic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u53	A respectable president. I think it's a good bill, and I think it's an abysmal introduction here by the highest level. Prime Minister. At least I'd like to let myself score to the highest. Prime Minister to cancel this lame, let me say, or at least a superficial change of the official name of the Social Affairs Minister. In the report, the argument is that the change in name, from the Ministry of Social Affairs, to the Ministry of Childhood, should reflect an increased emphasis on this category. I think there's a dead end to this. The official vow should not include the emphasis or emphasis of the minister on certain lawsuits. Is the next social minister supposed to be social and disability minister because he intends to highlight the issues of disabled people? The official vow should not reflect the priorities of a minister regarding individual components. Should the Secretary of Economics and Economics, because he's going to place so much emphasis on something in particular, to take up the vow of economic, financial, and personal probation? Or should the health - care minister be a health care minister if he was going to emphasize it in his office? I think there's a dead end here. I challenge the highest. Prime Minister not to participate in such random acts, I would like to say. Besides what a bad example this is. V.E.G. Prime Minister is a known professional in the Icelandic language; I challenge her not to do this, to cancel this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for measuring for the synonym. I think I like her very much. This is the second time since I visited a council I'm discussing the dissociation of counseling. The last time was the switch between the former D.C. Department of Transport and the Ministry of Justice. I was very much in favor of that change. For a long time, I felt that the Ministry of Internal Affairs was too extensive and that there was no specialization, especially in judicial matters and transportation matters. It was just too big a plate. I remember that many brought up the discussion, and I mentioned that the Ministry of Health might be more concerned with a division because of the large and large groups of paintings there and the amount of money they took. I can well buy them arguments, but it doesn't change the fact that there will always be a great deal of importance for ministers and employees in the plots to work very closely together, as in many places. I specifically mention it now because I think it's so important that we don't get carried away with the system. No matter how many assistants or government officials are, that's small. The big thing is, the people out there who pay taxes get the services they need. I recently attended a local financial conference that discussed gray areas in the service of my rural society, which is in a gray area, whether a member of the country or the State is assigned. It is also in gray areas, too, whether they live at the Ministry of Health, under health care, or in health matters or elsewhere. This is what I think is the big thing and what we need to keep in mind is all of our issues. I can mention subjects that are pleasing. Are they health issues? Is it a matter of disabled persons, hence living at home with their communities, or is it a matter of welfare? I guess they're all that. In this case, I think the big issue is that we need to get involved in explaining and ensuring that people will always be given the services they need regardless of what the Ministry of Justice will go down, whether it will be carried out in the council or in the other administrative capacity, the unit's level of government. Then I'd like to come in to the highest level. Prime Minister mentioned mobility. I'm not a spokesman for conservative forces when it comes to that class. You see, I think there may be quite a different focus on governments, following the emphasis of society at any given time, and the natural possibility of a project between ministers. That's why I found it interesting to hear the highest. One prime minister noted that many in Scandinavia did not need special legal adjustments, that they do not have to go before the Assembly. I think it's interesting to talk about. I also want to enter the important category of housing. I think we've been discussing that matter, the position of the housing market, the most since I started working at a council in special discussions and other matters. I am one of those who have pointed out that it is not easy to tell what the group of litigators is. I studied what it's like in the North countries, and I think it's very variable. Hv. A senator who spoke ahead of me pointed out that this group of litigators would be more at home in the Department of Transport and Division. I think it's common in many places, but I think it's also more popular in many places that it's under welfare or social services. I like the change, but I also want to reiterate in the matter, as in others, that there is a very close cooperation between counseling. The organization will still be under the Environment Ministry, which is very normal because the provision and use of land are huge environmental issues. Homekeeping is also in the Ministry of Industrial Services, where the human artisans, of course, will agree. It will continue to stay at home with many counselors and them, as with mental, long - suffering children, and others who need a service, we need to look at the matter in general regardless of what the Ministry would like to do. Like I say, I like the suggestion, and I'm looking forward to it. The Commission and the review board will tell you when it arrives in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u55	Mr. President. At present, a good deal of talk is about careful work habits and confidence in government practices. Is there a wide pot broken, as unfortunately too many examples prove. It has been a year and a half since the council discussed the dissociation of the Ministry of State. In many ways, that was a valuable discussion. I'd like to grab a little down the opinion of the 1st smaller part of the management and monitoring committee from that time, with the permission of the President: ▪ The first of my memories notes that since the economic collapse of the Ministry was too many and too small, there was a large change in the Council to strengthen it together by consulting. In addition, it was in the Council of Government legislation that more than one minister could appoint each Ministry. Onwards to quote that opinion: ▪ The first part of my life considers the lack of cost assessment or a new ship plan when it is proposed to indicate that the matter is primarily a means of balance between parties in the formation of the government. Thus, there is no clear material basis for making a decision and discussing a lack of professional ground that can be considered acceptable. The minority opinion should continue to be quoted: ▪ The first part of my study feels that the matter is unconvinced, for which there is no professional logic, the distribution of labor demands in councils instead of integrating and contributing to the responsible provision of public funds and strong advisers [...]. In this light, less than 1 memory cannot be of short duration. This will write the smaller part. In the memory of the section, there was one ooze. A senator then, homb. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, former and current minister, is the second minister in the arrangement discussed. I also want to give a fine witness. A senator who explained his vote in this way: The President of the United States. At the same time as I don't think this proposal is so well-designed, it's not based on any of the estimates made at the Council of the Council, the reformal proposals adopted by the General himself on how the administration should be arranged, especially after a collapse, I respect every government every time to set matters as they please. The government has the right to accept what she wants. Therefore, I do not comment on it, even though I had chosen to have been handled professionally, especially when it comes to power, the government is a member of a class that has had new and better, improved practice on a speedy floor. I won't vote. Whether or not. A senator is Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. I wondered, " How is it to the highest? ' The prime minister recommends a bill that seems to be more and less like all the same characteristics that were so critical of the time when the State Ministry of State was replaced. During this period of time, something has changed about the point of view. The senators then found out about the switch between schemers? I would have at least... they think that a more detailed article would be done to the need for this review, a detailed cost assessment of this matter, but not so. I see here in the chapter on the cost of talking about a joint service called it here, I think I'm quoting the right passus. Better be right about this. Let us see: The argument behind the counseling principle, etc. Then it comes here: However, the dissociation of the Ministry of Health is inevitable, leading to a mismanagement that involves increased cost of business. There's an increase in the number of Ministry Officers to form about one... And they continue to count. There is not a single attempt here to evaluate the cost. None. I'm asking, "How on earth can I get to the highest level? " Since no experiment is made to address the views that were so thoroughly tore at the same time as the rest of the Ministry, do prime ministers offer such an undefined suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u56	Mr. President. I stand up here to declare myself generally in accordance with this matter of Congress. The background of the two advisers, who were cut off to one of the departments of their time, is well explained. The history of the Ministry of Social Affairs extends back to the middle of the last century, and the Ministry of Health was set up in 1970. It is often considered when decisions are made as to how to direct compromises between advisers. Such evidence has appeared to have had a huge project, and in recent times it has been felt that they were far from being less useful than having two ministers on board. I'm gonna let myself say the same thing. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, who has disappeared from the hall, is in charge of the choice of hot counsel. I'm going to say that sometimes I've thought to have made a few suggestions on these topics, and I don't have to go further than to refer to the ministry's name, as it is now known, the Ministry of Health, which is not particularly modern, apart from the fact that it doesn't go well in the mouth. The Department of Health and Social Affairs is completely different. I'd also like to let myself agree with what you're saying. A senator when he urges a minister to keep the name of the Ministry simple. Third, I'd like to agree with what. A senator of the highest degree. Indeed, the prime minister has developed a word for much good taste in English. Become a member of the committee at the moment. I must say that I miss the suggestion that there is no more detailed report, but there is evidence of cost and self - analysis of the subject. According to this, I would like to reiterate and repeat what I said that I support the main policy being followed here, that this Ministry will be two, and that they will be delivered as two members of the Ministry as well as the next New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u57	V.E.G. President. I'd like to state that I like this suggestion very much. But for the sake of the word "woe." paritaprevir Ólafur Isenus Ísleifsson of Isun about the name of the Ministry - he does not speak clearly enough, so I'm drawing conclusions, and he has the chance to contradict what I'm saying now. I'd like to say that I feel that taking up the title of Social Affairs and Children's Ministry has a measure of perspective and boldness. So if what's being referred to is what I don't know fully, I can't agree with it. I'm on top of it. The prime minister in showing such initiative and boldness in the name of the Ministry, thus suggesting that we Icelanders would like to strengthen and support the United Nations Children's Convention, and we will likely do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u58	Mr. President. There is an ancient Latin proverb that says that taste cannot be divided. That's right, as a matter of course. paritaprevir This is what Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir says, and I had that in mind, when I spoke the words I made regarding the title of the Ministry. I can't be understood by anyone that I'm not stressing strongly that children's issues are being successfully treated in Iceland's Management Board. But it can only be any person who cares about these matters asking himself how well he can talk about child -- I don't know, now that some things are bad, but they get used to them, it may well be possible to get used to them. In general, I just want to reiterate the fact that hot strains and schemes are to be taken care of, and I'm going to deny that sometimes, especially in recent years, there's a pretty quick rush in running after some alleged facade of these things. One is that the names of the old advisers are fine. The Ministry of Social Affairs is an excellent name for the Ministry and has a long and dignified history in Icelandic society. The same is true of the Ministry of Health. There was a tendency, and perhaps still regarding the Ministry of Education, to hang behind all kinds of terms, etc. I will not say any more, but I will think again of the good men, the Romans.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. Councilmen here who have participated in the discussion. I'd like to review some of the points here. First, a comment was made that it did not follow the cost of food and actually discussed at the same time that there was a bill on the move. Of course, this is not a bill. It is a judicial decree. I must correct that. In general, these do not involve expensive food. That's why I took advantage of this opportunity in my speech, as a boy. Likely, members of the council listened, and they realized that the cost of replacement was estimated to be some 70 billion. However, it was noted that I would expect further expense, on the other hand, due to the transfer of equality to the Ministry of Presidency, where I intend to install an office of equality that has not been present in Social Affairs, the other because I think and the government believe we need to support the administration of these important classes, which are more than half the government's pay. There's an enormous amount of mail under which it's important that we be more supportive of the administrations. Then I'd like to mention the big business. Many things have flown through my mind here, and I know that I have been asked not to joke about my office as prime minister, but the temptation is too great now because I have at times kept the custom of calling myself the Minister according to the assignment I am doing at any given time. That's how I was named Minister of Education and Culture when I was serving it. But when I was doing the sport or research and science minister, I called myself a sports minister. Now I just call myself the chairman of the state in such a hurry. It's one thing how we talk about this in spoken language, we can say, informal language, but I must say, it's a long tradition for a social minister to name something other than a social minister alone. His name was Department of Social Affairs, Social Affairs and State Ministers, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. This proposal for the Ministry of Social Affairs shows the current political emphasis. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice mentioned. I know why. Councilmen who spoke here, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and doubtless Páll Magnússon too, emphasize this as well. But, of course, it's a matter of taste. We have a long tradition that the Minister's names often come up with certain political issues. This is extremely common in the North countries, for example in Denmark now that we have a social and child - welfare minister. But there are differences between governments. This is the arrangement I mentioned earlier, where the project has made quite free hands on how it takes its own business down, raises specific political subjects, wants to put up a living case, children out of the way. It's tradition there, and maybe it's a reflection. Of course, I also listen to the viewpoints that show that simplicity is always the best title. This is a discussion I expect to conduct within the Committee. Then I want to say it for a fine talk. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, who was only informative, I would say, and I would like to remind you that this move is, of course, the building principle that has been very much discussed around housing conventions. Of course, that's why the proposal for this move, i.e. that by transport of the Agency, you will also follow the relevant regulations. how to make room for it. It now flew through my mind as long as it could. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson discussed these matters, of course, the burning defenses involved many more departments. I thought of the Ministry of Public Defense, Justice and the Ministry of Health as well. Then maybe I'll come to the big case that so many people have. Councilmen have mentioned here the importance of counseling. There I would like to wholeheartedly agree with all of them. Councilmen who have said: We must have a requirement for this in the modern joint administration - now, it's just a vote, it's a pretty good thing. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Thank you for being a respectable president. I found this to be very good and a river to be settled. Of course, it's important that the Ministry cooperates well. I can review some examples of that. As a minister of education, I had to work with a health minister at that time because of the health benefits in schools, which, of course, are a huge premium, and it saves long - term health costs when we bring in the success of health as part of the daily high school work. Another example was that of cooperating with the Department of Social Affairs to ensure that those on unemployment will be able to attend high school without recovery. This is exactly what we're supposed to be doing all the time, with all the departments. Minister of Education and Minister of Creation, they need to work together. Prime Minister needs to be able to cooperate with everyone. Always. I know, as I told you earlier, there are often some unnecessary walls between plots. The Congress is to require that the Ministry work together as an anointed machine, and I don't think that matters completely whether there are two ministers in the same Ministry or not, but that is the mental attitude and attitude that we meet everywhere in the administration. Because this was the subject of an explanation and the opinion of members of the local council of the left movement, I would like to mention that I covered the cost of this in my speech, which was precisely criticized in the opinion of the committee referred to here. I'd also like to point out that there was a special growth in recruitment. That's not the case here. This is changing, not increasing the number of schemers. The reasons for this are as if I were primarily professional in the litigation groups, which are not only major in our spending frames, but also very important lawsuits that deserve my knowledge that we better care for them in the administration, support them better, and thus guarantee professional policies and perspectives for longer periods of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u60	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize a change in the law of the children's emissary. This office was established on January 1, 1995, by law No. 83/1994, of the Children's Agent. The proposals of this material have previously been proposed for several years, and I specifically mention suggestions on the present. paritaprevir Guðrún Helgadóttir, a author who was a great spokesman for children at the Council at the time. The primary role of an executive of children has been that governments, individuals, organizations, and other organizations of individuals and legal officials take full account of the rights, needs, and interests of children. In his work, an agent of the children shall provide suggestions and suggestions for improving the interests of children in all areas of society. Since 1994 these laws were passed, there have been no material adjustments in them. With the legal agreement of the United Nations on the rights of the child, of the children's covenant, the Icelandic government has committed itself to enforce the terms of the covenant in law, ruling regulations, and carrying out all its areas. There the office of an agent of children plays a vital role. The bill suggests that children's executives will be given increased assignments aimed at strengthening the position of children in Icelandic society and promoting the continuation of the baby's contract. The objective is that the office will be a powerful and active advocate of children in Icelandic society, even as it already is, and that it contributes to the implementation of government policies on child - rearing society. The main ingredient of the bill is four. First, it is suggested that the role of an agent of children be clearly established and emphasised on child rights, including children's rights. According to the United Nations Convention on Child Rights and Other International Conventions, which depend on child rights such as, for example, on the rights of children. United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. Second, an agent will be assigned to collect and share data and information on the circumstances and status of certain groups of children at one time, in cooperation with different parties. These data should provide the basis for a uniform and targeted policy in the affairs of children at all levels of administration, as agreed in the children's covenant. Third, it is suggested that an agent be appointed to have effective consultation with children and to have a group of children counseling, but such a group has been active at the office for years without a legal obligation. Finally, the children's covenant requires participation in decision - making decisions on all matters and consideration for their opinions. It is therefore suggested that there be a legal arrangement for routine planning on child care and development in the main areas of society and that the results of the Council will be presented to governments and participants, as well as members of the general council. If the bill is legal, it will affect the function of a child's agent with increased responsibilities and privileges. The Commission has estimated the cost of expected changes and is expected to be at a cost of 24 billion. K. each year for the next five years to meet the need for more people for new projects. In addition to the cost of a child council, additional status for the office, promotion of covering and tissue renewal is expected. These additional expenditures are expected in the budget and budget bill in 2019 C.E. A respectable president. I believe with this bill, the government will show that it takes seriously the commitments of the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. With the bill, the plan is to strengthen the status of children in Icelandic society by increasing their participation in community discussions and in all decision making and policy making in the affairs of children, especially through the development of a baby council. At the same time, the government will stress the cooperation of children's issues and young ones across the Ministry as we discussed the last issues in which cooperation against the Ministry must be very important to such a class. We're thinking about the Ministry of Health, Department of Social Affairs, Education and Culture, but also the Department of Environment, because of the State Department of State if we want to put children's issues on top of high priority, as we have already done with our work at the United Nations Human Rights Council. There is a need to better coordinate the activities of young people and their families in all areas of public service and to ensure the rights of this group. In accordance with this, the Court of Ministers and the European Union signed a declaration on September 7 of this year. to improve cooperation in the welfare of children. According to the declaration, the Ministry and localities will work together to break down walls that may be formed between systems when children need a complete and cooperative service. In addition to the above cohesion views within the Council, efforts are also made to promote an active transpiratory discussion and a child's solidarity through the cooperation of the head of the council with members and members of the Parliament. The board of directors, together with its members, has been set up by members of all Parliaments at the General Assembly, where forces will be united with the aim of strengthening and coordinated child - care services, ensuring that they are granted when necessary, making sure that they are continuous and noncommunicative. Emphasis will be placed on clear responsibilities, labor division, and the follow - up of service. The flight team, together with its members from the European Union, will cooperate with the Senate Committee. Her first meeting was October 9th. A respectable president. I think that this community would be much better if we listened more to children's viewpoints. This has been in my mind ever since I began reading the books of the God - given Goddesses Guðrún Helgadóttir, who spoke very highly to children of democracy and even wrote a book about Páll Vilhjálmsson's son, who set up an organization that had the goal of making the world a better place. As Páll Vilhjálmsson's son often put it when he saw news of terrible acts in distant lands: Look at this, this child would never have done. No doubt Páll had quite a bearing on this. You see, it is important to listen to children's viewpoints. I've been working on them ever since I was serving as an agent in the Board of Education for Reykjavík, and I've started with a child - and - youth experiment. When I became a minister of education and cultural culture, I had the opportunity to influence the main course of the program, base and high school, where democracy became one of the cornerstones of the study record. A wonderful project has been done at all these schools since then to promote a democracies between children and young people, teaching them to work in and learn about democracy by working in democracy. I am grateful that I have the opportunity to contribute to this new arrangement, a baby council, which I think will become a shorter in a discussion of children's affairs, but also to us, stewards, governments, and members of Congress, a tremendous opportunity for direct and intermediate communication. I can see that children from all over the country are going to be called by nomads, that schools around the country use the opportunity, and that they will use just what they have in the main course and the work they've been doing within it to set up a case on the program for this council. I think it was then of utmost importance that as older ones, we will be ready to listen when the time comes, that our priorities are to attend a baby's assembly when we get that opportunity. I'm pretty sure that increasing our discussions and conversations with children and young people have a positive effect on society, not just on the issues of children. They can teach us a lot of things. I also believe that it is important for a discussion of children and their status in the community to be regularly scheduled for the Generals and therefore have requested to make the General Assembly at the following article for a report made by the Children's Office for Prime Ministers. Then I suggest that I be called Prime Minister and Child Ministry. No, it was a joke too, just before. paritaprevir Ólafur Is Ísleifsson, but I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. and the Board of Education and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u61	A respectable president. Now it is our duty to serve according to the constitution and the conviction that comes with it, according to our convictions, our conscience, and our honesty. There's a lot of business involved in this. When I was working at a nursery in the old days, I got to know a lot of kids and their honesty. I've said it many times since then that in many ways I would trust them to be here in this room more than we who are here. There is much we can learn about honesty from children. As a result, because of the Synod, I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister to see if children are allowed to use this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u62	Mr. President. I often have much to say, but this question I do not know, neither do I hire the president of the council and the Council Presidency Committee. But I'll give the President this suggestion or idea, and I'm sure we'll discuss it if this room would be suitable. So there may be obstacles that stand in a way that I'm not aware of, since I don't have custody of this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u63	Mr. President. Thank you very much for this suggestion or for the highest degree. The prime minister is offering. I would like to have a prime minister explain to me and to others what this means exactly. I'm a spokesman for children's party of Pirata, and all members of Congress have their own spokesmen for the children. We have met with an agent of children and UNICEF, members of the United Nations organization who have the primary objective of observing the implementation of the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. I've been studying the rights of children, and particularly the rights of children for study, and I've noticed that there are so many things in the law and so many things about the rules that don't go beyond. We have a child - covenant, and it speaks of rights; we are in the United Nations Children's Convention about Child's Rights, and it speaks of learning rights. We've got school, elementary school, high school, etc. For middle school, I've been watching because my children are there. We have a regulation on the rights of children with special needs as high as possible. Prime Minister signed it as a minister of education. And righting is really good when you start looking at it in the system. I talked to this party, the Children's Agent and UNICEF, and then I talked to the V.G., an umbrella group that is looking at the rights of children with disability and all the other symptoms, ADHD etc., and helping people through the system. You always run into the same thing, you have to bring it in, i.e. This should be carried out. Children's rights, at least for study, are well set up in the main course and all the other rights I was referring to, but this is missing. One thing that was very clear to all of these sources was the need for some kind of policy that combines it. [[The president calls.]] What is the significance of this global policy on the induction process?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for this important observation. The change in this bill, if it becomes legal, is that the Children's agent receives a legal role that is to improve the child's interests, as mentioned in the proposal, and to protect the interests, needs, and rights of children, including those of children. According to the United Nations Convention on Child Rights and Other International Conventions, as detailed in this law. Then you will find more articles, including the following. Section 3. where a f-joint reads: We're 2nd. three new characters will be added, as follows: g. collect and share data and information on the paediatric situation and the status of certain paediatric groups in cooperation with different parties. This is an enormous law, I believe, even though I may have been most concerned about the Syndicate because it is close to my heart. But this is an enormous law of importance, for then we are, in effect, hiding this central view of the evidence that needs to be available so that different departments can base their policy on evidence. Then this point continues: ▪ These data should provide a basis for a consistent and targeted policy on child-friendly paediatric affairs at all levels of administration in accordance with the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. The central vision to be made to ensure that the children's covenant is underlying when attending educational, health, social and social policies, etc. It also states that the U.S. United Nations Convention on Child Rights and the Rights of Children should be promoted by an agent of children. There is, of course, work on it, e.g. in the school system and on the part of UNICEF, and there comes this legal role for an agent, that he should ensure that all children are informed of these rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the bill and the talk I agree with her, I think the matter is very important, and as one of the members of the Synod Children, I celebrate the bill and the opportunity to discuss it further. I think it would be good for all of us to discuss more of the children's affairs at council and put on children's glasses, as do those who are children's spokesmen, the Children's Subcommittee, the UNICEF and the child's goods, when we discuss various primes and issues, as we talk about fair visions. I'm celebrating the bill, expecting the committee to do some serious research and to call for reviews about it. I'm not going to talk to you about whether the bill is perfect in everything or if something needs to be improved, but the ideologies are very good. I find the idea of a baby council quite interesting. I have to say, I think it's a question, too. paritaprevir The case of the children's ability to use this hall is of particular interest to Björn's Gunnarsson. In view of the fact that I'm sitting in bed. I believe that there is good reason to discuss it as well as the possibility that we will open this beautiful house and the important organization more important to the public. I have had the opportunity to visit many council members on my travels as a senator and to walk through the hall and see how things are working, but here we have had the tradition that the Hall of Congress is generally shut down, that people may only stand in private rooms and look into the chamber. I think we'd better open up just a little bit more of the activity taking place here and that it would be the children who would be given the opportunity to do so at a child's assembly, in case it's convenient. In this context, I would like to discuss what we did a little bit during our last council, the election participation of young people, and whether the election age should be moved down, especially in the case of local administration. We spent a considerable amount of time discussing it, and all of us agree that we want to promote an election and participate in young people. I think it's a very good way to do that, because it's so important to promote a democracies. After a long time in the countryside, I know that few meetings were as interesting as when we had a meeting with the local Youth Council. It often presented quite interesting comments and viewpoints that we as older ones would not have thought of except through the help of young people. I'd like to thank you very much for your bill. I think it'll be interesting to get it out of the barn. I'd also like to encourage us as advocates of children's spokesmen to handle the bill specifically and to review the issues discussed on the Children's Council, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u66	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the product charge of vehicles, fuels, automobile bills, and credit laws. The bill suggests changes to the criteria of stress taxes on vehicles. To a degree, taxes and charges are placed on the owner of a vehicle relative to the registered carbon dioxide emissions of the vehicle. This is true in case of a tax price from vehicles, automobile bills, and worth taxation thators of a foreign vehicle have enjoyed. The objective of the bill is to trust the basis for taxation of vehicles and to ensure its harmony as far as possible. In view of changes observed in assay methods, including CO2 emissions of vehicles are desirable to make changes in the tax calculators and pay which take into account documented carbon dioxide emissions. The carbon dioxide release referred to in the contexts of the above layers is registered by the Association Laboratory in accordance with the rules of traffic law. The registered emissions are based on information presented in a so-called agreement certificate submitted by an importer driver. Such proof comes with each vehicle. In 2017/2020, a new standard is being adopted for assessment of pollution, emissions, and fuel use by vehicles. The bill identifies him as the consistent test method. So far, emissions data have provided that a principle is based on the methodology of the older standard, the European Driving Period. As of September 1, 2018, all new vehicles marketed in the EEA will receive the prescribed carbon dioxide release, according to the agreed test method and on the European driving cycle. The release data will be provided in the above case by WLTP marked on vehicle conformity certificate but NEDC in the case of older position. During this time, there will also be significant changes in the amount of emissions reported on the European drive cycle. NEDC values will be based, not on an earlier methodology assessment, but only on the consistent test method. However, they will be calculated to correspond best with the results of the European road cycle. The consistent test method takes into account a number of additional vehicles that the European driving system does not. Because of this, there is still a risk that a significant difference could be made in the product charge of comparable vehicles equipped with different equipment. The difference is associated with the increase in carbon dioxide emissions induced by the device. To prevent conflicting with taxation equipment, two changes need to be made: 1st Depending on the likely price of documented emissions data from road vehicles from a new method of assessing pollution, emissions, and fuel waste, a heavy taxation of vehicles is needed. 2. An arrangement must be established to place a product on immigrants and drivers in ten currency, replacing linear taxation, so to speak, i.e. taxation per gram per mile of registered carbon dioxide emissions Golf automobiles have worn 30% cash for some time, regardless of what kind of power machines they've run out of. The government aims to put Iceland into the use of renewable energy sources in all areas and in accordance with government policies to promote energy exchange is suggested that golf vehicles will be completely free of charge if they are powered by electrical engines. If the proposal is accepted, such vehicles will be treated in the same way as, for example. Electric motor vehicles and motorbikes walking behind a power engine. A principle to the current product charge of vehicles, fuels, etc. The policy is that vehicles that are normally used only in business are to be given the terms of the price. In view of policy measures, there are two suggestions in the bill. On the one hand it is suggested that only commercial vehicles equipped with no passenger seats or fixes for them in cargo space and/or transport space fall under the exceptions of section 2 of section 4. The law. The transport trucks equipped with passenger seates or fixtures for them in cargo space will therefore carry a product tax compared with documented carbon dioxide emissions, not a fixed 13% product charge. However, it is suggested that the product charge of vehicles mainly intended for freight transport to a total weight of 5 tons or more, not to be registered under traffic law, carry a fixed product tax of 13%. In view of the limitations that have taken place during the day, this is a refinement. To trust the State Fund's interests in the light of the park because of a vehicle for a particular purpose, it is suggested that the state's funds be legalized in automobiles until it is clear that the conditions of the injury were held. For a detailed explanation of the subject of the bill, see its report. For a more detailed explanation, I refer to what appears there. I hope that the bill will be reimbursed at the General Assembly, which is the presupervisability for the buyers and salesmen of automobiles. Finally, I suggest that the case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee for the 1st. Over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the publication of books in Icelandic. It is a real breakthrough for Icelandic books. During the days, we present measures aimed at strengthening the English language's position for the future. One of the most important features has to do with the heart of many people here in the hall, in Icelandic books, and in the reading of the people. A book that is one of the most important features of Icelandic culture is its value for the development of the language undisputed. Learning skills are the key to our quality of life and our books the basis of ongoing education. I want to speak for a bill that will assign a turning point for the benefit of readers, writers, and others who want to know the most about English. The bill, written in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, that had agreed with the Ministry of Education and Culture, is suggested to establish a system allowing the reimbursement of 25% due to publication in Icelandic to meet certain conditions. It is planned to protect about 400 million. K. By next year. That way was chosen beyond previous ideas on how to extract valuable tax on books because it is more efficient and efficient. A financial and economic group evaluated the available benefits, and their conclusion was that the remuneration route would be better to achieve the goal of promoting Icelandic books. An example for such a supportive approach may include: find in temporary support for films and audio recordings that have given us a great deal to do. Therefore, the main objective of the bill is to support and promote Icelandic editions because of the cultural importance of a publication for the development of the Icelandic language. Icelandic is our national language, and public language and government should ensure that it can be used in all areas of national life. In the United States, colporteurs have gathered together to study a well - held publication of the local library in about 40% in the last ten years. This has certainly been true in the case of Icelandic writers and bookmakers. The reasons are primarily the result of changing social development, rapid technological development, and other social change. The introduction of various entertainments, increasing the availability of literature, and the video on the Internet against low or no remuneration, clever devices, or other media has led to a significant reduction in the reading of books in Icelandic. This development presents a real challenge to the language of a small nation. In particular, it is on the shoulders of the Icelandic publishers of the United States to respond to their changed circumstances and to develop their version, to be more familiar with today's audience. This procedure is designed to encourage more editions of printed and/or electronic media, thus increasing the availability of a wide range of materials for Icelandic readers. That's absolutely basic. To improve the locks, all age groups, especially young ones, need to be able to draw out interesting and varied literature in English. Support by this dimension will increase the size of the Icelandic publication and provide a positive chain reaction for its members. This action marks a turning point for Icelandic and Icelandic books. We're going to build a lock in the country. This is one of the key measures involved in strengthening the publication of books in Icelandic languages. Support is encouraged to write books in Icelandic without further details on the type of books except the contents of 2 mg. Section 5. This helps to keep the language alive, put new ideas in English, and promote reading in the Icelandic language. Other criteria specified in Article 5. The bill depends on the requirements of a publisher and on the minimum amount of remuneration. So that it is maintained, the definitions of the bill reach a wide range of terms, including comic books. Therefore, the fans of Tinna, Svalog Valur and Lukku-Láki Link can take their breath easy, because they fellows also fall under the bill. According to the bill, a request for reimbursement should be received to a special three-management committee at the latest nine months after publication of a book evaluating whether reimbursement criteria are met. The request should follow up with the necessary data that highlight the cost of a book along with the data provided, such as a disintegrated book on the cost involved. If the budget is more than 12 million, the cost will also be confirmed by an accountant, an accountant's accountant, an accountant's accountant's account, or approved books. As a result, a decision is made to reimburse the amount based on the amount of cost. The Commission's decision to support a publication published in Icelandic, according to 8 is suggested. ... isbe lenient to the Ministry of Education and Culture. Then a committee decision on what is considered a reimburseable cost and whether sufficient data is due to costs is required to the head tax committee. A respectable president. The bill suggests that the publication of Icelandic books will take place from the beginning of 2019 and will be revised by December 31, 2020. The cut-off period is in accordance with the state strategies rules of the EEA Convention. Actual adjustments made in the bill, directly supported by books published in Icelandic, include new financial expenses. Based on annual accounts and company tax returns in publishing, it can be estimated that the cost of state funds due to support will be between 300 and 400 million. K. For 25% reimbursement. Based on the data of Iceland's Habitat on the management of enterprises registered in publishing, tax returns information from the state tax manager and annual accounts of the largest bookmakers. The cost of supporting the publication of a publication in Icelandic to post applications could be some, especially at the beginning of 2019. Support such as this will increase the scope of the Icelandic publication and have a positive chain reaction for its members I am convinced myself that this action has been designed to increase the availability, variety, and sales of Icelandic books for the future. The benefits of consumers are expected to include the potential reduction in books and variety of selections, including on electronic media Both are designed to encourage reading in Icelandic, thus supporting Icelandic language and culture, which contributes to an increase in prosperity for the general public. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u68	Mr. President. It is suggested that an impulse system be established for the bookmakers. This would include providing temporary support in the form of reimbursement, such as the highest. Secretary of education has gone over. I'm wondering if it's the highest. The Minister of Education has bet on the right horse. If the goal is to promote increased reading, especially children and adolescents, it would not be closer to the authors directly, i.e. without the publisher's intermediate? It could stimulate the author's performance more than through a publisher.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council asked and wondered if we are taking the right step in strengthening the country's read. I certainly think it's because if we look at the scope of support, it's about 17% of the money in a book market, in a publication. It is such an injection into the sector that, of course, it will also be relevant to writers, without which there will be no books. We are doing similar things in filmmaking in the country and in the audio recording, as shown in my history. This form has proved to be very effective. It was also time for us to take action in such a way. We are first, and last book people, and it has been tragic to look forward to the development of a new era, how meditation has been reduced. Of course, we stress that everything we do results. I am convinced that this operation, in this way, will.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u70	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of education answers. As we considered, the estimated cost is 300◯400 billion. K. For 25% reimbursement. So I reiterated that the minister used the expression's probably an up - to - date raise, so I reiterate myself to the question of whether it was closer to authors to stimulate them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u71	A respectable president. I reiterate that the support of Iceland's book culture is considerable. I'd like to mention over 2 billion bucks. Go to library and filing, fund and destiny. We're gonna put over 100 million. K. The collection of writers. If we look at some of the funds that are used by writers, it is some 280 billion. K. There is total support for literature and literature in Iceland around 2.5 billion. We're working hard. I completely agree with what goes by. A senator, of course, is obliged to care for all in the process, but I believe that by the operation we will reach them as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u72	Mr. President. It is a good goal to try to preserve our tongue and thus strengthen your reading of the Bible. It is strange, in my opinion, that there has not been a way of dropping a worthy tax as originally promised for elections, especially when compared with other items that get a merit taxation factor, e.g. Sports. It has been said that the person who does not read books has nothing beyond the one who cannot read books, so that all efforts to increase reading and access to books are good. True, honorary taxation may have the positive effect of covering books in languages other than English, so while I agree to keep Icelandic, people can also benefit from reading in the language they want to read. It's a question: Is this 10% decrease that can be enough to change access to books? That may be my question to the highest. Minister, if there are any other measures to consider in an effort to increase access to books in this context, e.g. starting the scan and publication on the Internet from the national literary cultural element. The bill's report says that the bill was not put in a consultation course according to the government's agreed agreement on the preparation and release of a management project and its administration, but it is permitted to be removed if there are special or other valid reasons. I'd like to know if the matter is urgent that this process had to be avoided or if other valid reasons I'm unaware of were behind it. You see, it is very important that such a matter be addressed in a natural way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The major objective of this action is to support a publication in Iceland because of the cultural importance of the written language. I just agree with what. A senator that it is also important to read books in other languages, but measures in that country aim to support their own publication. So I think it's most reasonable to put my arms around the Icelandic plague now. I'm on the verge that the case is urgent. It is totally unacceptable, in my opinion, to watch the tremendous contractions that have been occurring since 2008. I have strong conviction that great, good, and deep reading understanding mean the quality of life that a person has and an opportunity, and especially when we are entering a massive technological change and technology revolution. We need individuals who are not just locks but who are able to read for themselves; who have already read so that they can search and criticize text. We're not just talking about a general lock, we're about to deepen it. For the request related to the cost tax, we took a closer look at the matter, what would be more targeted and more efficient to promote a publication in Iceland, and we reached this conclusion. I'm very proud of it. The key point is how we achieve this goal, not where it is going. So I'm made as a politician that if I see something that might be better off in order to reach that goal, I'll go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u74	Mr. President. I can agree with many of these things. Regarding the urgency of this situation - of course, all members of Congress and councilmen feel very urgent. It is in nature. But we're talking about a recession that's been going on since 2008. Waiting for a few more weeks while a normal system of consultation may not be a factor in the outcome for the bookmakers. Of course, we're supposed to support Icelandic and support Icelandic editions, but I'd be interested in trying to reduce the cost of books in general, that's an important point. Regarding the execution of the Memorial, it says that the Law will gain value on January 1, 2018, and a review will be made by December 31, 2023. The question is, Is the thought that the law will fail from the value of 1923, or what is the normal continuation of this process?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u75	A respectable president. We're just as a government putting great emphasis on how we can apply it. This is one part of it, i.e. to support more fully the publication of the New World Translation. We also recommend support for the private media. Also, we have fully financed a language project that is of enormous importance, how we should live in a digital world. I'll then introduce a 22 - team eulogy proposal, which also aims to promote Icelandic growth. We are about to reimburse the seminar and ten measures aimed at promoting education with special emphasis on Icelandic. In my opinion, surgery is required at this point in order to obtain values as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u76	Mr. President. Icelandic is a heart matter for all of us and therefore should be delighted to promote English by means of advice and action. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Minister on the expected effects from the bill. This is shown in section 3 of the report, showing a projection of evolution in the publication that it is highly intertwined, by 40.5%, as it shows. I wondered what it is that has caused them to narrow down. Is that worth books or other factors? Other factors are discussed in the report, modified community development, technology development, and the like, and therefore I wondered if a minister has deep conviction that the price of books was critical. What evidence is there that books fall short? What does that have to do with you? Then, in view of the impact of chapter 6, the aim is to support the publication and should be able to allow readers to reduce the price of books to a minimum of 10% or otherwise. What I find hard to understand is where the evidence is that this arrangement will promote a publication and increase reading. I want it so much that it works out and it happens. I support goals in my own life, but I do not have a deep conviction that this will do or be the way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for to swerve and his approach to the matter. First, I want to say that it's clear that reimbursement will encourage more printing and/or electronic media. We watch for pictures that our young people, young ones, are bitterly complaining about their lack of books for them. I attended an earlier seminary in Hague High, which was the main reason why we started a new category of support because we focused on books for children and young people. Second, because of our financial motivation by reimbursement, the availability and variety of Icelandic readers are likely to increase. One thing we have heard is that there has been a contract between supply and diversity. We believe this is a very good attempt to increase the offer. Third, such support allows greater scope for multiplicity and, in my opinion, will result in a positive chain reaction. At the time of the diversity, the response to the demand of different groups is better, which I believe will increase the interest of reading, e.g. as we look at our young people. I have deep conviction that this is at least A very honest attempt to increase and deepen reading in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u78	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. There is another factor that I would like to mention that is the cost of change. According to an impact assessment, based on the number of annual bills and tax returns in the publication, the cost of a government budget may be estimated from 300 to400 million. I don't doubt that it's all true and true, but I would like to ask: Is it relative to the current version, so to speak, or is considerable increase expected? That's all I understand in a case of the highest order. Ministers but that it calculates a much larger version on the basis of the change. The question is, Is that a much higher form of publication? Second, consider the financial and financial budget of the coming year to meet costs, which would be at least 300 million, but at the height of optimism. A minister I hope to be justified could be a considerably higher figure? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u79	A respectable president. To answer a question, why? A senator is in line with his current well - being. It would be very good if the operation would stimulate and increase the publication of a book in the country, as we hope. So I think that we are, not only with that operation, but with more action, to draw a line in the sand to say: This trend is not desirable. We're a book nation. All our legacy, culture, comes from there. I think it's very important that we do this the way we're doing it. If there is a marked increase in publication, dealing with a positive problem is a positive one. Then we will see that the operation is truly effective. We'll deal with it, okay? A senator, when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u80	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the publication of books from the Education and Culture Ministry. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Minister to congratulations on this point and contributions from this bill. This is a positive, good step we take here. But as the bill shows, in view of its importance in protecting Icelandic and expanded locks, the goal of the law is to increase the publication of books in Icelandic languages. To achieve that goal, it is expected that some of the costs may be reimbursed in publishing books. I think there's a really important point in all of this. It is important for us as a nation to promote the English language and to strengthen the Icelandic edition. In support of this matter, I would like to read from a letter - the program received a letter - a statement by the U.S. Board of Books, by permission of Presidents: ▪ The Institute for Education and Culture Ministers, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, for support of publication, includes important reports for Icelandic literature. This confirms the will of a secretary and government to resist the contractions that has become the sale of Icelandic books over the years and to increase national reading. The problem of the publication is thoroughly to be torn up and offered a solution likely to be of benefit to those in one way or another from the publication of Icelandic books. The bill is based on experience with the same arrangement for Icelandic films and music. It can refer to the report made in 2015 by the Institute for Economics of the University of Iceland on the positive economic effects of a reimbursement program on filmmaking in Iceland. Moviemakers can also testify to the value of the reimbursement arrangement that has had on those who work in this article. The management board of Icelandic bookmakers believes that a positive effect will also be comparable to that of those who work in the publishing field. This is a joy for those who are employed in the publication of the Icelandic books as well as for readers who need a wide range of dynamic editions the year around them. The Government confirms the cultural importance of a publication, including the culture and protection of the Icelandic language. We likely feel that the procedure is designed to result in good results, the people of England, and the language. Acceptance at a hearing on October 3, 2018. This is what I here read to support and thank you for this declaration of support. How important it is that we greatly increase the scope of the Icelandic edition! In this context, we should be able to increase reading in Icelandic languages and to increase the reading of young people. I think it's really important to us. We need to get involved. This will reduce the number of projects involved in the field and the work being done. Once again, I'd like to wish the highest. Minister to congratulate you on this day.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u81	Mr. President. We'll talk here in 1st. bill number one. Education Minister on legal support to Icelandic publication. I have no doubt that the goal of the bill is good and noble. I support the government with all my mind in the efforts and procedures it considers proper to respond to the situation that has come up with, i.e. I'm not questioning, as one puts it, that the conditions of a publication in Iceland are not the best. However, I'm going to allow myself to have specific warnings about the route that has gone - not because of the objective of the bill; I think it's good that we all look for ways to support the Icelandic language and book edition in Iceland, and as a result, reading young people in particular - and saying that it can certainly not be a principle in the State's activities that the State is involved in the loss of certain employment. Not at all. It must be particularly sound reasoning and clear content to justify the intervention of the government, as is done in this case, by passing out certain business expenses. It is not just bookmakers who are in trouble. I think that anywhere you go in your modern business, you can find an example - argue that certain activities taken out of parentheses might be welcome by the state. We see this in many parts of the world today, whether in tourism, food industry, or international competition. It's failing in many places. So, in my opinion, it is true that we specifically discuss this: What is it about the bookmakers who are so special? I am aware that in current legislation the state is with various interventions in business or employment matters. That's in the film industry. The suggestions are given here for the loss of the media activity that will be discussed here at the General Assembly. It is also true that the state itself has a variety of functions that are difficult to establish with reasonable reasons that a real need is needed. The question is, Can governments do anything to ease the balance of employment or of this particular business? The answer, of course, is yes. The general and wise way is to approach the matter in general in all laws; for all shall be equal to the law. The state should avoid the longest laws between sectores. However, there is a need to make sure that a source of valuable employment, or any type of work, is clear, general, and unswerving words, burdensome regulations, or particularly burdensome pressures or taxes. If we go that way, it would benefit not only the bookmakers but all the work in the country to make up a reduction in insurance or company tax, or tax on individuals - now, or with a general reduction in the value of a tax. It would benefit everyone, and we will achieve the goals that are set out for the bookmakers for all other jobs. I mention this here because I simply ask: Is it so that this is the last time in this room that it is suggested because of a great need and a noble goal, that the state should step into and put down certain tax-employment jobs? Is this the last case that will be discussed at the Council? No, I don't think so, far away. How, then, will we deal with the next job that calls on the government's door and says: "It would be very good to receive a government disgrace on the basis of a certain cost of business? In other words, we are opening up here a very bad example that must be difficult to wind off. Then I come to another part of the bill that's interesting. As I said before, I don't doubt the bookmakers are in trouble. According to Article 1. In the bill, the aim is to provide temporary support in the form of reimbursement. What's the time frame? 12th degree. published by Jehovah's Witnesses. It's all good and good. But I say, once a point like this has been entered into the law, it is easier than done to cancel the support. At what point will the bookmakers come to the State and say: Thank you, our position is so much that we don't need government subsidies? Is there anyone in this room who can imagine that this is how it will take place? No, I don't think that's ever gonna happen, either in this case or in any other case, when the state has at least a subsidies on a set cost. That's why I'm paying attention to this. It is a question, in this effort to support the bookmakers, whether it is appropriate to reflect on, and to consider it in terms of the council, to schedule the recording for four or five years, and it will need a positive intervention on the part of the Lawgiver if it is needed to extend support. Only on the decision to do this: I wholeheartedly agree with the highest level of agreement. Ministers that since there is a willingness to go this way -- I don't doubt that the matter will have a course here at the council and have nothing to do with setting up because of the noble objective to be set; I'm very determined that the bookmakers are doing well -- it's right to choose this way instead of making entitles to form on the merit tax system or something like that. The purpose, how to do so, lies ahead; efforts are made to frame the cost and how to reimburse it. Earlier in this discussion, it was suggested that this is not the only way to support Icelandic language or to promote the reading of Icelandic youths. There's no need to overemphasize this route, to produce certain results. There are other forces at work in the community - rapid technological change, education status, and so forth - that will raise larger questions that need to be answered. For example, why do young boys lock their doors so much older than girls, what is happening in our educational system, etc.? In this, I believe the state has the real capacity to influence and change things for the better. It is true what was said in the case of the highest. The minister to the children's books is a special field on which the State is fully authorized to apply himself. In fact, the question arises: Should it start with giving support to books published especially on children's books? That could be a goal in itself. This is a point to consider and examine especially if we want to control the problem of not having enough of a children's book published in the United States. Is it possible to raise them something special? Other ways have also been discussed in the discussion. Of course, there is something else the State can do, i.e. looking at the arts' specific arrangements. Is there reason to make writers higher than they are, that in this arrangement writers are especially strengthened, supported? You can also give specific support to writers who write material for children. That's what I think I'm gonna be looking at. Mr. President. I'm not going to go into the bill anymore. This discussion was designed to address general views that should be considered in situations where there is an unusual route that is really not the State's nuclear activity; warn that this default, although it is done in this case, that the State is involved in certain occupations. It is by no means necessarily true when the next group of people in the business knocks on the door and assumes that they lean and want tax support.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u82	A respectable president. I'm not going to have a long talk this time. The bill will go to a committee, it will work there, and this will be a review process. We will hear the viewpoint of some of the people involved and should not be overreached until then. I'd like to mention, though, that maybe. it would have been better to agree with writers. It is stated in a paper that communicated with publishers and the tax authorities, not writers. We expect to hear writers'viewpoint when it comes to the subject. Besides, I don't have to have many words about the situation we are responding to, which is a smaller reading, including young people, and as is true in general. There are several factors that have been tore up, including Here of the highest. Ministers and those who have brought up the discussion. There are new media, new technologies, and less time people can spend with a book. This is a danger to Icelandic culture and Icelandic self - image. If we stop feeling in lyrics, there is a threat of some kind of cultural breach that could happen, and you may even see signs of national confusion that a certain cultural breach is taking place. As to the support of the publication of books in Icelandic, I am determined that this committee of three men will be organized by a minister of finance and Ministers, who is responsible for industrial and innovation, and then Ministers of Education and Guardians will then be appointed in the same manner. That may be nice, but I'd like to mention that these are the political fears. We have many examples of this, in the recent history of the Icelandic Republic, that political groups used such positions, such as positions, to employ political, tottools, and even to use such positions as those used for slaves - without me making shoes that it exists. I wondered, " Is it possible to have this arrangement in a way that ensures that people with good knowledge of publication and literature are included in this committee? ' But I'd like to say in general about this case that I think it's national, and I need a case. I'm on this one. It's a long story. For years, worth tax deduction was under way, and it was considered a procedure to deal with the emergency problems the publication has had. When the battle started, one step would be done at that time in 17◯20%, the writers and the bookmakers returned together in their struggle for release from the publication, which would have been followed by a very increased curse on this delicate business. This is no longer the case. There is no longer one step left in the Ministry of finance, and it changes the situation. In 2015 the lower steps increased from 7% to 11%. At that time, however, the Library Fund was strengthened, as was the prize fund for writers. These funds were growing, and they were thought of as some sort of objection to them. I agree with what has been presented in this discussion, about the need to increase the salary of writers, so that authors can fulfill their role in making their careers a success and setting themselves up properly and becoming writers - you always have to write some bad books before writing the masterpiece. It is also necessary to consider their role in ensuring the minimal security of older writers. There's been a mistake. For years, sales are down, and the situation has only gotten worse. Now it is such a time for decommissioning a valuable tax on its own to solve the problem. The job conditions of the book edition are bad. Support to Iceland's publication has been smaller than you think it's possible. When we discuss this, we must not forget that the small language areas worldwide are under attack. Even the Northern languages are spoken of as a small language in this context, millions of languages. French is spoken of as a language field that will not be brought under attack in an environment in which English is the control of people. What, then, can be said about the language spoken by a national chalet? It can hardly be called a small nation, we are national censil, 350,000 people speaking this little language, and they also have obligations to the world, to mankind, and to future generations, to preserve this language, and to preserve the literature that exists in this language. The problem is that it's gone crazy. I have to admit that I'm split when it comes to this case because in my life I've been both a writer and an employee of a book code. I tend to look at it, so I try to reconcile my viewpoint within myself. Sometimes I think like a writer, and I think about what I have as a writer, and sometimes I think like a bookkeeper, thinking about what's left of this story, and that my business has decent business conditions. But I think this is supposed to work out together. Here's a good question. paritaprevir Þorgrímur's Sigmundsson, he asked something about whether publishers were just unnecessary middlemen, if money could not be taken, and if only the authors had it directly, it wouldn't have to be passed through the book editions that would be unnecessary. I think there's some misunderstanding in that question. There is much more to it than the publication of a book. Everything depends on the writer, that the writer writes his work and his own stories and poetry and everything. Nevertheless, bookmaking is a special trade, a special industry. There is a special expertise in the publication of the book in the country that cannot be expected of a writer. One writer has a lot to remember what the characters of 500 pages of the Bible contain. A novel's name and the way it all connects, he needs to think about it. He cannot necessarily have his mind on the market and on the coat and on all the small events that need to be done in connection with a publication. This is business. It's a lot of people who are working on it, and it's a matter of recreation for a lot of people. Here, too, there is a great knowledge of how to make books. There's a minimum of one million by reimbursement. You have seen questions as to whether to reduce that amount, e.g. have noted various factors as to whether this could lead to less writing, that the publishers do not publish poetry books because it costs less than a million to publish poetry books. Others have mentioned children's books in this regard. In that case, it takes more than one million to publish a book of poetry if it is done in a book code and done by reading the book over and by testing, by its metabolism, by scraping, and by taking care of the book. That's over a million dollars. That objection is not relevant in this regard. Writers, authors of me and writers, usually ask, "Is there any reason to fear that they have a keen share in this relationship? " They also wonder if the cost to consumers is due. We certainly need to keep an eye on this. Yet, I see no reason to think otherwise. And authors also wonder what this reimbursement of the authors'expense team will do to their own authors. There is also something else that we may need to keep our eyes on. However, authors have an interest in the fact that the publication in this country is not very difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The diva of Thorsson Thorson for the support of the bill. Few in here know better than what. A senator and I love his input and support very much. I'd like to mention two things he came in on, one about a conversation with writers. Conversations that took place with the bookmakers were first and last technically in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. But I agree with what. A senator, it's always better to call more people to the table, and we had a press conference at the Education and Culture Ministry for writers where they could make comments and questions, and of course they can enter the process when it is considered in the General Education and Education Committee. But I agree with what. Senator, it's all important. With regard to the committee, it is quite clear that she will be a professional candidate. It is the exact same arrangement that includes the committee that values reimbursement for movie producers. I just want to say in this council hall that there's no other way to think of the Minister here. This is exactly the same arrangement that it has proved to be. Of course, we will be careful to do the most professional thing in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u84	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that a conversation with a writer has taken place. I expect writers also to appear before the committee I hold and to hear their viewpoint. I look forward to it. As for the board and the way it's made up, I have no doubt at all. Ministers will appoint it professionally. I only mentioned it because we have the story. While it may sound amazing, that day will come to the highest. A minister will be replaced by some other minister, and then another minister, and still another minister. No matter what the time frame may be, I have reason to believe that this arrangement will be a people for quite some time, and there may be a moral hazard to a blundering politician.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u85	A respectable president. I think it's very important that we look into this. This is the same arrangement that we have had on reimbursement about movie producers. It may be amazing that some people will take over, but it should be borne in mind that we want to have such fences that we are always the most professional. It's very important that we get a line in the sand now. Of course, it is wish that we will see the increase and diversity in the publication. I just feel that there's a man's mind that it's that kind of an operation. It's a lot to do if we turn to the roll that's around 2.4 billion. This may be 17% of her, so there are many opportunities. I feel that this bill is in favor of the people, if you don't mind me saying it like that. I have received very good and helpful comments. It is urgent that the matter be addressed and that we have further consideration. Then I hope that the objective will be met, and this will result in a fall that we will see more diversity and will be able to build up the locks and strengthen the Icelandic language.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u86	A respectable president. I'm not gonna have many words. At the top. Ministers agree on these matters. In itself, there is nothing that I make an answer to. Rather, I agree that we are at a critical point, but we may always stand at milestones in preserving our culture and our identity. It's a constant project, so it never ends. But especially now, there are indications.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u87	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of education for moving in on the case. Of course, it's in the government contract, if we call it that, in fact, it's moved and landed. It's respectable. We'll talk in favor of a book proposal. We heard of the pleasure among the bookmakers about it, and something else was strange. It says, however, that there are men willing to handle it, as they say. The purpose of the bill is to meet a deteriorating book sale, and of course there are many reasons for it. I'm not going to extend my case by decoupling them and trying to distinguish them very intelligently but to deny that now it is a direct financial aid to the presupergence to reduce the cost of publishing. In a paper with the bill, it's about the C team 6. ... withauthority of the President's permission: For the authors to be paid for the publication of a book published by a book publisher, it is available in the c-participant to pay remuneration costs. These are the fees of a book publisher to the author who falls into publication of a book until the day of the reception of an application for reimbursement costs. Bonelin is encouraged to some extent to reduce the cost of paying due to authors' salary. It would be strange if it did not return in any way to authors, it's open to it. I'd like to speak in person as a writer because I've had a lot of experience. I've been publishing more than 50 books, both books, if we can call it so, and fine literature. I've worked with six curses, most of the big ones that have ever existed here--I think there's more, in fact, if I count all the things -- and run a spell with Ragnar Th. Photographer's Sigurðsson's son and published a number of books like that. I'm not bragging, I'm only trying to say that I have that experience and she tells me that the step being taken might be very useful. In other words, it should strengthen the production of books and thus hope to, or expect, that sales will increase as well as read. Of course, it's just an experiment, at least As far as I'm concerned. We haven't figured out the right solution, but it's a good try. I don't think there's any bulletproof solution to increase reading and buying books, but I hope so, and so do I. However, I would like to come to the comment, perhaps to some extent, that book prices are too high in figures. I do not speak of books that are being sold to foreigners, although they are not Icelandic, since book prices are usually on a whole different scale in most lands. It is taken away from a worthy tax, the centenarian is simply very high. Whether it's a fabrication somewhere during the process, let's say to the book sale itself, these are small expeditors, high printing costs, etc., I'm not going to make any claims, but book prices I think went up over the average period of the years. I said it was an experiment, but I think there's always other ways to be found and test them if she doesn't make it. Madam President. I'd only like to discuss the stock of writers, for they've been quite the advance of the discussion, and to raise a question. What I'm going to say is the facts I think are the best ones in a discussion over a head, whether this bill or about literature in Iceland, and they touch ideal writers. They are like this, as perhaps everyone knows, that every sold copy is paid. It is the foundation of a weightier's price, the entire retail for a seller. It is customary that a significant discount is given there if the sellers sell many copies and negotiate. These are mainly meat camps, markets, and other versatile camps, and it is often very peculiar for humans to stress literature right before Christmas, but let it be. Because of that price, author usually receives 23%, which is a very high percentage compared to many other countries. It can be a discount for making books at high costs, as well as a number of factors that fit into production. This will raise the book price, but percentages of the authors are dropping. Then, in Iceland, much of the government's commission is strangely sold, i.e. The colporteur takes so many copies, sells what he can, and then goes back the rest. This is not like erasers and pencils at bookstores or other products at reused stores but as embezzlers leading to authors' resolution in the early summer of the year after the calendar year. 2017 is completed in June 2018. Some call it interest - free loans to publishers. I don't mean to evaluate it, but it's a very peculiar business policy. Let's take a look at some numbers and go to the magic unit, 1,000 of them sold. For example, if it is a small book of 4,000, it may be a small 2,000 - year - old, if it is a small book. I'll take some money. If you use the percentages, you will see that the author's share is about 500 pieces. for the lower number and around 1,000 bucks. for the higher number. If we multiply it with 1,000 copies, the author gets between 500,000 and 1 million. K. in pay for possibly many months of work, perhaps years. In some cases, the laws of nature are much larger, a larger portion is sold, and the higher the salary, but there are also some examples of good books having lower sales numbers, where the amounts are even lower. The picture must be light to all who discuss it, not just the portion of the book publisher or the colporteur or anything, but the spiritual milk that is so important to the whole process, the writers themselves. It points so to elected writers over their pockets, how to increase the share of authors in book sales, in literature over their heads, how to increase the reward for writing. I'm not gonna come up with any ideas. I simply think there is a very important discussion that needs to be conducted, although it is not related to the field of finishing this particular bill. I say that I have a very positive attitude toward the bill and hope that it will go down smooth. I'd like to say something for a reason. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson must end up saying that the direct support of the state's culture is well - known. It is similar, of course, that cultural activity is not an ordinary business, as discussed here, that it would be like running an electric repair business. It is only a very small business. If this were a regular business, we would not have a multi-starly national theater or a large international band that occasionally fills Harpa, which is also a subversive phenomenon, so will it. We wouldn't even have Icelandic scholars from college, who wouldn't be overdone. For decades, discussions about questionable government contributions or government support for cultural activities have been heard and become increasingly peculiar as the principal segment of government and traditional culture is applied to a blessed international culture. I'll wrap it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u88	A respectable president. I want to thank you for your support. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and his approach to the matter. Like what? paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson knows him very well for publishing both as a writer and as a publisher. Of course, in this hall it is important to us how they approach and appreciate it. I want to thank you very much for that. I'd also like to mention that one of the reasons we're asking for this is that we're sending out a clear message to the community, saying, "A publication, our culture, is of great importance to us who are in Congress. " We're sending a clear message about the development that has taken place, that we don't want it. We want a community with a version, a variety of versions of books, whether in print, electronic, or audio books. We think it's good for society. We are that kind of people. We've been hundreds of years. This is our culture. We came from there. We are the people who have kept their noses on writing the history of the northern countries. Our contribution to the literature is enormous. We're supposed to be proud of it. So I don't think that we're going to take that step, not only for publishing but also for the media, language, and other measures aimed at supporting Icelandic languages.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u89	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I agree with everything the Minister said. A certain way, whether we take the vase as we can call it, dropping a merit tax on books, or this way, or if we have support for any of the interests in there, I can't say that this is necessarily a better way than anyone else. I think of it as an experiment. Such support is vital in some form, but it is also very important to make a quick evaluation after one year, two years, three years. I'm not afraid this will be an eternal thing, that though the state will take it to heart forever, it will be so. I want to reiterate, and it happened too. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, who, when hearing the demands of action at the committee's office, has been presented to the table because they have not been as cheerful as publishers and are glad to hear what they have on their heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u90	A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier in one of my answers, we had a very good conversation with writers shortly after the bill observed the day. I think it's very important to listen to their comments, but I'm sure that if we look at quality numbers, it's a lot of injections. I believe this is such an operation that it will benefit both parties well. A respectable president. I'd like to mention one of the important things that are so important that we see that our children's understanding has deteriorated in international comparison since 2000. I find it a little difficult to believe when I see all the intense and powerful work that is being done at different schools. I think it's actually bigger than in international surveys. However, it cannot be overlooked, so the procedure aims to increase and stimulate an interest in reading. No matter what we are doing, reading is important to all of us. I also think that in view of social and technological changes, it is even more important for people to be able to criticize what they have in front of them, whether they are electronically or whatever they are. Deep reading understanding is very important in promoting the democratic community in which we live.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u91	Madam President. I'm not a writer or a book publisher, but we're all very close. So, as in the past, we stay on our personal notes, I've been teaching youths and young people English for 20 years. So I welcome all ways, all the action that encourages reading and supporting the publication. How important it is that all of us, adults, have good knowledge of reading, and not just for our benefit but also for our enjoyment! However, adult readers do not come to their senses. They begin young readers. All encouragements to book editions are good. We need children's books, especially young books that appeal to as many people as possible. There is a tendency to think that young people 16◯25 years of age are a uniform group. This is a very diverse group, and we need a variety of literature for that group. In the classroom, I have seen that in many cases the vocabulary of young people is very relaxed, and in my 20 years of training, he has suffered a severe deterioration. I once put together a list of words that I thought were in general use and that were active words in our vocabulary all but that my students, 16 years of age and older, did not know. It's a striking list. The vocabulary of the original text is so much richer than the vocabulary of spoken language. That's why it's so important. We have heard an ever greater talk among our students at the walk of high school. Then students who are born and raised in Iceland speak with Icelandic parents and have no contact with English language other than the community in which they live. That is why it is so important that our young people have sufficient literature. This applies equally to the group I also teach, youths from foreign lands who are learning English. The wording they use in their daily life, which is primarily the ostensibly of food and when I should go to sleep and so on, is in poor condition. That vocabulary is growing so much if the kids read it. Such easy - reading books are often too naive for youths. We must not forget that there is also an adult who wants to receive sizable literature designed for adults but, at the same time, with a vocabulary that is designed to teach and expand the vocabulary of the speakers. The Icelandic teacher I'm celebrating a very professional bill. Lula Alfreðsdóttir's daughter's educational and cultural Lilja.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u92	V.E.G. President. Here are Icelandic teachers in rows like bookmakers and writers earlier. I'm an Icelandic teacher in the foundation, even though I don't do it right now. On the other hand, I would like to agree with the clear message that the Minister of Education has repeatedly joined in a public talk about this bill: We are a book people. That's what we're going to hear. It is the self - image we have. However, this self - image is being undermined by the fact that books are too expensive, their price is too high, and there are other media in which people pick up. We can, however, be a book people, even though we are not reading paper. We can read from the computer or the iPad or listen to books. I am fortunate to have been raised by reading a book. I remember the good times I had with my mother as we sat together and read and had a pleasant moment. I think that one of the things that needs to be delivered is how much time we can have with our children when we read or listen together to literature or literature and then discuss it. That's exactly how it helps to develop speech. Like what? paritaprevir In the Ingibjörg, Þórðardóttir Thordddddóttir may have a poor vocabulary. To strengthen him, we need to talk and read more. It is a upbringing of both parents and the school system. Being a book people, having the culture that has followed us through the centuries, is what we have been proud of. When we visit other countries and examine their cultural background, we examine churches, palaces, paintings. One reason why the Icelanders did not do the arts until then was that we lacked material and we did not build palaces because we could not afford it, but we could write on the calfskin and we could make ink. That's where the man's need for creation is expressed. At times, the environment allows us to choose the form. We are in an environment other than the calfskin or the paper, now we have the Internet, with the computers. There's nothing later. I have seen that when a parent said to a youth, " Stop hanging on the computer and start reading something. ' There is the misunderstanding that only one form of culture can be taken. We're supposed to admit and celebrate if the case is alive, whether it's on paper or on our computer. Above all, the matter must be lived in conversation and conversation. That's very important. Regarding our young people speaking in foreign languages, a changed world is faced with internationalization. We should not speak down but present our unique status as a nation. We're supposed to be proud of it. I have been accustomed to giving a witness to the poet who said: "But any nation of the world has rejected its tongue, and all the more so. " We need to inculcate it in our young ones as soon as they have access to other languages. It does not have to refuse to keep the Icelandic language and keep it for a later time, but we would prefer not, even though we may have been beyond the insult hundreds of years, so that the future will experience that our literature is closed and that special scholars need to read what we have in literature. I think of Gaelic, who is a very beautiful language and is a national wick, like a second. A senator spoke of earlier, who had that language and wants to preserve it. This is our experiment, so we don't get that process about the language. I think it's totally worth it. Regarding what is offered, I cannot help but say that the choice of literature for children and teenagers is just as limited today as it has been in recent years and has not been as ambitious in writing books for children and adolescents. I'm going to point out, however, that there are plenty of literature that can be drawn out. Now I look into the writer who wrote my happy anguish at the time, huh? paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, and I remember when I was reading it what I agreed to do in many ways. It is also important that we harmonize with what we are reading in some way. Of course, we also learn and become acquainted with new ones, even though we do not share what we read. I support this bill, and I hope it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u93	A respectable president. I'm going to thank the highest. Ministers of Education, cultures and books for performing this bill. I could talk about books a long time. They've been following me since I can remember. I started reading so young that I was pulled into school before I was old, since I wanted to read more books there. I can't remember any more than checking books. I've read them forever, I've written them, translated them, read them into audio books. I don't go to sleep but to mention in at least one book, and often when I wake up, I stretch out in the same book if it was exciting enough. These are my maidens, I'm afraid to some extent, books are my life. There's something amazing about the things, some symbol on a surface that you can look at, that's why you can tear and chew, open, smell, and there's a whole world I can't get out of other media even though I'm really into them too. That is why in many respects I may be incompetent in this discussion. I don't know, but I'm still going to give it up, a respectable president, because I think it's extremely important that we publish books. To me, it's important that we write books, support people who write books. It is important that we publish books and do everything within our power so that we can produce as much books as possible. I feel that it is important that we read books and do what is necessary and within our power to increase our reading of books. But I also feel that it is important that we publish books that are not particularly read. It was refreshing to hear the pure, clear, liberal talk coming into the book talk earlier. At times, it is good to remind ourselves that there are a lot of differences in the way these halls are affected. It's all good and good. People can have a different view of things than me, I often have wrong opinions about things, but not in this case. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'd like to be stated, Mr. Honorable President, the magical world of the books is such that I'm not going to subject myself to the possibility of being wrong there. This is not some product on the market from all sources of culture, self - image, language, and I want to tell everyone about our existence. It cannot be followed in the same rules as we would like to have absolute values in others, whether it is a hot dog or a hot dog sale. I support everything that promotes a book version in Iceland. I will also support everything and consider whether more is needed, as it were at the highest. A minister has talked about, to promote a reading, to support authors, to further Icelandic. V.E.G. A minister made a good point of considering that there are certain procedures to be taken to do so, and that is well done, for that is to be done. I'm not gonna have any more of my words. The sooner I stop talking, the sooner we stop and I get home to read a book. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u94	Madam President. I kind of feel like I'm in the middle of the race... of who is the most loyal sponsor of the bill. I can declare at the beginning of my speech that I will lose that contest. I find this very interesting and agrees with many of the main goals that have been said, i.e. that it is extremely important for us to support our culture actively. There is much that the traditional market law does not necessarily apply in this context. We support handsomely in theaters and symphonys, as we have noted, and many cultural events that would no doubt only bear themselves with official support. It is also of utmost importance in the case of the highest order. Secretary of education, to help improve reading, more powerful reading ability for children, adolescents, and adults, to protect the Icelandic language. We all agree on this, and we all agree on our heritage, for we certainly are a book nation. It's also a little interesting to wonder about the other side of the matter. I think everyone in the hall agrees that there's a huge change in water. The fourth industrial and technological revolution, as we choose to call it, is to pour on us, and we all talk about the many opportunities in it - and challenges - for us as a community. It also includes opportunities and challenges for many other business projects. The case is in my mind so growing that we are making an attempt to maintain a possible form of the written language that is facing a very severe blow because of the same technological revolution. We've been going through one of those dramatic revolutions before. We wrote on the calfskin for nothing so long ago. Then came the printing technique, and eventually someone thought of wiping out, we could tell the mansions, using digital technology to set them up and print, and it could continue to be counted. It all wiped out some industry of the time. Without a doubt, we could have stepped into that development at the time by subsiding calf skins, subsiding a writer's salary when Gutenberg came along, and so on. I don't think it would have changed anything about the development of the book that became with them technological revolutions. I think this case is exactly the same area burned. I'm convinced that the fourth industrial and technological revolution is not a threat to the written language at all. I think we and our kids read more today, too, in Icelandic, but we did before, for example. media such as Facebook and other electronic media came into play. I'm not necessarily convinced that it is a special threat that the book is changing its shapes again and that it may become electronically, which I find overwhelmingly unlikely, no more of paper production, except in exceptional circumstances. Of course, we have seen the degree of well - being mentioned, including the one mentioned above. in the bill's report. There's been a great decrease, a huge drop in books, and a lot of books have died, if we can say so. We print, for example. no more phone files. Travel manuals, I think, may be along the lines of one hand, which were once very common books. We pick it up more and remind us of everything on the Internet today. A man had a number of maps, another example, something that we simply pick up on our phone today. That's the way you keep counting. I think the inevitable thing is that we'll read the book on phones, iPads, or whatever digital technology we'll be carrying in five, ten, or fifteen years. I think the decision to subsidize a version of 400 million. K. 500 million. K. each year, and although we would increase it further, much will not change the publication of paper form in general. This brings back to mind what is important, and careful written material, the writers themselves, is a source of inspiration and support for writers to produce material. If you look at other articles that are under attack in the technological revolution that we are going through, you can name a music version. Music publishers in this country are not exactly disappearing, but their survival has deteriorated dramatically. Even musicians are so presumptuous that they simply ignore musicians and give material directly and directly onto the Internet, often with very good results. There are all kinds of music hosts that sell us access or subscriptions to music instead of buying individual albums. I think the conclusion is that listening to music has grown dramatically. I listen much more to music and to a variety of music, all kinds of music, but I did before because the access has greatly improved. I think, after all, all the technological changes that the book itself, from calfskin and forward, has gone through the process of increasing its availability, made it easier for us to approach written languages. The technological revolution that we are going through today is a vivid example of the exact same as likely a scale we have not experienced before, except perhaps when we left the calf's skin to Gutenberg. I believe that the decision to subsidize the government will not necessarily change the publication itself. This article, however, is in the middle of a transition process and needs a new course to be found. In fact, I tried to gloat the influence of the fourth industrial revolution on publication, and I didn't really find any conclusion, since books did not get underfoot on the influence of the fourth industrial revolution. That's a different story. It's a technical development that I think we'll find very simple to attend a written language. Granted, it changes the form it is presented to, but it does not need to be a threat. On the contrary, this is a wonderful opportunity, especially for those who are writing, the writers themselves. To that, I also say, if we just lower the horizon on that particular point: Here's a business problem. There is no doubt that the State will turn it over to writers. I have seen much stronger evidence that that that support will not do so, i.e. that he'll rather disappear in a pit. Even such support may not bring a lower price to consumers. I'm pretty sure he won't. In recent years, this article has been very narrow, and most likely it is that the state plan or government support that this will simply turn into the article itself. There is no indication that evolution will simply continue unless a book version begins to move more into the electronic form, but Icelandic readers have just been criticized for having been late to react to the technological development of developing it quietly, electronically. That's where I think the problem is. In the long run, if we're going to stimulate the writing of books, I think that much closer to supporting the support would be to the writers, a competitive collection of writings, to support artists, no matter how close we want to approach them. I repeat, I am not a special fan of state's approval of any profession. When it comes to culture and language, I think it's highly preconceivable, but let's do it in a way that's useful. I'm pretty sure that history's judgment on the matter will be that it did not change any created thing about the development that is inevitable in that area.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the deposit but would like to make comments about it. I don't know why. A senator saw the scope of the bill. Not only are we here talking about a printed book but we are also speaking of a book, an electronic book, the entire edition of the written language, which is part of the book's definition. If he is concerned that we are merely discussing a printed book on the bill. Just think of the future and other forms of production. I think that's what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson has done quite a thorough study of the purpose and role of the book edition, how important it is. That is why we do this, as we did in film making. I am convinced that the emphasis on supporting Icelandic languages and reviewing the position of reading is already taking place. There is a stimulus in this market. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator needs to realize that, as I mentioned earlier, the numbers of young people have deteriorated. I want us to be in the first place among the nations in this regard. You can't be in the position I'm in without taking a look at how we can strengthen our education system. I think this is one part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u96	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of education the Anti-Second. That's right, I had noticed that the support is certainly directed to the possible electronic version of books. I wondered about them, and that's more technical detail, if I as a writer were to publish my book myself how I would be defined in a pro class, would I be a publisher or a writer? But that's not the main thing. I repeat what I said earlier that in this context I'm more concerned about whether that path works over my head. I am convinced that this is a business that needs much more than the government's tremendous support. I do not worry about the future of the written matter, but it is quite clear that as has happened many times before, the shape of change is very much. It may well be that we simply have to accept that the ability to put our book on the nightstands is a thing of the past, except when we buy some antique literature. This does not mean that it is not written enough; it will be written in another form. This is part of the inevitable development that we see all around us. Guð will help us if we are to run up to our hands and feet and go to subsidies with all the sectors that will be hit or have to go through a great transformation in the revolution that we are in the middle of. That is why I think it would be wiser if we wanted to stimulate the publication of a good Icelandic subject to support the writing directly, not necessarily the publishing work itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u97	A respectable president. The point is, we see an amazing recession in a book sale and roll. We're talking about 40% in the last ten years. I have strong conviction that unless we arrive at it in the way we are doing, we will not live under the name of a book nation, whether printed material is printed, in electronic form or in a book. The evidence suggests that evolution cannot be overlooked. We see in a very remarkable study carried out by Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson and Sigríður Sigurjónsdóttir, who was introduced on October 4 at Iceland's Teacher Association, on the paint and language development of Icelandic children, that there has been a significant change in speech and language development of children raised with smart tools. They'll consider it differently. I think there's evidence that if we want to keep our case, we need to take action, which we sure are doing. I'm not saying that we have to fear English or worry too much, so I agree. A senator that enables us to write much in Icelandic and our children to do so through technology. However, I don't think it will be a substitute for a carefully designed book. If we continue to sell books, we lose certain traditions and cultures. I believe we are pushing and supporting the culture that we value and have yielded to the success we have achieved as a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u98	Madam President. I'm not sure that I and the highest. A minister of education would disagree about the change that is becoming, or about the enormous importance of reading, such as the highest. A minister rightly pointed out. How, though, do we deal with this in the great transformations that are taking place? How do we approach material? How will we approach such material as this? with technology such as language technology? We will likely listen much more to material than to read it in advance, i.e. Our phones, our computers will read to us. How, then, do we deal with the transformation and protection of a tiny language? I emphasize in my case that the printed page is a single channel of writing, but it is not the only one, and the development of technology indicates that the written matter is going into a completely different direction. Therefore, I and I firmly believe that we will simply have to accept that change and look more closely to the way we will secure the existence of Icelandic and accurate written language in the international world in which we live, that it is not necessarily in the printed book. I think it would be wise, and to make sure that such a version was actually being strengthened, to direct it directly to the writers themselves rather than to publishers. That's the essence of my speech. We've seen similar developments before. If we take a look at the root of the matter, it is in the person who brings the written matter into some form, wherever it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u99	A respectable president. I'm not afraid to start counting it. I'm not going to argue with a senator, but I'd like to make a few comments. First of all, about the calfskin, which was called by others. Icelandic farmers could not afford to slaughter calves to be writing, they never imagined it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Perhaps it was just Bjartur í Sumarhús Houses that did so because he hated cows. It was paper that was most widely written in here for centuries. We have an eel of cheap paper manuscripts, and thus we lived through the centuries, both orally and in paper manuscripts. I felt that by creating literature and creating written languages, I had a certain lack of knowledge that is present in the book edition. I felt that the writer was in some void and could communicate directly with the readers with his product. True, we do, and we have had very good authors who have done such things, which have been published over the years, but more is involved. It's also a misunderstanding, like the highest. A minister entered, not being able to expand a new version in new media. I would like to mention in particular that the state has a work, the sound library, which is in direct competition with traditional books for publishing its stories in sound form. That may be something we need to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u100	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm certainly not going to beat the writer on how books are published. I think he knows it better than I know myself. I think it's simply an interesting subject. If we are going to support the English language and the English language - which can give us sound reasons to believe that we need to do so, that is a tiny language, and that we need to bring it up well - where can we get the best results? Are we going to support the design of the material, so I mean that someone sits down and writes beautiful lyrics, supports the person, or is we going to find out which company is the best way to promote the subject somehow? I would personally be more inclined to support the writer than the publisher. I think it will always find its way into the form that the users themselves prefer to support. I can totally agree that it is desirable to see more material in the audio books. No doubt it will eventually return to them. I very much miss not seeing much more of Icelandic books in digital form compared with all the access you have to foreign literature. Technology has already reached the point where we no longer have to wait for a book to come to a bookstore, let alone get us mail from a book publisher. Most books have simply become available in digital form. I think that evolution will continue, and that's why I'm rolling it up. I don't find it odd to see the problem that the bookmakers themselves are in in in that transformation process, but I have a pretty good conviction that this support will not change much of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u101	A respectable president. That's right. That's right. A senator with the new digital technology. In fact, this trend is complete, and there are plenty of books in it. In case of a moment. A senator will find the right places, and he will be able to read a lot of books on his device. Nevertheless, the book, the cover book, as material things, is still alive. There are still thousands of people who buy books, both for Christmas and for the gift of friends and family members, as well as for themselves to read and enjoy, as well. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé described so beautifully earlier. Many people share it with what they want. A senator, who likes to have literature in that way, believes that there is another experience and other experience in reading text, nice text, or ugly text, or just text, on paper, between cards and screens. People even want to have a moment without a screen, wanting an hour - a - hour life - style. We can try to meet that group. Only when it comes to music food. A senator takes advantage, and so do I. The contribution of artists to the money that falls into the music industry is ignominiously low. You can't really talk about him. I do not wish Icelandic writers to have the destiny of experiencing something similar to that of musicians living with foreign musicians.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u102	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's interesting talk, it's very interesting. To take that point as dog. A senator concluded that music providers have made significant changes in the payment of the published material for musicians. Even world-famous musicians have been completely altered, previously living the relevant artists off record, but now they survive a concert. I don't know if it means that writers will survive the reading in the future, I won't quite tell you about it, but it's clear that a lot of things are going to change in that. You're right. A senator said, and I'm not going to pretend so full of sense and seeing that the book is going to be a complete death, I don't think it is. I think the book will continue to be a gift and that there will still be a number of individuals who want the book in their hands, but there will probably be fewer than they have been. Let us look at another outstanding development in the music when the wine plate died, or as good as, some three decades ago, and new technologies appeared. That technology, in fact, has disappeared, and the wine plate has returned, certainly in much less culture than has previously been known. This is the way it's developed, we never see it, but it's the kind of force that eventually leads. We can throw stones into the stream, but it may not change much of the riverbed. I think that's the way it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u103	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 181, No. 178. It contains a bill to correct a change in law No. 66/1998, about veterinary surgeons and health care in animals. It's a bill written in the Department of Professional Road and Development. The bill means 6. The law has been changed so that from an indiscriminate demand for the authority of veterinary surgeons in public service in the Icelandic language. Rather, it would be proper to accept such a requirement if such knowledge is deemed necessary in a job. The reason for this change is especially the opinion of the U.S. Marshal No. 9510/2017. The agent's inspection was directed, including: to see if the Agency is in accordance with law on the activities of the Food Agency that the Agency employs the surveillance of veterinary surgeons, who are not in charge of the Icelandic language. An agent concluded that this was not in harmony with 5 mg. Section 6. The law. In the opinion of an agent, the legal requirements of the law No. 105/2014, of the free employment and home-to-house labour people within the European Economic Area. According to Article 1. The law has the regulations of the Council and the Council No. 492/2011, of the free movement of the hired persons within the Union, as modified by the EEA Convention's regulations, in this country's legal requirements. In 1st. Section 3. The Regulation stated that the regulations in the laws and administrations of Member States should not apply in situations where they limit applications and oers to jobs or rights of foreign citizens to start and do jobs or to set conditions other than those that apply to their own citizens. This is not relevant, however, in cases where language skills are relevant because of the nature of the work being done. Based on the authority's opinion, the Regulation may have meaning on the rights of veterinary surgeons who do not have power in Icelandic language to operate here in the country in public service if there is a job where knowledge is not important because of the nature of the work. It also ensures that the Food Organization can perform its legal surveillance work where the situation has established that human positions in agreement with earlier conditions have not been possible. For this reason, it is important to get the Agency's work into place and to eliminate the conditions for power in the Icelandic language, but rather give the authority to make that claim if necessary. The bill was conducted seeking information, including If you are a surgeon, please refer to the health care provider's requirements as required by the health care professional. 34/2012, for healthcare professionals and regulations in this setting. Neither the laws mentioned above nor regulations require that healthcare professionals have power in the Icelandic language, but for this reason Article 4. Section 5. track No. 34/2012. During the administration of a foreign health care provider, surgeons will then evaluate whether the procedure should be performed, e.g. the need for English knowledge. Does this mean that there is a greater legal requirement for veterinary surgeons in public service than for example? Doctors who work at the Hospital. It is proposed that, following the legal adjustment taken into consideration in this bill, the Regulation shall set out in a further Regulation the requirements of Icelandic expertise in foreign animal physicians, but it is absolutely necessary to place the activities of the Food Agency in legitimate terms and to vacate the requirements for power in the Icelandic language to the Agency to include, for example, the Agency. has the power to employ foreign veterinary surgeons temporarily as a result of slaughtering without breaking the law. The bill was opened with an open discussion of the Board of Management Board on August 24, to September 2, 2018, and there were all five reviews. The reviews generally countered the proposed change and emphasized the importance of veterinary authority in the English language where needed. A certain misunderstanding seemed to be a part of the evidence that if there were a further change in the law, the Food Institute would not be restricted to law No. 61/2011, about the condition of the Icelandic language, or the general opinion of the administrative rights to use the Agency's clients in their business dealings with the Agency. However, if this bill remains unchanged in the law, the Food Institute will be based on the above laws No. 61/2011. Furthermore, the proposal presented in the bill is comparable to the proposed proposal in a report by a staff on a review of animal diseases and veterinary surgeons from October 2017, which is recommended for an expert on the official skills of veterinarians in those jobs where it is not absolutely needed. It may be noted that the report was widely accepted and consisted of the representatives of the Directorates of the Professional and Development Ministry, Iceland's Farm Group, Iceland's Animal Medical Association, and Food Organization. As we have considered, according to the current law, veterinary surgeons working in public service have authority in the Icelandic language. From the above, it cannot be changed without the sentence of the law. This law would make sure that the Food Organization could carry out its legal surveillance role, as well as the commitments established by the European Economic Areas. The consequences of the approved bill must include the public and administration of the State for the better, where it must be ensured that the Food Organization can perform its legal monitoring role for e.g. the first generation, processing and marketing of agricultural products. A respectable president. I've traced the main points of this bill, and I want to refer in other respects to the series of articles that follow, which contains a detailed discussion on its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u104	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for an excellent review of this interesting matter, where the law and setting of the working environment of veterinary surgeons are being changed at the recommendation of the General Agent. As we know, there are a number of foreign people who help us in our community and who contribute well, many talented people working in nursing, caring, and curing the human family. There has been no specific requirement for this information. On the other hand, we have done this with veterinary surgeons who make one person think differently - the Icelandic sheep, the crown of creation. This may have mattered to dogs and cats, but it may be a different story. How has the knowledge of this person been evaluated up to this point? Are there special people who have taken care of this factor and who follow up on it? Then I wondered when language was important. In what situations can it be said that a person needs to be in control of the Icelandic language so as to be able to employ veterinarians or animal doctors? It's a question I'd like to cast to the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. With yesterday's excellent discussion about the status of sheep sheep, one could have concluded that the crown of creation understood all the languages of the world, such was the light of some members of Congress. The situation here lies ahead, as the senator rightly could about, a certain source that comes to mind. of the conclusion that the Food Organization has also made comments. It does not directly meet legal requirements for monitoring, especially during haystacktime, animal doctors of foreign berries that are not measured in Icelandic language. When asked what situation the Icelandic - speaking person needs to face, it is somewhat difficult to see. It would be best for some research where there are objective measures that the language does not matter, if it is more and less just mathematics or formulas. Of course, there are circumstances that call for this in service to those who hold domestic animals, pets, where in some cases it is simply absolutely necessary that the minister speak the language that is understood by the domestic animals. We will seek a model for health care in what way this is being brought into the Regulation and supported by it, but I think the big line is simply that it will be placed in the Food Institute every time that we appreciate the need and capacity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. It is a very positive step if we increase our chances of getting well - qualified people to serve here who can support our work here and work with our professionals. The natural person here knows that there are highly qualified people from a foreign background who have decided to settle down here and do these jobs. I think this is just a positive step, such as no more questions to the Minister than thank him for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u107	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the presentation of the bill available here. As we work in this sector, we know what this is like today, that we have foreign veterinarians working here, and I don't have a plan to put it into practice. They do their work very well. I wondered if there was anything in the matter of thinking about the need to report medical records. Most people can jump out of English, but it'll be pretty tricky when the reports are in Spanish or Romanian. I thought about it and I would like to ask a minister if there were any comments that will be sent to understand and then I mean Icelandic or English. We have received these reports in Romanian, Spanish, and some other languages as well. Sadly, they just don't tell us anything at all. I'm not putting out the employees as such, they're really good at what they do, but the messages they send to us need to get back.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I couldn't help it here, unless it was mentioned in the background, that it's a project that the Food Institute, the Town Organization, the Animal Medical Association, and the Ministry of Education and Development have been in charge and have been in mind. Discuss how this information can continue. It is true that such basic data would have to be somehow that the person to whom it is to be used is enabled to understand the contents of the text. Of course, we have to make sure that the knots are separated. I don't know all the processes in the best way of making it, but, very much, we have to strive for basic information that everything involved in the health of the animals gets to the right and clearly to the responsible ones in caring for the same sheep.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u109	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend the discussion much, but I thought it would be necessary for some other Council members of the Northeast to address this important matter, entitled 'Dyrasian' and Health Care' for an animal. I just wanted to say that I'm very into the bill. Nevertheless, I'm sorry that we had to be especially pointed to this in the opinion of the emissary of the Generals. It is important that we keep this in mind in further matters. I wanted to use this opportunity especially to show that in our multi-cultural society we want to be, it has also been suggested that in many parts of the administrative sector, there is not only a requirement for knowledge of Icelandic skills, which is often very desirable, but also in the job advertisements a requirement to know other nationalities. When people come here from other cultures with a different language and have worked hard to learn Icelandic, they are working very hard to speak Danish, Norwegian, or Swedish too. I just wanted to put it right here and direct it to the highest level. Minister and ours here in this room that we keep in mind that we are developing into a multicultural community. Of course, we should welcome those who want to come and work and do not make demands that are not necessarily needed in all cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u110	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 182, No. 179. It is a bill for the legal adjustment of horses'export laws, No. 27/2011, with subsequent changes. The bill is written at the Department of Professional Road and Development. The bill means that a price for each exported horse goes up from a hundred thousand dollars [1,500 C.E.]. of 3,500 K. Then the fee is changed to the point that instead of taking care of the town organization, the body is a collector of the state's funds for it. The reason for this change is from Iceland's Farm Group to the Department of Employment and Development, where it was requested to increase the cost of the remuneration. In November 2015, the Ministry first received a request for a raise in pay, following the conclusion of a horse - breeder Fég of horses. The National Farm Association of Iceland points out that growing income will strengthen the fund to deal with the projects he is designed to support. The price will go into a government fund that provides the stock fund of the Icelandic horsekind with a contribution in accordance with the income of the fee. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. 1123/2015, as directed by the National Institute of Racing, is in charge of Iceland's Farm Group responsible for its accounts and yielding in agreement with the National Advisor Board. The sea provides the strength to develop and research projects that will contribute to the maintenance of valuables in the Icelandic horse strain, protection of the genetic polymorphism of the strain, and increase knowledge of the source and spread of it. Advertisement in horse production following applications each year, making a decision on the granting and management of Iceland's Farmer Association confirms distribution is supported by the proposal of the Council. In 2017, a total of 2,229,000 times were covered by the stock protection fund for the export of horses. If the price went up to 3500 bucks. Why the exported horse for the export of 2017, a total of 1,486 horses, would raise the income and grow to over 5 billion. K. In a year, like a croak. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé is absolutely aware. It seems proper that income and expenses for the fund will be reassigned to funds and that the government fund will care for the fee and will be suggested in terms of Article 6. The law, that Iceland's Farm Group will care for the fee's collection, will be changed. The bill was put in open consultations with the Council of Congress on August 24, to September 2, 2018, and it received a single review, from the European Farmers, who were expected to support the bill. In addition, a statement from a customs manager did not comment on the fact that the fees would be made to the head of the state. Six. a law on eviction of horses is recommended for reimbursement of each exported horse. From the above means that the price cannot be changed except by law. As a result of the agreed bill, it must be considered negligible for companies and publics who are exporting horses. to give strength to evolutionary and research projects in horse culture. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and I'd like to refer to the report that comes with it. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u111	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the review of this case, but I raised questions. I know how precious the horse is and how valuable it is to a special offspring worth protecting. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on his attitude about how important this fund is and how much he will care about the culture of the Icelandic horse population that we all celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I thought for a while. A senator was going to speak down the crown of the Icelandic creation that she admired in our previous discussion at this meeting, but fortunately it wasn't. Hv. A senator is a powerful advocate of Icelandic agriculture, as we all know. I object to this matter for those who have the difficult task of making sure that this wonderful horsekind meets the requirements we make for it, stands as a protection of genetic factors, and on that basis I build this bill, that those who are involved in this case have tried to run this mission now for almost three years, a desire to the state for the price of their own possession from foreign horses, some 1,500 horses during 2017, up by 133%. I think it is a good job for those who are engaged in this work to support them fully in their good work. I have no doubt that this change will strengthen the work assigned to the fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u113	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for that good answer. I assure him that there is nothing to fear that I speak down the crown of creation, the Icelandic sheep. I welcome his words as he has shown that he is supporting the Icelandic horsekind. I expect that he will also be among the Icelandic sheep and the Icelandic farmers who wish to make a success of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u114	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in health care laws, the law on the issues of the elderly and the health insurance laws. The bill is based on a bill submitted to the General Assembly of 148th, a case of 426th but not granted. The bill is designed to equal the access of people who need a residence or day - long period, regardless of age, and priorities waiting for need. Certain adjustments are also considered necessary for conformity and explanations. The law on living and day - to - day living is now found only in the laws on the affairs of the elderly, No. 125/1999, but not on health care guidelines, No. 40/2007. They should be added to the law on living space and day, as well as on health insurance laws, No. 112/2008. The law on the affairs of the elderly shows that although nursing homes are defined for the elderly, it is permitted to invite younger ones to stay there if they have been evaluated in need of such treatment. According to local requirements, resources for day and space are intended only for the elderly. For a long time, there have been cases where there have been a request to stay in a local area and for people under 67 years of age. There has been a lack of legal provision for such forms, but with the change in the legislation proposed here, it will be permitted to provide an exception from the age conditions of residence and of day. In fact, it is given here for a project that has been on the move for quite some time. This bill was signed by a contract with Iceland's Health Insurance Institute and Insurance Institute. There was also a meeting with the National Institutes of Development, Iceland's Developmental Association, the National Association of Older Citizens, the NPA Center, the European Union of Iceland and the Enterprise Associations of Social Services. During the reimbursement of this bill, comments and indications have been sought as possible. A pleasure was made with the proposed plans in the bill that professional oral teams meet the needs of day-to-day. The source of this bill, to open the options for those under 67 years of age, will be considered in the case of young people with memory problems or, in particular, difficult illnesses. It was noted that people's needs vary in age periods that are truly correct and that they need to be taken into account in serving people. It is important that committees and/or oral teams have such views in light of the need for day-to-day services. Organizational services, such as nursing staff care, should be used only when professional evaluations are best met by them and other alternatives are not sufficient. It is important that the ministry is performed in accordance with the individual's needs and in agreement with them. The bill suggests 24. Law on Health Care, No. 112/2008, will be changed to make it clear that health insurance covers services provided by nurses, residents, and day-to-day agreed by IV. the part of the law. The change has been made to explain existing laws in terms of space and day - to - day living. The bill also contains regulations that are intended to be set up in the legislation on the affairs of the elderly for Ministers to discuss the arrangements of a professional candidate team and the conditions of the assessment of the need for day-to-day activities. Then there is expected to be a change in the laws on the affairs of the elderly, so instead of maximising the cost of day - to - day participation by the unscrupulous nature of 18% of the total pension according to Article 23. Act on social security. Since January 1, 2017, the law required the removal of basic pensioners. 116/2016, of the change in social security law and other laws, when the gaping classes of pensioners were combined. The money level of the new pension is much higher than the sum of the older basic pension, so it seems necessary to change the provision so that, according to a certain percentage of the new pensions that correspond to the previous amount of the basic pensions of nursing patients, they will be given the higher rates that have been paid for social security. A respectable president. I've been explaining the basics of this bill, but I'd like to say at the end of my history that the last council had a reason. The well - being committee of this bill, as it were, in discussion and in the conclusion that I thought it was not enough to complete its payment from the Council of II, and it would have been necessary to improve my consultation with those in which the legislation was concerned. As a result, the Ministry has now responded to the comments, as well as to others in the management of the Committee of the Last Parliament, but I expect now, a respectable president, to answer the questions raised by the Committee at previous levels. The case should now be considered ready to finish this time, and I expect to cooperate effectively with it. the welfare committee in that topic.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u115	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the history and contributions on this bill. I can't let it pass for me to come up here and discuss things like that when she last proposed this bill. It's like the highest. A minister in his talk brings this bill back, and I think it's a good thing to consider the advantages that have been made. I have long had doubts as to whether it was right in nursing homes to build people who were much younger than 67 years old. I understand that there may be a situation where it is natural not to discriminate against people according to age, but when we are talking about young people who will live in such homes for many years, it seems a little different. I'm not going to lie down against the bill, I'm going to back it up, and I'm going to understand that, given the fact that we have a regular work around our nursing room, it's normal for the same value in day-to-day and home. Often, some brief years are being discussed. I've brought this up because I think we need to take special care of the needs of young people living in nursing homes, and so should local people. I think these people often need a different kind of service than older ones. I welcome what is presented in a report with the bill, that it is noted that we should, of course, render individual service and that the need for service may vary greatly regardless of age, but this does not change the social status of younger ones. I think it is an important task for us in the next few years when the nation is certainly getting older, and it is clear that there is a great need for more nurses and also temporary people, looking to the need for more special services in younger ones and also to wonder if there is more need for money in younger ones. I especially refer to a case that I know quite well and to young ones who live in Hömna's nursing home in Mosfellsville. I know Mosfellsville has gone to the top. Minister for increased payment with these young people. To some extent, the Ministry has met such views. I know that in Reykjavík, he is fired in a Brekkitown special unit, which is an experimental project in which young people who need a nursing service live together. I just wanted to bring this matter up and warn us who are in here and especially the highest. A minister to give special attention to that issue. Then I would also like to mention an article published in the Morning Press, after Pétur Magnússon, president of a welfare agency, asking: "Did you forget the days of the day, or are you planning to put them down? " I think our answer here is that it is not intended at all to lay them down, and I just want to reiterate how important it is for the individuals who enjoy it and those who care for it. We must also reflect on the cost factor. As a result, I think it is important that we give up if something is already at their service. I'm not going to extend this discussion any further. I just wanted to point this out when we are discussing further opening up the fact that younger ones can use such services. I bear in mind that I understand that many times and seasons may be the best solution, but I think the most important thing is that it is not the only solution that is available, that individuals and their caregivers already have a choice in service and that we make sure that our service is directed to the needs of the party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u116	President. I was just gonna come up for a couple of minutes. This matter came to us on the welfare committee during the last session. It's like the highest. A health minister reviewed it and found that there had been insufficient consultation, and the matter was sent back to the Ministry. I welcome the decision to settle the matter again and to engage in consultations. This is amazingly good, and it's really important that we do this. I hope we're more used to getting into the habit of working in the council, that it's a serious agreement. I think it's a very positive step, and I'm glad we're doing it that way, and I'm looking forward to examining this matter on a welfare committee. I hope to see an upbuilding discussion on this subject, where many guests who are going to appear before the committee have been able to have this good consultation with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u117	Mr. President. We will discuss a bill to correct any change in health care laws and other laws. The matter has been called the day - to - day choice of space. It's like the highest. The minister came in earlier, but after a discussion at the council, the case came before the council. The welfare committee was the consonant opinion of the Ministry and the Committee that the matter needed to grow more and to seek more consultation than would have been done in the leading of its transport back then. That's been done, and that's fine. I think it's important in this discussion that the rules we're changing here are regulations to handle the exceptional situations. It was just the criticism that made the most evident in the committee that people were worried that this was a means of making a general plan for younger people. But, of course, it is not. This is a way to explain and ensure that individuals who need a certain service will not be held out on the basis of their age. That's first and last what we're doing. Also, we must not forget that day - to - day training services are very important to many age groups. A minister admitted that we may be among those who are primarily talking about individuals with memory problems who in some case need this service, and it is very important that they are not denied it. For those who have only been included in the discussion, this is an option that is not always appropriate for younger people, i.e. Of course, it can be the residence and the choice of day, but I think, in time, one will adapt to the ministry. There has also been a requirement in the community that we try to deal with it as much as possible. Happily, with increased emphasis on extramarital services and with increased emphasis on solutions such as user-controlled personal assistance, hopefully reduces the need for institutional services for younger individuals, whether they have serious medical problems or brain failures. Hopefully, this bill will not apply to very many individuals each year, but it is important to have this authority. Daytime and daily training are relatively cheap resources, as the discussion has actually shown. We're talking about resources in which a lot of people can be treated for relatively small amounts of money and at the same time make it easier for these individuals and their families to continue their own home. This is extremely important, and it must not be minimized. The secretary only introduced a warrant in the intake programme for day-to-day selection and training. I suppose that's what. The welfare committee will discuss that point further. It is a question of whether a great deal of faith has to be set up when discussing that day - to - day training is the treatment, in fact, the treatment of these individuals in question. It is a question of whether it should be a committee of some kind to determine treatment. It may be enough to determine which healthcare professionals or health care professionals can request this option and that their professional evaluations at any given time are effective. We'll discuss this further with the Committee. One thing has not been discussed here, and I'm finally going to come in for a little bit, the cost analysis of day-to-day training methods. We've heard that in the community, actually, came a reason. paritaprevir Bryndís only in the past, the Haraldsdóttir's daughter is that those who run day-to-day choices and coaches are not pleased with the donations that come from health insurance for them, i.e. that your donations are too low. This has actually been in the discussion for some time. I expect it to happen even if it doesn't come directly to this bill using the highest standard. The minister of the trip, using the occasion that the bill raises to reflect on these matters, the committee will no doubt do so too, even discussing with stakeholders what could be done better to get them involved so that the cost of day - to - day works are sufficiently strong. This option could then be run by the authority needed to make it attractive and, on the other hand, in order to serve its role as a resource that helps the home of its own. That is probably what we want people to live with as far as they can go.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u118	A respectable president. Here we present a bill to correct a change in health care and a change in health insurance. Over and over, and so on, the laws on the affairs of the elderly. These adjustments may not be major in the large context, and someone would say that this is a formality and that there are factors that were previously unclear or not defined in the law and that the wording of the text was used in the medical or health insurance system. V.E.G. A minister earlier pointed out that laws were actually being placed on something that had been practiced for some years. I welcome the changes that have been made in this text since our review of the concept of the welfare committee of the previous council, i.e. that there may be room space for individuals less than 67 years of age, as well as for day - to - day living. These are delicate factors, and I agree with what's happened. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. paritaprevir In this regard Þór Gunnarsson's son Ólafur. These are delicate factors, and we may be able to face up to younger ones who need to move, depending on the circumstances of breaking a nest where they once lived and move. It may be that way. Regarding the days of the day, it's natural to have younger people, as has been shown, with regard to our alzheimer patients or those with memory problems. It is urgent that this is a very progressive service, and it allows humans to make practical use of their resources in the meantime. This may not be the sole control of your age. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson was only involved with the day-to-day entry teams. I agree with him about that. The day-to-day strategy is enormously important and must be active. They need to be there when the need arises, since these are usually individuals living at home who need the ministry right away or just right away to get the most out of it. Of course, this also applies to those who are coming from a medical facility. It's just that it's only a concern that the paperwork is not allowed to carry this great service. It will be exciting to deal with this in the Committee work. There is little left over doubt, and that has exactly been true. In response, an economic group of disabled persons felt that there was a possibility that there was a ideologies of the user - controlled personal assistance, which, of course, was not the idea. It has now been clear, for my part, that not the first thing we think should be, is to be different. We need to focus much more on this in our work on future losses when discussing health care and health care for older people. I just feel like going to the top. Minister, if she finally arrives in a speaker's chair, to cover some of the costs. It says that this will not result in additional expenses for the government funds, nor will it be for the person who exploits the day - to - day choice, it will be more costly for the individual to take advantage of these advantages. This is made clear in detailed information, but there is no doubt that any additional fees are being paid for this service. Then I expect us to have only a meaningful conversation on the welfare committee about this bill and to be able to deliver it quickly and with a smile.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u119	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct any change in health care laws, laws on the subjects of the elderly, and health insurance laws (during space and daytime). I think this is an important step in the right direction. We must realize that in view of the circumstances in which this service is to be performed, it is often necessary to be on a broader basis. However, it is specifically stated that the goal of the bill is to balance the access of those who need a stay in space or for daylight, regardless of age, and priorities as needed. The priorities are important. Sadly, we have people in our community who need a similar service but who may not meet the conditions of law and age. Then there is a need to apply for a replacement from what is now lacking. However, I feel that such services are often performed, and I can understand that it is very important that these needs be fulfilled. I do not agree that people need to worry that this service will not remain professional although it is a younger client. When it comes to evaluating such needs, I fully trust my healthcare professional. The staging of the ministry is important, but we certainly need to consider individual needs. It is important to keep our schedule of care from the possibility that younger clients will not be cared for. I'd also like to conclude that, in the end, although the changes may seem formal, there is a slight change in something that may already have been new, it is also important that we take into account the potential cost increases in this regard. Otherwise, I hope that this service will continue to be a good discussion, that the bill will succeed, and that it will support this whole mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-16-20.u120	A respectable president. I thank you for good discussions and communication on billing what has been foretold. I have a few speculations, first of all, what is a red thread through this case, that here we are, in fact, part to do it as a why. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson points out that he would take the lead in a project that has been in the hands of a people for quite some time. However, it will not be easy to look for a problem on the waters in which we want to see the main lines of our service changed, first of all, the factor that attracts us not only to age that is in relation to when the priorities are set in some resources but more likely to be needed and evaluated at any given time. In a sense, it is the time for a child to let his or her age alone be measured in these matters. However, I would like to say here, because it has been shown in the matter of several members of Congress that the future vision of older people, of the health services itself, of rural society, and of the same health authorities is in the way that there is an ever - increasing need for flexible management and, like a quirk. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson referred to, the expansion of services is increasing. That is the requirement of the day for which we must respond. Emphasis on the increase in calendars is not only a word on paper but also actually visible in government emphasis and is aimed at calming in the same direction as the older citizens' organization has repeatedly pointed out, the requirement to live at home as long as possible and to be desired, i.e. that the service calls for this need but does not depend on the needs of the system, so to speak, and that the emphasis on extracurricular services will be increased. This is seen not only in the service of older citizens but also in other psychiatric matters, as well as in other cases that we used to do in the past weeks. All of this is very similar to developments. I'd like to thank the Committee again for our best cooperation at our last council. I think it's important that we have this possibility, and flexibility I like to call it, in cooperation with the council and with the council at any given moment, that there is a mutual understanding that if there is something missing in the process needed to satisfy the need for sufficient confidence in changing legislation and then you need to give the time and trust in the cooperation and consultation necessary. I thank you for the positive words, and I personally believe that the changes in the case have been greatly beneficial, but especially what has been prepared more clearly in the wording of a report that is responsible for the interaction of the services determined on this site and the radical changes that have taken place in the legislation in order to ensure even more individual service, according to the Treaty's Personal Help. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson spoke specifically about contributions from day - to - day training. As noted in recent media discussions, economic services have expressed concern for the situation. It is proper to make the council aware that contracts for nurses and residents are running out by year, but it is authorized to extend that contract for two years. A discussion is available, but this is certainly not a simple matter, especially in view of the fact that the ministry is alive and that it changes constantly. A discussion on the framework of day space agreements is in progress, and I expect that if a health committee wishes to be informed about the progress of that work as necessary, it would probably be to do so when the matter begins to clear up. Hv. paritaprevir Brjánsson also asked about the cost. So to answer, this is not expected to allow the growth of space, so there is no increased cost built in. In the end, we should thank you for your good discussions and good planning. In my opinion it is important to live both in such a way that the legislation reflects real action, that is, of course, something we should always do; but in addition, clear readers can note that there is a certain tone on a journey that makes promise of a changed emphasis on the issues of older people.
