ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer today, but the Council states that if needed, or until a discussion on the program is concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u2	To answer, financial and economic secretary, social and equal minister, Environment and Resource Ministers and Education and Culture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u3	Mr. President. According to the newsmagazine yesterday, a minister says that the RuV is urgent to establish a matter of competitiveness and that the management of the company and the managers is working on it. This would mean that RUSH would be 400 million, including 400 million. for the treatment of worthwhile taxation and taxation regulations. According to my sources, this isn't right. However, the directors of RUSB have been working closely with the Ministry for the past few years to expand Article 4. in the RUS Act and has responded to comments about the competitive part of the company, including by separating it from the rest of the books. I understand that ESA conditions are already met. However, it seems that the minister is going to force the Society to make major changes in business, which will cost the amount, with little reason or with the benefits. Then another 500 million. K. reduction of revenues resulting from the Minister's proposal for less share in the advertising market. Of course, people may have different opinions about the proposals and the repetitive statements made by the minister. But I ask her how in the world she's going to make up $1 billion. loss of income. That doesn't mean anything for the highest. Minister to come up now and say that there will be ways to do this or that this will be done somehow, we need to get the answer now. I'm going to the top. A minister may have RUV reduce his activity across 85% of the population's will? That's at least reduction, which will have widespread impact on RIV management in the event of loss. V.E.G. A minister only said a few days ago: We still want a powerful State Radio. Maybe there's nothing to say. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u4	A respectable president. I thank you very much for this inquiry and the great support the Government Radio has for you. Senator. I'd like to say first, it's very important for everyone to live by law. We've been working with the State Radio on this process. However, it is not completely settled whether this output is working. I understand that this will meet the State Rules for ESAs on government grants, but it will be discussed in detail. What we've been working on and I find it extremely urgent to come up here is that there's a balance between the media market and that competition is active. The work is done. Regarding the cost of this separation, it's just gonna cover it better, exactly who it is, and why it exists. I've been in touch, of course, with the directors of RUV about how we're going to do this and I'm gonna use the time I have to do something to make things clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u5	Mr. President. Yesterday's newsletters will not be so much clearer that it should be done contrary to what we know has been a common plan for both the Ministry and the RUS directors. V.E.G. Minister has come to remind me of Münchhausen Baron, she shows up on press interviews, she beats herself, promises the other thing, and then when it comes down to it, she usually won't be able to answer. She didn't even answer my question...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u6	The President reminds the senators to direct their case to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u7	Mr. President. V.E.G. One minister did not even answer the question: What if she forces it forward, and the State Radio becomes of 400 million? K. will take over the top of 507 million. K. Who is lost because of the counsel of the minister? What will she do to make it better? It needs to be answered because, in the end, public funds are playing without obvious benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u8	A respectable president. It's all there is to it. We're working with RUSH to see how we're going to do these things. It is clear that the law is clear, and I have said that this operation is to be separated from January 1. It is the government that will enforce it. We just need to review exactly what is fulfilled and what the cost is. As I understand, this exact cost is not completely clear. [[Up front.]] It just needs to be better considered. I have to say exactly as it is, of course, we're always trying to work here faithfully. We always carefully review what we do so that we do what is right, and I just need to see how this money is available. I just need to take a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u9	How do you spell millions?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u10	As I've said, we're working on this, and I look forward to presenting them to the proposals to the government when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u11	The president reminds us of the general requirement of the council that members of Congress speak directly to the president or address the body of Congress, addressed the hall, not to any members or ministers directly. That is also true of pleas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u12	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary has now received a report of the National Social Science Institute of the University of Iceland on the foreign influence of the bank crash. These articles discuss important things, including those found in the Bible. things that had long since come to a formal view. True, some of the political left side have suggested that in a report on the foreign influence of the bank crash, too much was discussed on the foreign factors of the bank crash, too little on their own opinions on the domestic politics. In the process, people have been hailed in the central authors of the report and his person, as well as in the same people, saying that criticizing scholars is absolutely incorruption. I guess that's just left - handed scholars. But what does it look like? Secretary of finance on the results of the report, and how will he follow the case? Will these issues be adopted in the representatives of foreign and international institutions, resulting in a request for an apology from the British government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u13	A respectable president. I thank you for this introductory discussion of the report, of foreign influences in the leading tide of the collapse. I can say with what. A senator that it is time and important to fill in the overall picture of the discussion by examining the foreign factors in particular. Of course, in the past, we have changed the law, received a report of the Allied Research Committee, even established the National Court and joined the election for several times, and all the discussion has been about national authority. That is why at one time I thought it was important to examine the foreign shows. What we have in our hands now is a summary, a summary of factors that are important, e.g. that the Icelanders were evidently isolated at the time. This is true not only in terms of the harmony of the World Bank Fund but, as everyone remembers, it took months to reach the World Bank Management Board for political debates on whether to come to Iceland, and also our neighboring nations were very reluctant unless under certain rigid conditions to support them in the economy. This is of great interest and importance. For the United Kingdom, we can see in the report that the banks that were killed there, Singer & Friedlander and Heritable Bank, were not at all in any financial problem and paid off their debts, unlike many banks that were saved and in a much worse position. This is of utmost importance to be available at one point in a complete summary. Here I have touched only a few things that I believe are important to be public, if they are now available in English to fill in and help explain various sources of influence in the process of the collapse in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u14	Mr. President. You can agree with it as the ultimate. The minister studied his case and did well, but what about the answer to the question about how the minister intends to follow the case? He does not think that he will work it out, just as he does at the highest. A minister noted that earlier work on aspects of the bank crash had led to some kind of action, some perhaps successes and others? If we agree on the importance of what is being held there, and we discuss in detail and, in many cases, come up with a very strong argument, it is not necessary, in the highest view. Minister to follow up on the case, e.g. as a formal comment to a partner, whether represented by foreign countries or represented by international institutions that were even abused, as stated in the report, and what about Britain, in particular, and the occurrence described in the report on that state? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u15	A respectable president. Some of the points discussed in this report are events that have passed, and it has little purpose to point out that things have been in some way. Consider, for example, the financial aid of the International Cash Fund. That's what's over. All loans are paid today. Another factor is the damage to private partners because of it. It is then for them to be careful about what they stand for and to make comments. Then there are things that directly communicate with foreign governments. I'd like to keep it up in this discussion that we've been making many comments, e.g. To British authorities because of the progress Iceland was experiencing on their part at the time. I have done so on many occasions myself, personally, but I'm not going to rule out that the report warrants special consideration in some cases without me ready to make a statement about the exact issues that would be involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u16	President. Last night the news appeared that Bragi Guðbrandsson, the then president of the Children's Institute, had not gone beyond his work field. They referred to a review of the Ministry of Health on Children's Health, Child Welfare Services and the Ministry itself. There's something about this check as the highest. A minister, I hope, can explain. In May of this year, the highest standards were made. The prime committee to review the available evidence and the administration of the local government, i.e. The Child Welfare Services involved in the case, the Children's Protection Agency and the Ministry of Health. By order of the committee, Prime Minister took the matter out of the hands of a welfare committee. So it was a major blow when the committee produced its work that had been narrowed down, with the permission of a president, the concern of the Ministry of Health on the complaints it received about the Children's Institute and the results the Ministry described in a letter to the Director of Children's Health Laboratory. Yesterday's news reports revealed that this review by the Ministry was done only on the arrival of Bragi the Guðbrandsson of Ernán as a so - called Hafnarfjörður. In fact, let's be warned that nothing has happened to the Ministry on this review, or had not done it, I see that it has recently occurred. All my information I've got from the media since yesterday. When will the Ministry issue this review of the mess that this case has become? Why did a minister not ask the Independent Committee to consider this matter in May? The general government board under the U.S. Marshal's Office is that officials are not to review their actions in the management board, as such a situation in general is in danger of the lack of objective reasons for the review and control, and is demeaning the beliefs of the parties of the case as well as the general public to the fact that this is the case. Why did the minister not tell himself about the matter, as delicate as it really is? Was a minister qualified to settle it and reach its conclusions? Is this meant to strengthen confidence?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u17	A respectable president. I am delighted to take this matter up again here at the moment. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, for a long time since we had this conversation last time. That's exactly right, like what's wrong. A senator explained that the results of an independent review made by two independent lawyers were that the Ministry of Health had not been able to do so and that they had, in fact, had not been able to do so. Disregarding the legal rights of Bragi the son of Guðbrandsson in the process. As a result, Bragi Guðbrandsson's request that a certain section of the matter be brought back, with members of the case being the Director of Children's Health and the Children's Protection Committees. They wanted this Hafnarfjörður case to be recorded. On behalf of the Ministry, they agreed. Afterward, the message I took to the Ministry of Ministry to ensure that neutrality was maintained in the report that would then be taken into this matter. The Ministry made a deal with Kristín Benediktsdóttir to care for that job and to be the Ministry within the backwaters. This is shown in a report by the Ministry that appears on its website today. Being fully neutral has been observed there, and this fine attorney, Kristín Benediktsdóttir's daughter, was agreed to handle the matter on behalf of the Ministry and therefore answered this letter with the result. Her conclusion is that the Ministry should retract this and drop the case, as the Department's website shows. I encourage a welfare committee to look into this matter and then call up the daughter of Kristín Benediktsdóttir, and the Ministry and the Ministry's Chief, to examine this matter, whether at a closed meeting or an open meeting because this case was very open in its own time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is hoped that this assessment will be completed, and full neutrality was maintained in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u18	President. First of all, there's no announcement from the Ministry before this came in the news last night. When asked about these matters in his day, the minister of child - welfare committee secreted basic information. In his study of these serious problems within the administration system of one of the most sensitive cases, the Ministry of Ministry mismanaged. This adds up to the highest. One prime minister used misleading language when she introduced her plans that an independent committee would review these matters all on a broad foundation at the time. It was found that the Ministry of Health allowed the use of the study fingers and the lines on what to consider. Not particularly independent, is it? I hope the General Board of Directors and Commission will begin to investigate the conduct of the Ministers to the Council on this matter as soon as possible. Formerly, a minister, or the government, cannot be trusted for the overall review of this group of lawsuits.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u19	A respectable president. This assessment was performed at one time by two independent lawyers. Neither the one standing here nor the other came to control the way it was done. The same is true of these repeated requests made by Bragi the Guðbrandsson of Guðbrand. Kristín Benediktsdóttir was counselling in it, and the person here had nothing to do with this development. It's extremely important in this case, I can agree, to support the Ministry's administration. There are actions to do that. Among other things, a special quality and surveillance agency has been established, which is completely independent of the Ministry. The Ministry is also strengthening itself administratively through dissociation. There are many measures being taken to strengthen its administration. I've always been happy to discuss this matter and I'm ready for it, whether it's a health committee or a board of directors or a board of directors. I'd be glad to do that, and I'd enjoy it. I encourage it to be done and agree with it by reason. A senator said it would be informative. It would also be interesting to examine the services of the welfare committee in this case from the start to the finish.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u20	Mr. President. Earlier this year, on the 12th of June, a proposal was adopted for Congress resolution on the lack of taxation of pension. Transporters were members of Stockholm's Congress, and one representative from each political party at the General Assembly. The case was agreed together. With the permission of a president, I'm going to read that interpretation: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers from providing a legal bill, no later than November 1, 2018, a release from tax-free pensions under social aid law, No. 99/2007. At the billing, we'll have the work to do, including... consult with Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister with the aim of ensuring that inadequacy of pension does not interfere with social security. Now it's as if the case isn't in the Government Constitution. There must be a natural explanation that would be informative, but above all, I would like to ask a minister what will be the outcome of the preparations and when he intends to submit the bill that the General Assembly assigned him to submit no later than November 1, 2018.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u21	A respectable president. Yes, I can answer that for the work of preparing this case. I expect that, as requested, will be ready for October, and may then appear before November 1. In general, for the lack of tax reforms or pension payments, I think we'll have to consider whether or not it's important to keep our tax and tax reform agreements. I agree with the council members that this is a good way to add relief to those in the country who have little to play, because it is indeed the very least those who have mentioned anything between the hands that fill the payment that is being given to the people involved, and their lack of tax can do much more to their relief. When it comes to discussing the bill, we will likely consider whether this is the way we want to reach those involved or whether other methods could be more useful. So we wondered immediately, do I expect, whether any certain pensions or compensations are meant here, should be tax-free, while everything else is taxed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u22	Mr. President. In view of his words, I thank the Minister and allow myself to trust that a controversial bill will be submitted here no later than November 1st. But I believe that there is good reason to review the perplexing basis of this matter. He is that although it's called pension reform, it's really nothing more than reimbursement at the various costs people are facing and no compensation is paid on the health insurance of Iceland. Here we will discuss hearing aids and such factors. The taxing as if there were income reimbursement on the budget is very questionable, must be said. Likewise, counting this as a income, which makes it possible to reduce the many benefits that people enjoy, is completely off - limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u23	A respectable president. I understand those views. The senator and here will be considered as well as the payment protocol. As noted above, we have rules in our credit system that assume that patients will be involved to a certain extent in the cost. There's a lot of roofs, there's talk of earphones, and then there's street streets. What I meant in my first speech is that it will be tested when we discuss the matter when it comes to whether the right way to cope with this is to increase the payment in the payment system or to provide an innuendo for remuneration because the payment system does not provide for it. It's the interaction of the systems I was simply referring to, but I think the objective of the case is very noble and good.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u24	A respectable president. My request is directly to the highest. Secretary of education and culture. Now it is clear that the number of academics in Iceland has tripled since the turn of the century, but financial benefits of university education have declined rapidly. Today, he has the very least in Europe. The number of college graduates is increasing, but the number of highly specialized jobs with these developments is not increasing and is now the second - largest group of people who are out of the work if they are classified by education. At the same time we see that in certain articles there is a visible lack of students, such as in trade and science, it seems, and it's not very comfortable for me personally to admit, beyond the availability of the graduates of business and lawyers. Clearly, then, the supply of academics and the demand for employment is not balanced, and evolution does not indicate that it will improve spontaneously. So my question is, Does the Ministry seem to flimsy in this matter? Has the Ministry examined, or is it going to look at measures, or are there a plan to deal with this trend? Do we not need to consider measures to improve the level of academic education and the demand for employment?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u25	A respectable president. Thank you for your good inquiry. It is very timely because it is absolutely right. A senator mentions, there is a discrepancy between those who are written out and the demand for employment. She's asking for action. First, regarding the trade, to-do, and occupational procedures, we are taking considerable measures in this regard. We've been reevaluating the algorithm before the high school phase, and there's a special consideration for the trade, to-do and to-do. We're improving the job position in high school to improve all the conditions and to improve the development of industry, to-do- and-to-do. Another thing we're doing is making it up because there's simply a lack of teachers in the future, and we're putting some special money in order to increase the demand for teaching school. We have put in particular 50 million people on that assignment. What we've seen, however, is very positive, and I want to point it out. There is an increase in the registering of certain articles, e.g. the electricity, an increase of 33% this fall. Similarly, there is an increase in training as a teacher, so we already see some benefit from the procedures we have taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Education and cultural minister for good answers. It's really fun for me to hear how this trend seems to be going and that a minister is going to apply himself in these matters. Then I'd like to add the ultimate question. A minister would want to put some kind of special emphasis on the appearance of specific classes, such as helping girls or stressing the growth of girls in certain articles as well as the reproduction of men in others where they have been in smaller numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u27	A respectable president. I'd also like to mention, please, and add the answer before tomorrow to the meeting of the Scientific and Technical Council, and there's a special focus on your skills and linking it to the labour market. One of the things I think we can do a lot better in Iceland is hooking up education and employment. Then we have entered into what is bad. A senator was saying that there is a good interaction, so the demand in the economy has arrived in education. I'd also like to mention that we're looking at the sex ratios. If we are able to increase the number of girls enrolled in engineering, industrial and occupational studies, we will achieve similar ratios to those in the North countries, in Europe, so this is first and last sexist in these articles. We're looking into it, and we're aware of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u28	Mr. President. In contrast, housing is not a luxury that is to be offered only to well - off people. Rather, it is one of the basic needs of all. It is not only to shield yourself from the storms but also to provide security for individuals and families. We call it home, Mr. President. According to a recent report, it's going to be the highest. Ministers in a short time will be Minister of Social Protection and Child Welfare. In view of this, it is proper to remind the minister that children have a special need for a good and safe home should be given the best condition for them to develop and thrive. And I repeat, I'm not talking about a host in the most narrow sense of that word but about a permanent home without people rushing into a difficult tenement and being constantly torn up from friends and schools. This group of subjects is of utmost importance to us, and this does not mean hoping or pointing out that there is more to it and that the market finds balance. It is strictly necessary for governments to bring about a systematicly healthy development and to prevent a routine of fear - inspiring conditions that develop in our unstable economy. However, governments have not cared for it. And it sucks to experience the ambitions of the present government, which will not be any more than what has long been negotiated. V.E.G. Minister. It must take action that increases the number of apartments for less income, social housing, and will permanently build a stable and human rent. In the United States, however, a large group of people with low incomes are too high for financial support. Such ones can misstep the housing market. It has literally been left behind after the workaver system was removed. Here, too, smaller families have difficulty buying roofs over their heads at the same time when renting is severe, renting too high, and renting is all too hard. There is not even enough available at the cost of individual and family income. Finally, it is appropriate to mention the younger ones who have been left behind in housing. Its power has not increased as far as older generations are concerned. At the same time, housing prices have increased by 43% above the general prices, much more than in other countries. These groups are so held captive by ten - year - old cash markets, where others see their advantage in profit from their plight. V.E.G. A minister should now draw the blood to his duty. In a government in which his party was involved, the workers'farm system was laid down. If not, there would be some 14,000 more apartments in that country. It does not take much wisdom to realize that the situation would be quite different if it had not been done. In Iceland, some 50,000 people are in an expensive rented market, and many are driven around. Centers in Reykjavík cost about 190,000 k. During a month to rent a two - room apartment, and nowhere in any of the capitals in the North countries is it as expensive to rent as here, not even in Copenhagen, not even in Oslo, Mr. President, and outside the capitals'prices are also highest in Iceland. The government must simply make it a point to see that the contribution of an unprofitd tenant tenant property to be much larger than it is today. People with less income find it most difficult to find a home and thus live with the insecurity I mentioned earlier and many hostile renters. Research shows that tenants in a tenet have been less affordable, and rent - rent children are more likely to suffer want than other children. So this should be a special debate for the new child secretary. The union is in those words to offer suggestions that I hope a minister learns and uses. They are in eight teams and are intended to improve the housing market. I realize that they will not solve all our problems, but they are necessary first steps in reverse to those that governments have taken in the past few years, either by indifference or by direct evil action. The first step toward that is to ensure that all housing security, which is one of the reasons here, will develop a family life society that compares with the states we prefer, the North countries. I'd like to ask you, is it the highest? Minister willing to make use of additional building scholarships at a suitable rented apartment? Second, and second, is a minister willing to submit a bill that increases the duty of all members of the community when it comes to social housing so that any rural society is not alone with the project?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u29	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion, Einarsson's son is on Logi. I can relate to the emphasis he placed in his opening language, which made it clear that housing matters are a matter of welfare because housing is a welfare concern. That is why they live in the Department of Social Affairs, which is why we have also recently supported the facilities within the administration and in the Ministry. That was even. to do with an important bill adopted at the last council that required increased duties of the camp loan fund to become a so-called housing agency, by more setting up housing programmes in positions, policies, policy, analysis and other factors that are extremely important in order for the housing agency to play a role like that in other parts of the North countries. We are also taking steps to further strengthen the administration within the housing arrangements by the year - to - year meeting, if a Senate hearing is being made at the General Assembly, by the rules of Human Rights Agency and by order of the building market to the Ministry of Social Affairs. This will be comparable to what is happening in the North countries, but it's not like any northern nation except for us that our housing and responsibility for that category are at one Ministry and then the Department of Buildings at another government. It's happening at New Year's. By doing so, we gain added force to this truly important class of languages. Hv. A senator puts great emphasis on the tenet in his own language. Before I get there, I'd like to mention one thing that also appeared in his case, and I'd like to consider the measures for the first buyers. Of course, we want to have a strong tenet and to strengthen it, but how important it is to also ensure measures to allow young people to go to the housing market! The government is working on proposals for that being, the Department of Social Affairs in cooperation with the apartment loan fund. There is a strategy that governments in our neighboring countries have used, as well as some suggestions based on the provision of pension savings to buy on their first apartment, a so - called Swiss route. It is becoming a wake-up call that it is wise to make some kind of use of pension money into the real estate market, that is also a debate among the labor movement now, a growing debate about how the pension system is supposed to get more involved in the housing. It will be interesting to find out what the outcome will be as a result at ASI later in the following month. When it comes to the tenure market, there is quite a lot of work to be done on those topics within the Ministry of Social Affairs. First, we are in a very good, close partnership with the workforce on what changes are needed to the general apartment system, but we are expanding into the overall apartment system by 800 million next year, reaching the budget for 2019. Admittedly, this system needs to be changed greatly. It was a turning point when we took that step. Then Eygló Harðardóttir, daughter of Social Affairs, was the minister of society. However, there are changes to be made. We're going over with the labor movement and the Union of Icelandic rural society how we can speed things up there, what we can do to make this happen faster. We are also talking to the labour market's parties about how to fund the tenures when it comes to tenants. I expect the results of this work to arrive early next year. It has also been considered ways to promote rent markets and has even been used. in their examination, and it has been for quite some time to set up a special troubled tenet in which there is just that goal. A senator spoke of running a tenet after adverse viewpoints. I've just arrived from Finland, where we had a good meeting with a sister's office in the apartment loans and with the secretary of housing in that country. It's only so, fine senators, that a government fund runs there. It's the right government in Finland today. The next year - it's been so successful, they're building a 400Howl500 apartment every year - this state-made tenant tenant society and the right government that is now in power to increase this society's personal budget by 50 million euro. I hope that, on the shoulders of the state, our community, our cooperation with the labour market, or any other partner, we will be looking to an added problem. On the other hand, there is one thing that matters to come in here as well, and I would like to emphasize that the person here is applying himself to the matter as a matter of course. A senator asked about, but more weights need to be done. [[The president calls.]] There are other areas because none of the above will follow if we do not receive additional contributions from property and construction sites to build on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u30	Mr. President. I thank the advisor as well as the entrance to the highest degree. Minister. As a member of a welfare committee, we had the opportunity to visit an apartment loan fund this week. It was a very useful visit and a good one. Clearly, many good things are happening there. When we discuss the safety and support of first purchases, the key is that countries and rural groups work together and talk. I'd like to roll it up here for a second. Of course, the role of the apartment loan fund is also important when it comes to social housing - and now I'm going to let myself think aloud. There is a lack of housing, we know it, and it seems to me that government support has recently diminished, and the support of the members of the group has increased. Another: The social role of an apartment loan fund is to continue, looks like everything to me, and it's a question, Is there any need for an apartment loan to reduce interest on the loans it provides? As long as others grow older, there are 4.2% of them. At the same time, the group we want to define may not have access to social housing. The change in this growth arrangement has to come from the General. I'll direct that question to the highest level. Minister how he likes it. I just want to mention this point here because changing legislation and thereby the new role of the camp loan fund is now funded by the agency responsible for the construction of housing. That's what I said, thanks for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u31	Mr. President. Reykjavíkurburg's policy in organizational matters over the past few years has been that 90% of the population is on the west side of Ellisonvog's property on grounds most commonly owned by private and investment partners. The focus of the main organization over the past ten years has been on the expensive urban areas in the middle zone, which have had a major impact on rent and housing prices. The policy of those who have led the city during the past 25th century is one of the major factors in the poor housing situation in the capital area, and especially in Reykjavík, where it is not uncommon to have the square price in the new buildings at 700,000,600,000. The latest example of apartment prices is four square metres sold at up to 1,100,000 dollars. square metres in the middle of Reykjavík. The long - term lack of property in Reykjavík has been an underlying factor in the poor development of the housing situation for a long time. The rich have indeed been in a state of permafrost. During the past 20 years, in 1998,2018, the population of Reykjavík has increased by 18% but in the neighboring city of Reykjavík, i.e. The population has increased by 68% at the same time. Reykjavík's neighbors have carried the heat of the population growth in the capital area. Reykjavík's Enlightenment Policy for the past 20 years is a major factor in today's terrible housing market, a policy that has played a major role in the promotion of the country's prices, which has increased the perennial value of home loans far and wide around the country. It is proper to keep in mind when discussing housing and the cause and the consequences of the serious situation in which we live and trying to figure out the reason. It should be a cause, not always talked about the consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u32	President. I'd like to thank you for taking the initiative to set the premises here on the council program. The challenge we face is great, and it is vital that governments do their part to win it. The security of the house is something that the government should guarantee the public, for it provides a basis for people to have security and good living conditions. The development of the current budget bill has established that the current government intends to continue the course of the previous governments. This puts the weight of a person's ability to buy a place to live. What are the consequences of this course? Of course, it makes it easier for some people to buy homes, especially those who in some way can collect the 5 million needed in payment, either by staying long in parents' homes or by collecting or simply by borrowing from friends and relatives. We also see that people live much longer at home in Iceland than in the rest of the North countries. Just about 15% of the population of 25◯34 still lives at home, but this figure is just about 5% in the rest of the North countries. What about the others who can't get these millions? What about the people who are forced to go renting young people? There are a large number of people who will never be able to buy their own housing. In Reykjavík and Iceland, rent prices are also higher than in all North countries, and pay is not much better, especially in low wages groups. Government procedures to help people buy homes are not just useless for these people, they could make things worse. When measures are used to facilitate housing, demand for housing increases and prices increase, meaning that rent prices are rising. President. I suggest that we think more of the people who have been left behind in the Icelandic house market, the people who are just trying to make the monthly books come up and may have a long payout.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u33	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. I don't think countries or rural areas and groups of the workforce have been able to provide adequate housing for normal employees in the years and decades. The situation in the capital area is out of the map, I think, about rent prices, and the price of uplifted housing, making it impossible for young people to buy without parental assistance. And then there are those who can stay in their parents'homes. The situation in many parts of the country is also not good. There has been a lack of housing and may not have been built for decades. There, the market law has a higher structure value than the market price. Following the approval of a commercial rented law, the construction of such apartments began at urban areas in many countries where rent prices should be manageable. That's good. But we need to do much better and greatly for the sake of social housing and support at young people's first purchases. This caught my attention and that of others, when the paracarite factory of Biluddal built a house made up of units from Estonia over a few weeks in the summer. I feel that such planning is needed in many parts of the country and maybe even here in the capital area. I like a lot of what Ministers are doing in their programmes, e.g. measures to support the early purchase and construction of an unfavourable tenant partner with rural and labour market partners. This fall is free of contracts, and the labor movement's focus on housing security is high. I agree that the state should arrive there and think that the pension funds should contribute to this structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u34	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for this need for this discussion and the highest. Minister for joining us today. Our house - to - house problem is the most urgent problem in the community today, and we certainly have not been affected by the shouting that we have experienced. I'm not going to do a check on the lack of weight policy available, e.g. Reykjavíkurburg, a map of property with no parallel because there is no shortage of property. You cannot fully understand why things are really happening and what is really behind them. We may look a little closer, so far to the legislature, so far to the legislatator who maintains loans, insurance on mortgages, and the mortgage that is inside the mortgage, the billions of homes of the land are actually created above their loans. Why don't we just start at the beginning? A respectable president. The goal of a camp loan fund is to meet them, and it is to meet those who need help to get a roof over their heads. What has he done? He's sold out to corporate super-emissionding companies hundreds of apartments, instead of putting them out into the market, our apartment loan fund, for financial gains that not every average person can afford to rent from a different source or save in debt. Is it not time for us to think of a little closer and an apartment loan that probably has the highest interest rate and those to remember? I promise you, the profit-raised cash company that bought the apartments and borrowed from an apartment loan didn't pay 4.2% to grow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u35	Mr. President. Here's a big issue, and thanks to you. paritaprevir The need for this discussion is Logi son of Einarsson. A roof over our heads is one of the basic needs of all of us. Life without access to a home is not acceptable. Fortunately, most people live in such security but far away from everyone. We have not been able to arrange for knots to have a balanced balance in a housing market where supply and demand are more readily maintained. The market has not been adequately equipped for this work and for the public. Despite the fact that perfection will likely never be achieved, this can be done much better. Such balance is essential for those who are able and willing to have their own housing. Yet, that is not enough. Real estate prices, access to capitals, and especially interest rates are of prime importance here. Invisibility is low for the person who owes himself what his payment load will be for the future. In many cases, apartment purchases are likened to gambling, where everything is subject to gambling. What's overcomeable today won't be a year. This won't be over. Swinging in the nation's farms, and the cost at the crown is shown very much here. Residents believe that this problem will always take place in the country's accounts until we solve the problem and that it is the best way to change coins. Granted, it will not be done tomorrow, but it will never be done if that road is never started. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: What does the Minister have to do with freeing property buyers from this gambling?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u36	A respectable president. As noted in the case of a saying, in the next few hours, the United States will provide a concierge proposal for action that is intended to help people get their first purchases, provide security for families in trouble, and increase rent - house supply. We make permanent paths out of the trouble we have experienced, permanent paths to culture, and dignity. These are eight suggestions and I will run on them very briefly. We suggest that the startposts be set up before the General Assembly to set up a Norwegian model with the goal of making it easier for young people and children's families to buy their first purchase of housing. Then the Icelandic government will begin to build at least 5,000 rented apartments in the coming years in order to get it ready for a rented market that is fired without a profit plan. Third, when it comes to social housing, we suggest that duties be placed on rural society with the aim of equalizing the burden of rural society. Fourth, housing and growth improvements will be increased in accordance with pay development and reductions with the aim of reducing the tax burden of low and intermediate income groups. Fifth, the European Building Regulation will be simplified and consistent with the regulations of other countries to cover the possibilities of making units and sorting practicalities. sixth, the legal bill to be passed to the General Assembly, which separates the individual's income from the rent of one apartment capital tax. A bill will be submitted to the General Assembly for a change in rent law to ensure tenants'housing security and rights, as well as other changes in the law of housing with the objective of young people and disability that share housing rights. A respectable president. It's a message and a fight of equals. We expect them to fight. Congress officials who would really like to contribute the way of the great well - being to make it possible for all to live with security take full weight on our side. [[The president calls.]] It's not complicated, we want everyone to have a home, that families and children aren't on the decline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The important topic of housing with the highest degree is the Logi of Einarsson. Minister of Ásmundur the Einar Daðason of David. As we have seen in the discussion so clearly, security is key to priorities and priorities that people are able to cover their heads with roofs. We view it as a basic need. Of course, living matters are a matter of dress and grooming, part of the standard of living for different groups in a different place of life. Despite the good common wishes and standards that tell us that this is a general prosperity and standard of living with the best of international control, despite the increase and general prosperity, the fact that real estate is high and high that makes it difficult for young people to buy their first estates, makes rent markets difficult and the cost of living a relative amount of money, whether it is a property or a rent, making it difficult for many to get along with the end of pay days. Over the years, governments have used various means to ensure housing security; measures to support their first purchases, subsidies with interest, try to ensure the availability of social housing. All of this is here today, and we can see it in a budget bill, a total of 13.5 billion, which is 100 of you. K. to every home in the country. With equality between groups and groups, we should be able to set aside much money in a simpler and more efficient way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u38	V.E.G. President. I thank the opening speaker for the discussion and for an excellent talk I recommend to him to send to the mayor of Reykjavík. Thus, in the case of growth, here in Reykjavík, an emergency situation in a human housing market is due to the long - term lack of human resources, and the city authorities in Reykjavík have been moved to support themselves specifically in big business buildings for wealthy people. This is how you can obtain a selection in the city of Reykjavík, which costs 100 to 250 million. I don't think they're going well at first purchases. These apartments are central to the city of Reykjavík, so it's easier for these rich people to get around in Reykjavík on their bicycles. In addition, there are quite some apartments in the Airbnb department that the person who stands here has been fighting desperately for five years that a bond will be established and that will depend on it. All of this results in high prices and high rent prices. At that time, right at the time, it would be good to have a powerful apartment loan. But the camp loan fund has now become a sort of research site, and beyond that, it is a shell alone because some favoriteger's club has walked there like a businessman and has taken care of itself and bought apartments from an apartment loan fund for the last 10 years for 57 billion dollars. These apartments would have been better rented for people with low incomes. So initiation is this amateur club, that we can't be told by members of Congress who order it. The person standing here asked the question in March. About who would have enjoyed these poor-ass apartment loans. No response has been received. The foundation is that low-payers and middle-employers can buy into apartments for the first time, they're reducing the level of money and putting away the insurance. [[The president calls.]] Then maybe we'll get some sense into this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u39	A respectable president. I thank the advisor for calling attention to this urgent matter that we have actually discussed in our last conversation in this fine chamber. A recent report was published by an apartment loan fund that even told us about it. that an apartment price in the capital would have the lowest level in the North, which, in fact, I have to admit was a bit surprising. Nevertheless, rent prices are the highest. It's gonna blow a little bit in my mind. I think it's perfectly clear, and agree to it as the highest. The minister took this to see, that the regulations need to be reviewed when it comes to rented apartments to ensure renting rights. I must nevertheless admit, a respectable president, that I sometimes feel like we speak here as if we could just swing some magic wand and put out a concierge proposal to increase the number of apartments over the thousands, and then it just happens and everybody gets a roof over their heads. I don't believe it's that simple. This market has been unstable for decades. He goes up and down all the time. I think our role here is to look at how, in the long term, we can achieve some stability in the workers' market, with those building these apartments. And maybe, in view of the inquiry that came here to the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture may also be part of the problem that we do not have enough traders in this country. I know what it's like to be trying to get a painter, that's pretty hard. I agree with many of the things that have happened here, but I also think that we should sometimes talk a little more slowly, because we won't be able to solve the situation here by projecting some figure on building so much or that. Our main concern is the box on which we find ourselves. There is certainly a lack of property, and it has been in the capital area. However, I would also like to say that the rural communities around Reykjavík have built a considerable number of apartments in recent years. [[The president calls.]] Then let me just mention that in Mosfellstown, 400 apartments were built in 2017 in 10,000 human society. [[The president calls.]] There is, therefore, much to do in the capital area, and much has been built.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u40	A respectable president. An interesting point is stated in the report by the Substitution of Comparisons of Northern and neighboring nations. An apartment price is low in Iceland compared to a neighboring country, but rent prices and interest are the highest. It also says that living prices are low on the basis of income, but the report says that the President's permission is: In Iceland, this ratio is the lowest of the 39 European countries where the data cover the data, which tells us that living prices in this country are low compared with income. This is very interesting. Not only are apartment prices low in Iceland but apartment prices are low on account of income. At the same time, rent prices are highest. This will take a turn, since people renting for the highest rents of the control countries will not be able to support loans for the same apartment. Let's just stop here and ask ourselves, " What's the problem? Many say that the problem is high in interest and insurance. This is certainly a problem, but what would it do to reduce the rate of growth and get rid of the insurance? If there is something to define this comparison and the experience of our housing market here in the last few decades, prices will increase as growth increases. When there is more room for loans, because prices are low in terms of pay, the market simply uses that amount of space. By reducing interest, people will start taking higher loans, which will then have higher payments than at least will stop us from overindulging in injustice and indiscriminate insurance. Finally, that cost moves into the shelter price. So we stop paying the apartment a lot, the apartment will simply raise the price of what keeps between them. But this is very important in the overall context, since the mortgage, the housing market, and the special policy are the rest of our pension system. If we're back at a pension and we don't have a home, our own property, then the pension income is not gonna do at all. [[The president calls.]] And helping people buy an apartment doesn't help too much, especially in their current situation when they need an apartment on another level, so they too, especially in their present circumstances, to build. [[The president calls.]] It's very simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u41	The president would like to point out that our computer system is in confusion, so even if it dries red, I have the clock in my pocket.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u42	A respectable president. I appreciate this important discussion, as do so many others. It sheds a little light on our lack of overall housing policy. I'm aware that a minister has such a policy in progress in line with the adjustment we made here in spring, and I also hear a minister there that he intends to do a little about the founding system, the general apartments, which is a huge step taken by property and income-low persons. But this system must be fixed only to meet our expectations. Here the opening speaker spoke of the feeling of having a permanent home, a security home. I think there's something we should stop for. We see in surveys that there is heaven between how people experience their home security by the way they live. People living in their own homes will feel safe in 94%. People living in rented homes, more than 50%. Of course, this is unacceptable. We need, and we have to develop a strong tenure that is not the cost of rent renting is not just social resources. Although it was very important that we control the money and property groups and get them into a safe and permanent tenement, it is also so important that we catch the people in lower intermediate groups and from the higher levels, we give them the option not to make a debt of property. I have to, Mr President, because of what. paritaprevir The Njáll Trausti of Friðbertsson was a bit bugged in a symposium earlier, and I might not speak as strongly as he would, speaking of a land - wide policy or a fear - inspiring situation, but he can take comfort in the convergence of the city of Reykjavík and the capital area of all serve the purpose that there will be a viable society for the future. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Here at the best place in the city, we have plenty of construction ground now temporarily under the airport, but we do. þm. Let me tell you something about Trausti Njáll. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u43	The president may remind the speakers to give a talk class. This time 36 seconds was passed over a two - minute talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u44	Mr. President. I'd like to begin my case by thanking for the discussion of fortune - tellers and Ministers and others for sharing in them. Let's just talk about housing security. It is not for weeks since the Minister of Justice confirmed in response to a request from the one mentioned here that in 14,000 families have been driven from their homes in recent years since collapse. That's not under 30,000. Icelandic families, fathers, mothers and children are expelled. It is the security that these people have enjoyed. Should we just shrug our shoulders here, or what? Are we not going to learn from that experience? We're not going to do anything? Aren't we going to react? Are we going to continue the insurance system and the super-growing system? Will we live in a insurance system that robs people of almost financial independence? It's like standing at a depth for people who live with it. As experience shows, it can sink without warning. We're going to have this housing team, which depends on the decisions made in our offices, especially here at the Tiranium, like whatnot. paritaprevir Did Trausti Friðbertsson shave so well in speech? Will we continue to collect from letters where credit institutions cannot show originals? [[The president calls.]] How long will this arrangement last without man's start? I, Mr. President, allow me to call attention to a bill that is being made to all members of the Gang and the Central Party that are being dealt with, the insurance policy, in a wider and wider way than previously seen. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u45	The president still reminds members of Congress to give a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u46	President. It is proper to recall that under the direction of the State's Environment, four departments and all rural areas of the capital were involved in some measures to solve the problem of housing with a higher supply, a reduction in construction costs, and the harmonization of rural living programmes. In that government a 14 - step plan was put forward, so it is proper to ask the highest question. A minister may not be working largely on this strategy yet, as there is no need to invent the wheel every time a new minister sits in the Ministry. There were various points in this program that I hope a minister can assure the United Nations that there is still work to be done. Is government housing policy being won, as the previous government planned? It was to be based on the agreement between housing plans in the capital area and on population growth. It also suggested a simple work on construction projects that would make changes in the laws of workers and building regulations aimed at reducing the cost of building that should be returned to lower prices. Where are these suggestions? I'd like to quote your ex. Secretary of Social Affairs and Equality, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, who said, on this project: ▪ The aim of the project is to prevent this from happening again and to speed it up that we can balance the housing market again. We intend that by this action we can speed up the return of the real estate market so that by means of this action it would be balanced around the year 2019.156. You should ask the highest. Current Minister: When will the Minister's balance be reached?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u47	Mr. President. No, no, no. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Ísafasunsson, we are not going to talk about hyperplasia and insurance in the eye of maintaining it. But is it not time for us to start discussing the disease only but not always the symptoms? These senators can come up here all the time and talk about a solution that will solve everything without realizing the consequences. Then let's go with a what? paritaprevir Steindór Valdímdar's Valdimarsson, and we'll discuss the cause, and we'll discuss the crown, and we'll talk to the currency. I'm not afraid of that discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, I spoke of the fact that we weren't swinging some magic wand. However, we need to create a permanent market that makes it possible for a certain part of the apartment market to be in a way that does not always produce a formidable situation when we land because of an unstable currency down to the waves. Let's just go talk about the disease and stop talking about symptoms. I felt a bright tone, Mr. President, in a minister's speech, but there is, of course, a need for tangible action. It's interesting to know that he's dealing with the Finnish route, but ASI's been picking up more funding for stock making, in vain. And as for the Swiss way, the provision of pension savings, the special savings is only the most beneficial reason for the population and pension savings is not to be a place for venture capital investments. ASI has opposed this Swiss route. I think we need to discuss only how to achieve a stable economic environment in this country before we begin to encourage people to spend all their pensions in the house. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I reiterate a previous question, the highest. The minister did not answer: Is he willing to take advantage of all the rural areas in this country to carry out their duties when it comes to the construction of social housing, or is he going to leave it to any rural society in the country? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u48	A respectable president. As soon as I give my compliments. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for a pretty good entropy speech at the beginning was sad to see him fall into the euro right here at the end because I don't think the euro is what solves the housing problem in Iceland. I'd like to start by saying that I've found this discussion to be extremely good. I think in this room, there's a lot more harmony than maybe a lot of people think. We've got to get it through here that we're going to work long-term, we're gonna slow down the poles, we're working on it, we've got a lot of rural society already working on housing plans. In a new law adopted on the Congregation Book Bank of the Last Parliament, it was just agreed that rural areas in common employment areas would work together on housing plans. We need to be increasingly looking for the capital area to begin working together on these issues. I think that's probably gonna answer that question. The senator that as soon as they work together, everyone must do his part, land, and so forth. [[No, no.]] But even if we were to make a big deal of offers on property, not just in Reykjavík but in other rural areas, the market has shown that it has not been able to solve the problem of housing itself in this country. Therefore, we need much more social solutions at the same time. We need measures for the first buyers, we're working on it. We also need a much stronger rent - related adverse market, and we are working on it, both directly at the state of the State through the apartment loans and in our conversation with local communities and with the labour market partners. Although the market is good and is good for certain, it is not by itself able to solve the housing problem in Iceland. Therefore, the government should intervene because of the welfare issues involved. They become a matter of well - being, and we should look at them as a matter of welfare. That's the approach this government has to this suit. It is tremendously good and positive to take the conversation here at the council as often as possible on these matters, and I welcome it every time. Thank you. A senator for a good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u49	President. I recommend a bill on deck. 144, No. 144, too. It consists of new overall fishing fees, which will replace the current legal structure of the same material that goes out for the next year. In the beginning of this history, I want to cover the goals and prehistory of fishing costs in the fishing road. It's the first one to take 1st. The bill: To meet the State's costs in research, management, control and management of fishing and fishing work, and to ensure the land's overall direct and visible share in the production of crops. I'm not talking about legends, in recent times, but I'm not going to do it this time. However, I'd like to point out that there is a debate about the resource costs in seawater space at least to the time when they were reached in the independence struggle of the nation of Israel, which was an export of the economic law of 200 miles. President of Iceland, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, finishes a book he wrote on the treason issue to refer to the words of Gunnar H. Ólafsson, commander of the Motive Guard. Gunnar wrote in the summer of 1978 that the fourth cod war could be said to be the sea, the idea of growing back half-infested fish stocks around the country. The big difference between this cod war and the first, however, would be that the nation was now not united anymore. Rather, it was against a brother who cared for the interests of interests and brother. If victory was not won in that war, all other victories in the holy language would be wasted. I'm not going to try to trace it here from the historical history of fishing over the past two decades in the next century. The prime sign was how to reduce overinvest, to encourage convenience, and to increase production in this article. They put great pressure on the individual companies and settlements of the country, such as most Icelanders know, and they created a great deal of intense debates that are still exhaling. However, as a result of the policy, Iceland has achieved a standard of living in Europe. It is worth reviewing now, talking about this matter, for if it weren't for a thriving fishing road in this country, there would be no fishing fees to distribute. There would simply be no change. It is only after the turn of the century that fish catchers are becoming significant, as shown by Iceland's Habitat for the benefit of fishing and processing reports. Then, when a happy phase has been reached, it can result in a political discussion that is increasingly involved in the use of marine resources. The focus of the bill I read earlier was made in a physical way by a so - called resource committee that worked at the turn of the century and was appointed representatives of all the political parties that were then at the council. This was slightly explained by the bill, but the committee concluded that the use of the marine resource could contribute to the level of control of fish fishing, which would be determined by means of a means of living conditions. From the moment I took the office of a seafaring minister, I have come to know how difficult this matter is, i.e. how difficult it is to make a suggestion on how to determine the price of fishing. Perhaps in the past ten years, there have been repeated openings in the council and making changes that have sometimes led to a number of disputes. This bill has been prepared to learn from the experience that has developed by this process. My primary objective with the bill I recommend here is to try to ensure that clear, predictable, and understandable measures of decision-making and the stress of hunting costs. This enables us to look for long periods of time and ensure the stability of our country's basic working roads. It is my hope that this bill can promote this, that while interests and opinions vary, there are yet differing grounds for an agreement in good brotherhood here at the council, or we may say rather well in the spirit of a new era and in both cases. A respectable president. Now, I'm going to step on the bill's main subject. The bill suggests that the calculus of each year's hunting fees is based on goods, or fish stocks, of each species. Instead of being used for information on the pure profits of fishing and the processing of the Haguer, data will be available to determine the calculus based on tax information on fishing. The information will be collected, so companies will return it to the tax manager while on their regular tax returns. It has been sought to perform this process so that it will not be seriously burdensome by the information provided by Fishing Office, the fishery and the resources of each ship, will be transferred electronically to the tax reports. The calculation of the bill and the method used to determine it and divide it to individual isolates will be by means of the bill's method, more transparent and more easily understood than the base of the current law. An in-depth article for the law's algorithm is given in the bill, and I refer to more of it. But in particular, I want to know that with the new formula, we've been trying to make a difference for the abnormal fluctuations that have developed through the present system. The main reason for this is that commercial fishing has even been the case. Reassessments of the value of loans have resulted in substantial revenue or remuneration, which is only binding and may be inconsistencies with the trends in the marine environment, such as known by man. By obtaining tax reports, we also manage to reduce the time spent in the management of information generated in the calculus. It has the greatest significance that the bill suggests that fishing fees will be set at the end of the year to apply for the next calendar wound rather than be decided at the end of August to apply for the coming fishing year. A good cooperation has been made in preparing the bill for the office of the head of state tax, which will take on a very larger task if the bill is legal. It is suggested that hunting fee management be carefully simplified, including ... withtheexcellence of a special committee of hunting fees, the hunting commission. I would like to, however, to know here that a hunting committee has been among the Ministry's advisors in preparing the bill. The bill suggests that the currency rate of hunting fees by the calculator is 33%, which is the same currency as the current law. This suggests that the cost of fishing costs will take into account the weight of the road average fishing fee as the proportion of behind the calculated calculus of the bill prior to 2009 -2018. A comment may be made that the total cost of fishing during 2009 is less than 64 billion dollars. but would have received the same amount of money, or actually a slightly higher money, if a bill had been in force at the same time. This may be said to be based on the General's decisions for hunting in those years, which have been a major year in Icelandic society, such as we know so well here in this hall. I'd like to emphasize that this method is neither a lower nor an increase in hunting costs. The difference in cost of fishing between year and year at the time of the reduction of the pay ratio as well as in the next few years, if the bill is legally the law, will be determined by both the management information on fishing and the fish that are fishing every time in Iceland. The bill suggests that the so - called free market for hunting costs will remain unchanged, but in 3 mg. Section 6. That's what the bill says. It says that each subject pays 20% of the first 4.5 million. K. The stress of fishing costs and 15% of the next 4.5 million. K. the piece of paper. The purpose of this principle is to address the viewpoints of the different impact of fishing costs on land and water markets as well as small and medium-sized companies, such as the legal basis at the time. I'm aware that the views have been influenced to add to this individual holiday goal. We have no information, however, that the recovery rate in the last two years was higher in small and medium-sized cultures than in the larger. It may also be asked, " Is there any reasonable reason that all who enjoy access to fishing may contribute to the country's share? ' I'd like to mention for this reason, and as a result of what I've previously reported on the figures of the bill, that it is suggested to record the value of the total requisitions by 10% in calculation of the calculating factors. This is because in recent years fishing costs have been calculated specifically and have been absorbed into the population by a higher proportion of profits in the production of seawaters than in bottom-water production. Because only the result of fishing is to use a different order on the surrogacy, while bottom fish populations should obtain the same amount from behind the calculated bill ten years in advance of these groups of the seabed. This bill suggests that fishing costs will be sensitive to the survival of fish fish at one time. Sadly, in the past two years, the survival of fishing companies has been quite delayed, as I have been involved in my speech. In this regard, both the strong gangs of the Crown and the adverse development of the factors that have formed the base of the fishing fee, including Oil and pay. This is further explained in an explanation of the bill, but it appears that in the coming years, the income of the state's budget will be reduced to between 6 and 8 billion dollars. in the next few years unless there is a reversal in the environment. provisional regulations at the bill include a table designed to set the price for fishing in 2019 C.E. Because of the changes that the bill will bring to the data collection of the government tax manager and the time expected by the Council to take to cover the bill, it is necessary to provide such a table. According to the 2019 Icelandic shipping budget, the budget of the state's budget for fishing can be estimated from 2019 to over 7 billion dollars. the bill is the law. This is in harmony with the government budget as well as the bill for next year's budget. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to call to the attention of a body of Congress that this October I will visit ten rural communities all over the country to discuss, including: this bill and fishing business in general. I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen, whether in a government or in a position of government, to attend meetings and to listen to the viewpoints that will appear there and after events take part in the discussion. It's very important for us senators to take a conversation like this all over the country and I'll send it to each other. As these meetings are nearing its arrival, members of the council are conducting a meeting session. As for the bill, I would like to refer to the other comments that follow in this regard, which are discussed in detail and given an explanation for its contents. After this discussion, I then suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u50	Mr. President. In the discussion section of an existing bill, a very short chapter, chapter 5, it is stated that there was no time to open up a discussion about the bill at the administrative level, but it is assumed that the General Professional Commission will conduct such a procedure during the conference treatment of the bill. All right. I attended the most brilliant presentation of the Ministry of Presidency on the Board of Directors in the billmaking industry. It showed that there is a need for specific arguments not to be introduced into the cross - language puzzle. Among the reasons why this may be possible is that a matter has been particularly urgent. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why could the progress of the case not be waited for two or three weeks so that such consultation could have been carried out? The lesson also states, by permission of the president: ▪ During the preparation of the bill, the viewpoints of the main employment stakeholders and carers in the marine future were known and used for discussion with the management and preparation of the bill. But I ask, "When and how did these views become known to a minister? " I also ask if a minister has had informal consultations with stakeholders or parties associated with them in preparing the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u51	A respectable president. It is true that this bill did not open up, and there are various reasons. It worked a little slower than I would have chosen. The Constitution and the Ministry's work for the summer expected this bill to come to the council in September, to be of short duration. I think this bill is very urgent, for the particular reason that the current law was extended to us temporarily this year and we need a new set of fishing fees on January 1 next year. Congress needs time, it shows us, to work with the hunting fees. The agreement and viewpoints of key stakeholders are simply present, even if only during spring discussion and development. No informal consultation has taken place between me and my stakeholders. A senator can handle this. This is done by the head of state tax, the Ministry of finance, the Fish Service, the Hunting Commission, and then the Ministry's employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u52	Mr. President. Let's go on with the legal process. On a Tuesday Kast Light Show, it was the highest. To this end, a minister asked that the calculus of fishing fees would have been a percentage of pure profits in fishing and partial profits in fishing. The fish farm should now be taken out, the cost would not be in agriculture, and if not largely larger productions were available. V.E.G. In his reply, a minister said that he was not sure. He and his department would have had no overview of that. Now I also know that assessment of the effects of legislation should be conducted before the bill is submitted. So I can't find a place in the bill's report to evaluate the impact of this bill for mediums and smaller verses of larger productions. Would it not have been right to ask for such food? Will a minister take such an estimate, considering how this change affects memory and so larger?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u53	A respectable president. The question I received contained a statement that I said was unable to answer with any reliable information. There is a set of estimates in the spring through the construction of marine export companies that demonstrate that, no matter what size, the fishing industry or the fishing exports, they are similar to the percentage. We have, as I had in the past, found no evidence in this work that the survival of individual formulations is getting worse more than others. In case of a moment. A senator examines the bill, and she sees that the algorithm is determined by the survival of every kilogram of fish, no matter who picks up the fish. The person who does so is buying access to the resource, and the government intends to pay for it, as well as share in the survival of its produce.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u54	President. Thank you very much. Minister for an excellent review of this big case that will be discussed here today's lung of the day. But I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to kill especially on two things. In my first answer, I'd like to discuss only this methodology with the prices, the currency itself. This is shown in the bill, in the report, as well as in the case of the highest. Minister to the hunting fee depends on management information and raise volumes. So we're talking about how it's still, based on how business information is determined, being holding political property on the price of marine products rather than on letting the market go. So I ask the minister here the first time: little of the market catch and the prices will depend on the results? [[The president calls.]] If it was an option but doesn't come into this bill, why was it? And if that were not possible and were not examined, I would be just as interested in hearing why it was not being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u55	A respectable president. These were many questions for fishing and markets. First, I'm going to answer the short question about it: It wasn't checked. It is not expected in the Government Treaty of this government to pop up the fishing system, but I'll have a debate. A senator at any time on market or auction, and so on. I just want to draw attention to the fact that in this bill the market is expected to be a catch. The information is derived from databases on the value of commercial fish and what basis is there for the calculation of seamen's share and development. This is official information on prices in countries. It is our market price. This is a collection of open markets or companies or anything. This is the information delivered to the head of state tax by the Fish Room, signed on the front pages, and should be able to give a good picture of the value under which they are concerned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u56	I appreciate the answer, accept it with gratitude, and assume that we will have a meaningful discussion on the subject. I'd rather discuss a temporary source or rather than just a lack of a comment about temporary sources. An article with the bill does not acknowledge that this is temporary or repetitive. I have a simple question: Do a minister agree that in the face of natural use, it is normal that in the absence of time limits and contrast, there is no temporary requirement, this is a temporary innovation - is the payment for the use of the resource higher than if there were a temporary resource? And also, so I repeat earlier: Did this bill have a discussion with the process of setting some provision for temporary use into it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u57	A respectable president. No, it wasn't discussed. We're primarily discussing new fishing fees. The usefulness and access permissions into the resource are not part of the resource and have not been used. It's in a special law that just calls them to a global confiscation of fish control laws. We haven't been in that place. We've been focusing primarily on the currency and already the what. A senator points out whether it is normal for me to believe that a non-term renewal warrant would require a higher payment: Surely a valid argument can be presented. To the other viewpoints too. But I believe that the payer in this bill, about 33% of the remaining amount, is considerably high. When we look at others, even if it was just a mention of the income tax, we are involved in these products over a 40% tax rate, and this may not seem enough. [[The president calls.]] I share totally views with someone who thinks this is a considerably high percentage.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u58	Mr. President. Why should the general council determine the price of fish? Why should we make that decision here in this room? Why do we not let the market rule as we do when we choose the price of another product? Is it not best to use the market law when deciding a special fee for the use of a limited resource, and to extend the patents and exports of the invitations by setting rules that take into account the basis, preventing compression and respecting the particular status of my output? One of the advantages of an offer or a tax paid for financial exchanges is that it is automatically swinging by exploitable fish and reduces the likelihood of political intervention on the basis of rent prices. This is a transparent, predictable, understandable route that is widely experienced in business. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Why should we generals decide the price of fish?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u59	A respectable president. I'd like to make it clear that the general council doesn't decide the price of fish. They have not done so in the current system and will not do so in the system we speak here. I just don't think it's true here, and I'm waiting. A senator's reasoning on the basis of how it will come to the conclusion that this sounds as if the senators are going to settle over the price of fish. The price of fish, according to this bill, will attack the market, and the application will depend on the information the governor receives from the market. Can this get any better? A decision and a discussion about rent or auction, or a god knows what, is everything else. That's a completely illogical statement, isn't it? A senator, saying that we should sit here in this respectable and good hall, arguing about the price of cod enough to be 200 bucks. 201K, that's not what it's about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u60	Mr. President. It's a bill. It's a TV. A minister is about the prerequisite for the price of fish, and we're the ones setting them criteria, and at the same time we're working with the price. In April, May, June, and August this year, a total of 15% of the Faeroe Islands were bid out for dinner, and the result was this, a pound of cod, which went on at 38.7 in Iceland. The bill we discuss now assumes that a pound of cod goes to 13.8 k. The difference is 180% and the cod is caught by the Faeroes in distant tickets, Russia, Svalbard and Norway, in the Barents Sea, but we do not charge fishing fees for fish caught there, so it is not supposed to be changed by the highest standard bill. Secretary of the sea. A bit of coal, on the deliveries of the Faeroe Islands, went to 1,444% higher price than expected in this bill and the macroon 2,432% higher than expected in this bill. This will have to be explained and not the highest. A minister agreed with me that this shall require him and his ministry to explain that it will not only be left to the deportation? The assets of the resource need to be explained on this massive difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u61	A respectable president. Owners of the resource, which, by the definition, are the nation. The senator is required to determine the price. You're absolutely right. But I ask, when we compare with the Faeroe Islands, why doesn't the Faeroes begin to offer cod permission in their own jurisdiction? They don't take a dollar for him there. Why not if it's so damn good? Why don't people start where they're from? How is it that the Icelandic cod population is 264,000 tons and 10,000 tons of fish? Isn't there something in our relationship with the resource that has created us this unique position and that in Iceland's land - of - the - world fishing industry? Is it that bad? It does not matter whether environmental factors, prices, or innovation are discussed in the industry. Icelandic fishing exports in all areas out of control, and here people are talking about us going to destroy that system. It's not on the agenda for this government. [[The point is: nobody's talking about destroying the system.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u62	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers into these small and medium-sized structures. There are a lot of good things in this bill, and I think we're getting close to being at peace with it for a long time, that we're close to getting off-limits and real information and are taking a good step before the delivery of this article. However, the Haggis already registers six categories of fishing and processing. It can be seen from data that the results of an organization are quite different. I would like to hear a minister's attitude: Can't you look to a different source of living? The size specificity is present in this largest population. Is it not proper to examine this bill in the processing of the committee with their eyes?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u63	A respectable president. You can totally examine all these factors. I'm perfectly willing to do that. What I said in my history, however, was that we have no evidence that the survival of a single organization or a pattern is getting worse beyond that. What I would like to emphasize is this: We'll discuss access to resource. When we have it, it is reasonable for everyone to pay evenly for permission to get there. That must be reasonable and reasonable. Then, when we look at some particular model, whether it's the ocean-fisher or the crill guy, we have to put it together with other factors that they hear. Then we must have reason that some particular category is superior to that of others. All I ask is that we have the logical support clear. So far, we haven't had him. [[The president calls.]] And it is a consistent rule that leads to a 20% off the rate of hunting. You might ask yourself: Is that enough or not? And if we are to change it, we need to back it up in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u64	Mr. President. I don't think there's going to be any lack of evidence in these cases. Of course, it will be called for the support of the job committee. For example, the largest of these types are collected for their raw materials. The bullfish, far into the middle, usually larger and better cod, and the price for each kilogram is much higher. Smaller species need to be closer to shore, and more often than not, we get less cod, perhaps less raw materials, and we get lower prices on the fish markets. There are figures that average prices, e.g. cod doesn't reflect any index used in the algorithm for display. This can remember a lot, maybe 160 bucks. a kilometer of cod, or cod, of small types, where the weight price can go well over 200 bucks. with the big ones, with good raw materials from the oceans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u65	A respectable president. Yeah, that's just the way it is. But there is also a counterargument in that subject, asking: If we want to make the most of the resource and get the most out of it, should we not simply focus on getting as the biggest and best fish? Doesn't that come best for everyone? They have concluded that it is wrong, that it should mix. As a result, we see that the state is one of the largest producers in the country with 32,000 tons of money under the market. 5.3% of all export permissions are there, including to face the impacts and to encourage and support the settlements of the country in addition to this holiday goal. All I'm saying and wanting to reiterate is that if we're going to snooze and change, I demand that we do so with an open mind, reason, and differ from individuals or companies with some ambiguous action that we don't fully reason in the treatment of the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u66	Mr. President. I asked the highest. Sea dignitary and agricultural ministers earlier, to see why we generals should determine the price of fish. He reacted badly and said that we were not doing at all. But it's wrong at the highest. Minister. In each article after the second in this bill, which is presented here for discussion, and will then be agreed on, perhaps changed, from the job station committee, are set down criteria, some in numbers, and others in the standards. So here we are, in this room, deciding the price of a fish. Why do we not let the market rule as we do when the price is determined on another product? That's a question we have to answer. That's what the Entreys do. And get three times higher price for the kilogram on cod than this bill assumes. In fact, if the bill is the law, the fishing costs for a kilogram of cod are reduced by 40% between 2018 and 2019 years. The spider would remove less than 22 bucks. for less than 14 bucks. It is of utmost importance to a nation whose economy is as dependent on the use of natural resources as Icelanders make direct money of their usefulness. The best way to determine a special license for the use of a limited resource is to use the market laws and to extend the patents and tenders by setting rules that take into account the basis, prevent compression, and respect the specification of my tools. And all of this is possible. It is focused on using bids at a market when a particular species of fish is introduced or added to the fish farms as proposed by the Institute of Marine Research. The cost of fishing is unlikely to be reached until it is established on market grounds. And one of the advantages of the offer is that rent fees paid for financial exchanges are automatically flung by commercial fishing and reducing the likelihood of political intervention for rent prices. That way is transparent, predictable, understandable, but highest. A minister feels that it is important that the road that is targeted is important. In fact, it is enough to take a portion of the quota and ask it out for a reference price. The assets of the resource have the right to obtain a reference price at this price for the general council members to determine with the terms of the bill. Thus, the amount of rent price is not based on estimating decisions, as expected in the bill we address here and the owner of the resource, the people of the country, can be confident that one person is not being lenient above another. The budget itself determines the cost of access to the resource by means of market oers, and it also prevents braking with quathane. Also, because political whims do not control the demand for future changes from one term to the next, the offer is sustained for long - term environment. There will be more room within the system with available markets and innovations that will provide the most advanced opportunities for the drivers, old or new. In the implementation of an offer, it is easy to take into account localities, prevent compression, and respect my specific eutrophication. Experience from an available means of distribution of resources is widespread around the world. It is easy to look to neighboring nations, such as the Faeroe Islands and the Norwegians, for good examples. As I pointed out earlier in answer to the highest. In April, May, June, and August, this year, a total of 15% of the Armomen in the Faeroe Islands were invited by a minister to say goodbye. The result was: The cod farm went to 38.7 Icelandic C.E., i.e. It's 180% higher than expected in the bill. Actually, there's a catch in the Barents, where we don't expect any hunting fees, either in this bill. It's all about the fishing here at Iceland or the home center. A kroner of the coal was sent out to the Entires at 8.8 k. ... buta billtop. A seafaring minister assumes that the state collects 57 dollars. That's a big difference of 1,444%. A piece of mackerel took the deliveries to 89.9k. ... butmost. A sea emissary suggests that Icelanders collect $3.55. The difference is 2,432%. It's such a big difference that it's totally unacceptable to let it lie blurred. That's why it's going to be the best. Minister to see that the Ministry experts explain this difference. The people on the quadan. It is in the law, and it has repeatedly confirmed the Supreme Court. We can change the system whenever we want. It takes only the decision of the Generals to do so. Mr. President. If the right course is to correct the offer of injustice, which means that there will be few profit from economic management, while the inhabitants of the marine region have the expense and the ease of innovation in this article. Fish markets in Iceland are good models for marketing solutions. In the United States, fish and fish are bought at commercial prices every day. They don't have any other business insurance but tomorrow's bid market will be active. After the trade has taken place, there is no debate about fish prices in a fish market. All of the land's fish industry has equal access to fish markets. Thus, innovation in fish farming is much easier than fishing. It is important to discern the difference between fishing and processing. Fishing doesn't pay for fishing and never has. The increase or reduction in fishing costs has no effect on fish management. Only a quantity of fish are involved in supplying fish for fish and on fish prices, since the price of catch fish is free. Just fishing costs do not affect how many fish are withdrawn from the sea; they do not affect the price of fish. The fish industry, however, is affected by its wings and rhythms. V.E.G. In their introductions yesterday, a seafaring minister stressed that hunting should pay the price, not the industry. This is a misapprehensible presentation, since industry has never paid hunting fees. However, the cost of fishing has been weighed down. This was done to avoid developing incentives for making companies to shift profits to the process and thus affect the reduction of hunting costs. But now that this trigger is gone, it may be real, and pressure may develop from all preparations, that those who have an opportunity to increase their profits in the processing process, as well as lower fishing costs and less pay for sailors. This is especially important when making these changes. President. Now, those assigned to eat dinner can put a full catch fee in their own pockets by selling and renting a salad to a third party. For example, last year's 170 cents had to be paid for large donations. for a kilo of cod, while the government collects only 22 cents. Hunting fees. You see, there's a bid on labour clearances in Iceland. It's just not controlled by government. The benefits do not run into a government fund but, rather, into the pockets of builders, who rent out the goods that the State has assigned to them. The results of the Marine Research Agency from the establishment of bottom feeders in Iceland show that between 2014 and 2015, which were found in 2018 and 2018, are at long-term averages, and therefore, the reference population is expected to grow. The results of the baseline analysis are an important factor in the annual assessment of the European Medicines Agency's needs for use in the country and the measures taken in March 2016 indicate the benefits of best bottom species and prospects for increased recruitment in the fishing stocks and in the future fish fishing years. Ten years ago, the codfish was 124,000 tons, but now it is more than 264,000 tons. Thus, 140,000 tons have been replaced by about 5%, which now enters the town's population. The fishing system needs to be transformed into its entire body. But it is possible to take immediate steps in the right direction. The cod was increased three years ago by some 21,000 tons; the last year was about 5,000 tons of fish; last year, about 14,000 tons of fish were fished; and some 6,000 tons were fished for the current fishing year. The World Health Organization's assessment suggests that in the coming fishing years, the dinner will still be increased. If an oceanographic agency proposes a supplementary parvote, the adjustment of the law should be so that the increase can be made. Why should we also extend the additional box on a silver plate and the largest of the items of a brother? They certainly do not suffer want. Mr. President. You don't have to put all the dinners in an invitation at once. It's never been the Conspiracy's proposal. Smaller steps, e.g. Offering supplementary parvote or part of the quatane to obtain a reference price for the hunting fees. I encourage us to gather together and provide enough money to obtain the reference price for the fishing fees. So, what do we have to endure? A clear system is called. The invitation is clear and much more transparent than the suggestions we are discussing today. As long as the dinner isn't out, we need, in my opinion, at least to raise the fishing costs to bigger companies. I suggest that there will be a 50% rate of sources over 5,000 tons and that the funds that would be available would be used to strengthen our country's habitats for its varied work structure. It is of utmost importance to a nation whose economy is as economically based on the use of natural resources as Icelanders make direct money of their usefulness. A national agreement on the subject of a new constitution from October 2012 revealed the nation's urgent support for the provision of lasting natural resources, that the right to use it would be set up for a period of time against the ultimate and objective taxation. They need to follow this conclusion and introduce a comprehensive resource policy on the basis of sustainable development so that they benefit from their resources. Mr. President. I haven't been to some of the elements of the bill in every detail. I haven't been out to see exactly what's to draw from the entire price to form the trunk to calculate the fishing fee. There are both variable costs but also high costs. There are interest rates and investments. All of this needs to be examined, and a professional health committee has to review how much of the resource resources flows to the nation. Is that 33%? Maybe it's only 20%? When we were working on the bill in 2012, the General agreed that the resources of the resource would bring more than 60% of the nation's resources, that the excess produced by the resource would become a wealth of government funds, but still, the arrangement and the nation would share that. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u67	A respectable president. I just have to admit that I don't quite understand what road trip. The senator is. When we discuss that the nation's share in the survival of the project is not high enough, I wonder why. A member of the council what changes have occurred since then. A senator served the minister of finance. That is exactly the same share as it already was. So a senator held an office. I'd also like to ask, "Do you know what I mean? " A senator arranges and wishes to be raised, e.g. Hunting charge in a mackerel? Granted, he's overwhelmed. That's what I'm talking about. A senator talking about 2,000 percent, as mentioned here? Which way is it going? Senator? I ask for evidence to argue that this bill expects members of the Parliament to decide the price of fish. The basis is set, so the cost is withdrawn from a high value. The value is set up by the Fish Room to the government tax manager. [[The president calls.]] Congress has nothing to do with that. What kind of reasoning is that? A senator of this false record?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u68	Mr. President. I only argue by reading the bill where members of the Parliament are asked to determine the criteria for calculating fish guards. [[Fiery to fish.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u69	Fiery to fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u70	The price that the people receive for the fish. That's exactly what we're working with here, exactly what we get out when we read this bill. I'm just asking the highest. Secretary of the opposite: has the highest. Ministers have it calculated, or do you know what the rate of hunting would be today if the 2012 law was fully valid? So, what would be the fishing fee today? It expected that the share of the nation's resources would rise in step. What would that cost be? And to be completely clear at the highest. I suggest that we go to markets and ask her what she's willing to pay for the weight of mackerel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u71	A respectable president. I'll call attention to what. A senator's objection to questions raised. But just to answer the question, I have not been to calculate the impact of a bills taken from me by a different law. There's just no time for that, fortunately, I say in many cases. Hv. A senator will be very much aware of the quality of this System in the Faeroe Islands and will discuss at the same time the need for innovation here: What has become a major recruitment in the design of skilled sources? What are the Entires offering up a large portion of their cod warrants that they alone have? Who is calculated by macroil in the New World Translation during the past two years? A senator is talking about raising a lot of things up here? I expect all of this information to exist when it comes to stating the facts presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u72	Mr. President. By means of a fishing campaign there's a chance for a new recruit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u73	It's...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u74	It may well be that no new invitation has been made to the Faeroe Islands. I don't know what the last invitation is, but I know it wasn't new parties who offered the carbons and the mackerels. [[Two?]] However, it was possible. But it's not an option here. What I'm stressing here is that deliveries get a much higher price for the bidder than are being suggested by this bill. The relative difference is thousands. What a marvelous difference we, the owners of the resource, have to understand. We need an explanation for this. Of course, the simplest thing to do is to use the outing route, even if only for a reference price. [[The president calls.]] Then we wouldn't have to argue about these things here, we'd get a price. And the way out is transparent, understandable and effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u75	The president again appeals to members of the Parliament to respect speech class. Up again, I'm gonna try a little bit when it's five seconds past the time of hammering a little harder. It will damage the talk, but it will be a little loose now. Today, let us try these new features and see if they will not be brought back to the proper speaking time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u76	Mr. President. How interesting it was to listen to a talk! Senator. For the most part, her discussion was about something completely different than the bill so that the talk was, in many principle, about making a complete poaching of the present fishing system. Let it wait a while. What I want to ask you is why. The senator's claim on this bill is a little further taken up by her, that there are members of the council making a decision on the price of fish. How does she make it come together? I'd like to ask her where the price of this bill is for a fish. Where in the current law are fish prices being set? I think there's a miscommunication at the time. Senator. They're making a price here. They're making tax decisions here. This is not the case when it comes to deciding a tax percentage of valuable tax taxes that the government is deciding on the price of goods. It's not like that. We're setting a currency here, not a price for fish. He's attacking a free, open international market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u77	Mr. President. Maybe I should have been a little more specific. We senators are expected to determine the price of fish that the nation receives. [[Foreground on: No.]] For example, there is a provision for a temporary price on a long, deep, gray, and golden plate. Besides that, there are special requirements in parsity. ... fora whale. There are all kinds of reasons for weighting and evaluating valuable things, e.g. herrings, furs, carbons, and macroils There's a set of algorithms. Of course, this bill is full of grounds and numbers we're supposed to agree with, or not, that determine the price of hunting and thus the price of what the nation receives for the fish. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u78	Mr. President. We're here to discuss reimbursement, i.e. The price the government will collect from the taxpayers. It'll even come. ... insignificanceof a coin, a dollar a pound. Hv. A senator has worked as a minister of finance, and he has likely come to realize that the decision of various petals who go to form oil, tobacco, and alcohol is not being made at every price, and the government is to determine what it will take. But it has been discovered that all of this is based on misunderstandings. Another statement in a single speech. The senator drew my attention, i.e. that the bill is full of ecstatic decisions. I ask: What estimating decisions are these exactly different than that the state has a principle to set the currency, to decide who are currency, and to determine currency? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u79	A respectable president. There's a lot of ecstatic things here -- the highest. The minister reviewed it in his introductions - even though it's not just this rate, 33%. It is determined by some mental objective assessment of the past ten years. [[Up front.]] For the first two years, there was not even a real hunt fee. This ratio is chosen to be used for the past ten years. There's more estimating elements on the bill that I know about. A senator knows well because he came to the deal. All these factors need to be reviewed by a professional health committee. [[The president calls.]] What is normal, and what is normal? [[The president calls.]] It is recognized, and it is expected that we generals will appreciate it. We decide to choose a route when there is a better way, which is to provide resources. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a way in every business - except when it comes to sharing the best quality in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u80	The president continues to respect the speech period, and he wants to mention to people who observe at home that this bell sounds offered by Oddný New G. Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u81	A respectable president. I agree with the basics of a lawsuit. paritaprevir The Harðardóttir of Oddný, in fact, was not in the talk she now gave, but in the talk that she gave as the highest. In June 2012, a minister of finance, when we gave them a bill for hunting, when it was at the highest level. The government of the left green and the Convergence sat. That's what they said. A senator, then secretary of finance, by permission of a president: ▪ When a dollar is strong, the rate of fishing returns less in the box, but in turn, the status of the Kingdom treasure is usually better when the dollar gets stronger. In this way, the fishing policy can be considered to be an equality in terms of government funds, and it also adjusts the operations of the industrial companies to lower fluctuations, so that we could say that it is a normal foundation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she's completely changed her mind from what she said there, that this is a normal foundation, and, like, because I understand her language a little bit, that's all, the evaluable thing is just about the percentage. [[The president calls.]] Would she be happy if the percentage was higher than 33%?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u82	Mr. President. I'd be happier if I had a higher percentage of the resources in the state fund. Because of the excess resources, all objects have been withdrawn and are calculated as natural profit or average profit. This is more important. When we worked with the bill 2012, when I was the financial minister, we tried to find out who the resource was. We wanted more of it to grow into a government fund. Of course, as this fishing fee is to be done, the blanks of the world are swinging by the manner in the article. It's a means of living, it's a profit too, so it's a means of living, and so it's also a resource lot. [[The president calls.]] We took the second best route in 2012, the best way to supply our resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u83	A respectable president. I'll admit I don't understand what I'm saying. A senator now, but I did six years ago. She's found this bill all she wants, but now it seems to me, it's about percentage destabilization. I'm not going to have a talk about the whole fishing system, like a lot of talk at each other. The senator went in, but what? A senator has spoken a lot about the Faeroe Islands, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to discuss the system there. I agree that it is very exciting to observe what is being done, not just in the Faeroe Islands, but in many other places in general regarding the fishing road, payment, and other factors related to it. You can't take a part of the Equatorial system and say it's the perfect system, so we must expect ourselves to watch our system as a whole. Wants to play. A senator that we take up the procedure Moven to collect a price of fish stocks where, as noted, no hunting fees are paid within their own jurisdiction? [[The president calls.]] Wants to play. A senator that we're going all the way to pick up the Entire System?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u84	Mr. President. To be perfectly clear, I want a higher percentage of the resources to run to the nation than is expected in this bill. That's absolutely clear. I've been talking for auctiones at labor warrants because it's clear, understandable, efficient, and normal in business. I've talked about it, like the left greens have actually made in their policy, that the catch part, 1/3 if I remember right from the left green policy, is put in the market, 1/3 is in the old system, and 1/3 is based on. If we're offering some of our resources, we're going to get tax price, then everybody's gonna have to tell the truth. It is the price of the fishing industry that they trust to pay for a pound of fish. [[The president calls.]] I want us to offer some of the resources, as the Faeroes did. I'm not talking about all their fishing systems. They have offered food supplies, they have received a much higher price, and we need to explain how it is and why we do not like them in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u85	A respectable president. Hv. Harðardóttir This whole matter is, as she puts it, that they get a higher percentage of their resources, it goes to the people, but it's assumed here. So I ask, as some others have asked, " What does the ratio have to be? ' So, are we just talking about that it should be not 33% of what remains but some other proportion? That's a question I'd like to repeat. Otherwise, there was a speech. Not about this hunting bill, but about the whole fishing business, and there are not many things I look forward to more than talking to. A senator does the very thing. There is a problem in comparing auction prices in the Faeroe Islands, which the Faeroys cannot actually apply to their own species inside their own jurisdiction because their fishing regime is involved and has been involved for decades. They have oversealed all their strains in contrast with the above. [[The president calls.]] I see that the minute has expired and is trying to use the others better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u86	A man's a sailor.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u87	Mr. President. As I've said here before, I want the nation to get a share of their resource resources. 33% is no more of it if this is truly a resource resource resource value calculated in this hunting bill we're talking about here. This is going to be a good one. The pro board is leaving. We made it in 2012 for the nation to receive more than 60% and 40%. Despite everything, they would share the resource, but they had also calculated the natural interest of the projection. The cost of fishing vehicles has increased by 300 billion since collapse and profit gains, and the EBITADA has generally been at least twice as high as in other sectors. [[The president calls.]] A large portion of this gain is to be given to the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u88	A respectable president. I would ask them again, " Would that satisfy my demands? ' The senator said we raised this figure from 33% to something else? The way the auction would lead to what lay ahead. A senator wanted to be careful about all of this. There is no way to talk about the auction route and its efficiency that would probably maximise the State's yield of even the use of this resource, not for auctions two and not for auction three. What really matters is what the nation is getting out of this in the long run. The auction route would lead to what happened. A senator wanted to avoid, contouring, both geographical and commercial, i.e. that the dinner would probably all land into the hands of three or five companies and would be done in three or five places on the endpoint.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u89	A respectable president. How on earth can whisk. A senator claimed this? We've never been able to offer up fish clearances. [[Up front.]] There are, however, rules that are well - known. We now have 12% maximum compression, to try to prevent compression. When we set out rules for the auction, we might as well say that no one should have more than 12%. We can set rules, and that is what is done when an invitation is made - rules that serve the interests of someone who offers the product or the work. That's the way it is. The employment board needs to review the factors that are deductible and highest. Secretary introduced the transparency yesterday, including ... forthecontinent. They need to be reviewed and considered justified, how controlled, and how to affect both variable costs and whether it is justified in taking all these fixed costs and removing them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The employment board needs to review this and try to find out who's a real resource, but the figures for the profits of the marine industry are available in recent years, and it's not fair for the nation to get so little of this primary resource. [[The president calls.]] We are to offer part - time, even if it was only for the price of reference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u90	Madam President. It's a little strange that we're just three in the audience, but good, we're going for it anyway. It certainly is a pleasure to see that the highest. A seafaring minister has not only entered the hall but also had the power to deliver his own bill to reduce the number of hunting costs this time, instead of trying to sneak it through a professional committee and thus shunning a discussion in the government groups. Let's not party to it, though. You see, that was fine in the history of the highest. Ministers that he talked a lot about brotherliness and peace. I think it's very positive. The perplexing discussion of this bill is important, and it is to point out its advantages and advantages as well as to try to find ways to improve it. I hope that the criticism that I come up with will be listened to, of course, as the criticism is presented to the greatest of all differences and the greatest kindness. I say this after having received dozens of calls and e - mails over the last two days from people who are very unhappy with this bill. You see, it's not that it's all cut and cut. To analyze this, I think we need to examine it in a two-way light. First of all, this may be considered an attempt to correct the present system's defects from the wrong reasons, but nevertheless, that the present arrangement is basically good. Second, this hunting bill can be considered an attempt to avoid repairing the present system's defects, and then I'm talking about the underlying systemal defects that are maintained by the bill. I'm gonna take this positive thing first. There are some good changes here. The application is being done closer in time, the management board is made simpler, there are some things that are handled that are very nice. The administrative changes proposed are likely to improve the interests of many companies. Just moving this towards time will reduce the uncertainty that a company has to go through over a two-year period while waiting for the price of hunting costs to be submitted. They make room for the funds and so forth. True, it is a little strange to the new process of mixing the highest. Minister into decision-making every time you have to charge your hunting fees. The process is that the companies submit a tax report on their fishery; the Fishing Room confirms that they are statistics or failures after incidents; and the head of state tax determines what to pay. All right. For most of this kind, the natural means are, if we're talking e.g. Of taxes, radio bills, or what it is, that when a fee has been determined, it is simply collected. But, no, for some reason a Minister needs to come in specifically and send a letter to implement this process at another institution. Since the algorithm is determined by the General Assembly and the bills are carried out by the government tax manager, there is no particular reason for the Minister to enter this rather. It's just not necessary. The part of the procedure could be pulled out. Then the algorithm is also special, especially the deduction teams. Subtracting from all investments opens the door to a major investment just before the New Year's Eve and selling it again after the New Year's Eve. Of course, rather than taking the overall position, you should try to look at this from your net. In that case, it is even a double discount as it is a discount of investments at the beginning and to cancel at the end. I hope this handman will be corrected in the treatment of a professional health committee. And then there's the bad changes, there's a few. Basically, a lower rate of fishing is being set for 2019 than is evidence. I'm not going to go over the magnitude of the decrease in every species, but it's a reduction of almost all of them, including a 40% reduction in cod. At the present time, Refectors are 70% higher than Icelanders do today. It'll be a lot more 2019 if it goes through like this. Then you wonder why Iceland's economics are so much like the economics of the Faeroe Islands that the exact same fish must be three times as cheap in Iceland as there. It might be said that the enterprise's self-finance may be lower, but that does not seem to be the case in the light of the enormous profits that have come from the largest. Maybe there's a shorter cut on the tickets? No, actually, there's more to the notes for the Faeroes. In fact, no part seems to be involved. Maybe the highest. A minister points me to some team that basically makes economics different in Iceland than in the Faeroes. Nevertheless, this is what is laid up, i.e. The dramatic reductions in fishing costs in this bill, and there has been no evidence for it - unless it has been worse than the previous year's travel. Then you think: Okay, what about this smut that's been shown since you're gonna nail down a 33% share number, as in this bill, you're gonna tap on these swings? Either this reduction is to create another swing or that this system does not adapt any fluctuations over its heads. Both cannot be true at the same time. There is a bit of a key in the coverage of the hunting charges itself that these are, of course, exactly the same numbers we saw in spring, that is some kind of perennial attempt to lower hunting costs without there being logical on any basis that is really some foot for. It's the review if we assume that the present system is good, but as I said it isn't. There are many flaws in the current arrangement, e.g. To determine the price of fishing, whether the government, or the General by incident, is to be determined. In fact, it is interesting how many have spoken of this as a marketed price, despite the fact that the bill literally determines what it should be before 2019 C.E. It sounds like a political decision, and not just because it is the first year, and all accounts, of course, result from what will be done in 2019, is this, of course, a line in the sand to ensure that the fishing costs will be permanently low. There's a table in the bill about a 40% reduction in the fishing charge. That's just the case. It cannot be claimed as a marketing fee, i.e. that the market may set the price, if this tablet is present. The only way to make the market decide the price is to remove the tablet and create some marketism where the market is literally set for the price. That's very normal. V.E.G. The minister said before we heard what. Harðardóttir It was not about whether it was 102 or 103 k. the kilogram, as if it were somehow possible to take all the talk about the dollar peak out of parentheses. You're absolutely right by the Topv. Minister, this isn't about 102 or 103 k. the kilogram, it's about if it's 22 k. or 13K. a pound. All right, if we look at the prices that we see in the quattabraski which has been by species and times the numbers of numbers that have been caught and put together, which is actually the same algorithm that is put on this bill to determine hunting costs, the resource seems to be a total of about 1,000 billion dollars. worth complete, i.e. over many years. This conversation involves not only the sale of quotas but also the renting process but, of course, not all the dinner is for sale. The State of England accepts approximately 0.8% of this number according to the bill compared to the next year if we assume that these fishing bills are used, and then the question arises, How high is the ratio normal? Some have suggested that this should be at least 50%. It may be quite normal for the nation to receive at least 50% of the resource resources. Then there are questions about how to calculate it. It is an economic subject that has been solved for quite some time and should not need to be discussed every time someone raises it. Bear in mind that according to the vastly accurate calculation of the highest. Ministers can't charge, but not at all, more than 13.8k. the kilogram for the codfish of 2019, despite the fact that citizens rent to their citizens today are paying about $110. for the weight on the market, as well as the fishing fees. It tells us that there are some people who get 110 bucks. for every kilogram that other people do all the work around them. This is nothing other than the ever-growing contagion, a well-known phenomenon for economics about those who sit on a resource as they own it. In 1st. a law on the control of fish tells you that they don't have it, but they sit on it as if they belong to it, do their work with it, and benefit from the resource, in whatever way they got it. At the same time, the value of the kilogram must be said to be at least 132 k. In view of today's fishing fee, which is closer to the price of the mighty state. Basically, the question of correct fishing costs is so simple: Who's going to get this money? Is it supposed to be Icelandic folk through the state funds, or should it be those who in one way or another be given the right to use and make use of this quota? If we had some sort of normal arrangement of this arrangement, the nation would benefit primarily from being on trial rather than merely making a huge profit from a few companies. To say that, I'm not opposed at all, because companies are making a fortune and making it very well. It's just very nice for a company to heal. But this must be done on a reasonable basis and under normal conditions. Today, the leaders of this system are not fair, nor are they designed to promote a good and just society. No kidneys can really happen unless people are carrying a much deeper pocket for or when some are so kind as to lend on no price to get people started. Yeah, well, we can talk about this 5.3%, but the reality is that this is just a little higher, but it makes it easier for no one to jump out of the social system into the bigger system. Instead of doing this right and going the market route, instead of doing what you would have thought you would have thought the market - oriented category, or you would say that you did, using the free market, is taking in a 33% ratio which is also calculated from a group that seems to be particularly designed to facilitate vertical integrated companies to sides for their expense groups. For example, one fine company that today deliberately runs all its agricultural work in a nonsenseing loss of money making money between management units because the formula makes this particular arrangement minimizes the fishing costs, just as they are calculated today. I'm sure if this bill goes through, the company will have a lot of groundwork, but the ships will suddenly find themselves in a lot of trouble. It doesn't take a lot of excel philosophers to find transfers in such a system to minimize hunting costs but to maximise profits, despite that. The methods that are certainly taking part in this bill will not completely prevent this. This is very open to business agreeing to move into numbers to run down the joint stock of the hunting fee. In fact, this is just an attack on the income charge of a government fund that can be expected because it is already there. [[The president calls.]] Now I've fallen on time, so I have to come for at least One more talk, but this will do for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u91	A respectable president. Hv. A senator had many comments about his speech. He especially goes to what has been discussed before, the so - called Faeroe Islands reference, and probably go over it a little. When it comes to this statement that Movers receive 70% higher price for their labor than Icelanders, ask why they have three times higher prices there than here, claiming that they have more money for the Faeroes, you ask: "Why aren't Infernoblers taking fees for cod or other fish in the local sea? What's so great about this system? On the one hand, I'd like to ask what. A senator who speaks for taking up the ever - increasing route: Is he recommended that the price of sailors be withdrawn from a fishing fee in Iceland, as in the Faeroe Islands? Speaks anyway. A senator for recent recruitment in the article but at the same time an auction? Then I'll ask you what obstacles are going to take. A senator drawing into the auction system if he does not intend to prevent the strongest springing of everything that will be offered? These are basic questions for members of Congress to answer those coming here and their provincial fishing system that has ruined their home grounds. At the same time that is spoken of for the way it is used, they must take their stand on certain fundamental factors that are quite different from the fishing regime in the Faeroe Islands and here. I eagerly await the senator's position on these two questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u92	Madam President. These are the questions you've heard before and have been answered here today, but I'll answer them with joy. It can be noted that the system taken up by Rebblers is still in the experimental phase. They're still developing it, still trying to learn how to behave these things. Of course, there are not - yes, there are various lessons and lessons. [[Most of us.]] Of course, when things are well done, you should look at them. Anyone who has the goal of trying to maximise the nation's profits with a resource sees that the portable route works considerably better than the Icelandic way at the moment. Now comes the top. Minister to damage tickets in the Faeroe Islands, but we need to check that the decision to make a total fishing is taken from the highest level. Minister in consultation with the Oceanographic Institute. That's what determines whether or not the tickets are destroyed, not by which of the resource is divided, how the total volume of fishing is divided against those who want to hunt. It doesn't matter if it's Jón or Gunnar, who hunts up the destruction of the environment, just how much is given when they're all numbered. As for the auction design, I can't go far into it in 30 seconds, but there are hundreds of types of auction systems that have been developed through the years to meet different types of goals for those who keep the auction. None of them are determined to make any specific system of decomposition. You can really hold it down, you can go out in such exercises, but you don't need it. A complete science discusses how you design offers to achieve the goals you have. Why can't we overlook always having this English auction system in our head and instead looking at science as normal? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u93	A respectable president. I'm no closer to what I'm thinking. A candidate to see if we should make Icelandic companies working in the seas comparable to the conditions when they are to be offered. A senator wants to set up an auction. Are we talking about equalizing the conditions of Icelandic fishing companies, e.g. About carbon bills, insurance fees, and the seamen's salary charge? That's what I'm talking about. A senator speaking for this? I would like to hear that before taking my stand on the ideas presented here. Similarly, when we are discussing different auction systems, I demand to know whether politicians in this hall are going to take part in directing the auctions on the basis of their viewpoints. So, who are they? How will they control who is allowed to offer what? What devices are we going to use? What conditions do humans intend to set? Can I get a big company now and a little next? Can a company in the East just have a party? [[The president calls.]] What's the point of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u94	Madam President. So I start by answering the question I didn't get in my first reply, whether I am suggesting that the fishing fee be withdrawn from the seamen's salary: of course not. At the moment, so many other seamen's wages are being drawn that it is truly amazing that anyone really should do this work. In fact, it is becoming increasingly difficult to get on board ships. I heard of one very good ship the other day that was incredibly difficult for humans because people could just get a better salary in the country, and they didn't have to be far from their families. In fact, the cost of renewal is now being reduced to ships of sailors. But as far as auction design is concerned, I'm not speaking for certain rules. I'm not speaking for a specific compartment. I'm talking about how we get the world's leading experts on the auction design to figure out how to do this in a reasonable way. I'm not an expert on auction design, anything more than the highest. Minister, but we have these experts. They exist, and we can totally start talking to them because that's the way we use to get the best possible price for the resource, for the people of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u95	A respectable president. It's interesting to listen to what's happened. A senator, a lot of things I would have liked to talk to him about, but you have to choose from in a short answer. I'd especially like to come in with that as a matter of course. A senator came to the end of his talk, worried over so - called middleman, i.e. We're separating between fishing and processing as suggested here. That stuff gives me a little bit of interest, and I want to talk to you about it. A senator. I know why. A senator continues to see that order is clear and does well at the time. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator's decision to move the project into the hands of the governor of the tax. We have natural laws on middle prices and are primarily supportive of data returned to the government tax manager. So could it not be the opposite when there is a violation of the taxpayer's return if some kind of abnormal price arises with all its bounds, miscalculation to the tax manager? If this fact, which we do not know about, is less likely to happen than more because the data is submitted. It's been contacted by a Fish Lab, we know the prices of markets and we see the company's accounting data. Refuse them before they return them to the tax chief is a serious violation of the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u96	Madam President. It is true that this move to the head of the tax is likely to reduce certain types of anomalies. It is well - known, for example, that when people do tax returns, there are always some factors in which things can be recorded in one way or another as they are just as accurate as some ideas. Of course, people will be doing so. When we're talking about individuals, these are very limited possibilities, but when we're talking about whole business relationships, it's not difficult to install an excel document where people intersect things within the kit with the goal of minimising such fees. Although I like it very much, in principle, separate the fishing and processing in this respect and let this all revolves around the fishing process, there is still a problem that we are talking about very large vertical integrated enterprises which have very large business modules and very densely controlled business modules, which are easy to move things to the inside. It's not unique, it's being practiced all over the world. We can talk about a double Irish route, which is one of the world's most important accounting blocks, absolutely legal, as this whole thing is, it's not a tax law, but it's a way to minimize taxes. This is often called tax returns. Here we go. To some extent, a senator into my biggest criticism, which I did not find in my speech about this which is that this bill does nothing really to fix the position of small companies. The present system is set up to favor large companies and their owners, and there seems to be no other purpose in this. It's a small business that's gonna get a bad deal out of this. What I would have thought is that when new rules are being put out of this account, there should be some adjustment in order to end this vertical integration from being as much a petition as she is. [[The president calls.]] That's about it. Six to eight types of enterprises, I can quite sort them down later, but there are only two types of types that really make up on this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u97	A respectable president. I'm not going to be as clear in my statements as what. A senator of the people's will to break the rules or what the situation is today. Simply put, I'm going to look at the fact that the nature of possible offenses has become a violation of tax divorce on its own as a result of reducing the likelihood of them. Then we have a law on desalination, and we have an award shop that collects guidelines. Of course, all of this can be enhanced in keeping track of this. It should not be particularly complicated to see if any abnormal records are in there. Besides, I have to say, a respectable president, I find it a little strange to talk about this whole business only when it's being put on the edge of a crisis that only happens on big companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u98	Madam President. I may not have spoken clearly enough when I said that I was in the foundation very pleased with the idea of moving this over to the governor. It is true that in many respects this will prevent the law from being violated. But as I said, the problem is not just that the law is broken but that things can be rounded up to a whole lot in a completely legal way, with the result of the lack of fishing costs. This is the real danger that exists because there are no distinctions between different types of enterprises and this 10% stress on the ocean fish is nothing. This is the kind of pressure that matters for this company, but this is not the point of making a major impact on whether this system will work out. [[Up front.]] If we are actually going to tailor this well, we need to consider that there are several different classes of fish farming companies in Iceland. Some of them are very small, they need help, they are not in good business situations, but there are several huge ones who make billions of money each year, just good for them, but they have good rules about how they work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u99	Madam President. There are two main questions I would like to ask. A senator on this bill. The first thing is about the purpose of the law, as shown in Article one. The bill that says that the nation should be protected from direct and visible share in the fishing of the resource, a share in the fishing of the crops of the sea. It has become a result of the article, which, in my opinion, is key. Then I'd like to ask. A senator: Does he agree that it is proper to look at the outcome of this article in a decision at a fishing fee? If he agrees, does he not also agree that the fishing fee can swing in rhythm as a change in the outcome of this article? The rate of hunting is higher if the yield is good; the price of hunting gets lower if the yield is poor. I'd like to hear about this. The other thing is about it when we're discussing the benefit of Iceland's fish fish with Icelanders. Why would it be reasonable to consider such matters? Is it fair to look only at the cost of fishing, the centenarian's fee, or is it not reasonable that we also keep in mind other taxes paid by the fishing industry and the fishing road, to form a company tax, which is about the amount of money we pay for? I could also mention an insurance bill that is similar to the amount of money or other fees that are combined, such as a sum, a stamp, and a carbon account. Don't we have to watch all of this? When we take together the fishing rate and the corporate tax, the government's taxation at sea plants' profits is above 50%. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u100	Madam President. Yes, it is a question of such goals. Any goals mentioned in paragraph 1 can be identified. legal bill, but it may not change that if the numbers then say something else, the goal may not be as described. It may always be the essence of the discussion, whether people agree on the objective and whether their goals are met. I'm just not convinced that our objective is reached. If we were here talking about using sulfur mines as we had in the 19th century and were going to be resource costs for using sulfur, we would, of course, decide the price we wanted for the ton of sulfur, and that would end it, and those companies that could use it would use it and others wouldn't. Of course, the fishing grounds are the basic work of the nation, the second - largest sector, so we do only differently because it matters so much to us. In that case, we will take more into account the purpose of this article, for it is so special. Then fishing costs can swing. If the algorithms are directly designed with the view that they do not moat, how strange it is if you have to redefined your hunting fees to be 40% lower in order to try, well, I don't know what. That's never been explained. What are the benefits? Yes, he is quite significant. Remember, though, that all these taxes, credits, and all of these are due. A senator mentioned travel services, technical companies, agriculture, and the aluminium. [[Up front.]] We're talking about the use fees of an resource. I noticed that in the face of what happened. A senator at the moment. paritaprevir With a new Oddný A G. Harðardóttir earlier, he seemed to have trouble realizing whether there was a price or a tax on the market. While it is such a fundamental guess. A senator is extremely difficult to talk about this on reason. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u101	Madam President. It's perfectly clear that this is a tax. This follows all tax laws on what needs to be done. This, in fact, lies ahead of us. judges of the Supreme Court, which make it absolutely clear. It's not a service fee, it's a tax. It's a pleasure to hear that. A senator agrees with me that it is proper to look to the outcome of the article. It has meaning when we are discussing how we work it out. This is important, and it is natural that the outcome will also worsen as it is currently being done. We're in a hurry. The figures are very clear that the recovery now in the fishing road is increasing rapidly, and it is only natural that the fishing costs reflect it. There is something else that was not quite correct in speaking at times. Senator. You see, other occupations do not pay the price. First, fishing is the only article that pays special taxes, as is the case, no other branch that uses the other resources in the country pays for such taxes. The marine exit is the only article where the clock charge is placed on a job machine, not on any other professional level. [[The president calls.]] The marine road pays extra loads on insurance bills. No other profession in the country will pay. [[The president calls.]] Does this not affect the competitiveness of the fishing road on international markets?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u102	Madam President. Yeah, you're absolutely right. We could just talk about why it's getting worse. It's the Icelandic crown's gang. If we had a better government in the country or even a better currency, it might not be a problem, and those swings would be overreached. This certainly is not a service fee, of course not. There is no service to be performed. Resources are being accessed. Granted, the report says that this is somewhere on the limit to paying and tax, a fundamental difference between the two. That's what we're gonna say. A senator says it's an entire tax without double testimony, even pointing to the Supreme Court's judgment. V.E.G. A seaman minister told me that this was a tribute two days ago, not a tax. That's when I think it's time to get to the top. Minister and minister. A senator settles himself in a room and gets to the bottom of this case because I really want to know if this is so that a good, informed decision can be made. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u103	Madam President. We're here to discuss a new government bill on fishing costs. It is clear that it seems who has managed this bill by the national interests of the nation. There's still an interesting exchange going on here today. It is true that in spite of changing the land's landscape into the nation's commercial life over the years and decades, the fishing industry still maintains its importance. It is very important for the nation of England to continue doing so. This need to be reflected in all approach to the provision of fishing arrangements. The proposals for change in the currency that some recommend, including the one listed here, need to be reflected in those who defend the present system. It is not the same as wanting to change an arrangement to pay for it and wanting to do the fishing system. The course of restoration in these matters is clear. In the basic policy of the party, it says, with permission of the president: It should be used in a sustainable and rational way. The market needs to be paid for their access. Furthermore, policy-reflecting requires some of the resource expenditures of infrastructure. We want revenues from resource costs, whether in the seaside, energy industry, tourism, or other resource-related activities, to contribute partly to the home-based infrastructure. The largest part of a government fund of such resources comes into existence in the country. It is important that some of them contribute to the internal development of the existing rural society. But I think it's time to start the tour by specifying what's positive in this bill. First, there is a change that according to the bill, the hunting fees take on new information. This change is an attempt to bring the price closer to the real value of the catch at any given time. I say an experiment, because while the change in time is important and positive, the estimate of the catcher's value as a base or as the source of the fishing bill is not more natural or correct in this bill than it has been or is now. Although the fishing fee's application takes into account new information, or is currently being taken into account, the primary defect of the current system is not to be eliminated rather than the actual resource tax. I heard a lot less talk in the platform earlier, so it's clearly undisputed. I expect this to be one of the things that will be considered during conquistancy. On the positive side. On the one hand, the payer line is being drawn at the tableside, as it were. In other words, the price is being linked to the right to catch, not to the process. It's a positive thing, and it's just, but it also shows the major flaws on the bill and the calculations on the stocks of the fishing fee and the currency. In order to improve the limitations associated with this methodology in finding the currency population, the bill refers to various methods that all of us have in common to be guided. An example is the challenge to treat a fixed cost in an integrated enterprise, i.e. an enterprise that has both fishing and processing, how to switch between the structural part and the processing part. This is a search for what can be called a random solution, i.e. ... offwritestwo times. No one knows what comes out of that calculation, and they cannot be read until we have applied them in 2020. Madam President. There are a number of issues in this context, but we may not argue that people's views on hunting costs, especially in a Senate hall, are different, mostly with regard to the amount of payment, but also about methodology. In terms of the latter, methodology, we feel that in a restoration of one of the main points of clearance, we find the fairest way to collect the fee, this price we are, in spite of all agreement to be paid for the use of the nation's resources. Our course in restoration is clear. We believe it is reasonable and reasonable that the way it is paid is to reflect the actual contribution of the enterprises in this article, not the miscredulous politicians, depending on where the wind blows the high price. The best way to ensure this, on the other hand, is to make a temporary agreement with a fishing company and, on the other hand, that the currency is living at the market prices at any given time by setting a small part of the quatane's auction every year to find a reference value. In other words, the payment would be based on the actual market value of the proceeds. I mentioned temporary negotiations. Notes of the bill we are discussing here are specifically referred to a report by the Committee for Resources, which served at the turn of the century. The committee was appointed representatives of all political parties then represented at the council, and it discussed all the resources that were or might be national property, as it was said, but it was actually the most about the crops of the sea. So it is referred to this report that fishing costs can be attributed to the cohesion of the Committee. The sentence quoted from the proposal highlights a direct link between the persistence of the warrants and the receipts. This is fundamental. The government points to the plate we address here in this sentence, but it still determines that the fishing price will still be paid for its premature rights or use. This is an important point in determining whether this is a national property or property. During the last term, when working under the transnational committee of the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the then sea emissary minister, chairman of the woodcuttery, was called on as a future form of currency for the use of the fishing resource, the representatives of both the advance and left green in the commission emphasized that there was a temporary use, and that it would have to be reflected in the possibility of reconciliation. The members of the Independence Party on the Committee were the only one who did not interfere at the time the committee worked. The one standing here was a representative of the restoration of the besieged committee. There I proposed or thought that a comment sheet of information would be given on the basis of a long - term agreement between the development and the State on a private basis while ensuring that currency for the use of the common resource will reflect the profitability of the article at any given time. The idea, in part, was based on views promoted by the restoration but also took into account the work of the Guðbjartur - given name Hannesson from the early left administration and the billing Sigurður of Ingi son of Jóhannsson from the last elected period in which it was proposed that a new contract be made to 23 years of age with the current resources. This work, or the suggestions on which the idea is based, is in common that there will be a price for temporary fishing rights. The primary purpose of limiting food rights to a particular time was to achieve undisputed recognition of national property. A temporary right to use is the prerequisite for achieving two very important targets in such legislation, on the one hand, that the rules of the law fully reflect the national partnership and that they can contribute to the greatest national cost of hunting. This fishing bill of the government that we are discussing today, which leaves no note the importance of temporary use of the national resources, recognizes that both the left green and the forwarding are in a hard race from the previous demand for temporary use to establish the widely accepted fact that the marine resource is a national property. Madam President. The opening point is that Iceland's natural resources are the national share. The restoration takes place, including the following: emphasis on getting clear resource rules in the constitution. In the discussion here, we would like to emphasize that the currency reflects the fact that this is a national property by temporary intervention of resources through long-term contracts. The bill we discuss here, however, does not include any common partnership or national property, nor is there any mention of temporary privileges or unrepeatability. In addition, as I have gone over, we have stressed that parts of the labor warrants are offered up to achieve fair and natural prices for the resource. However, here, political ownership of prices is still maintained and therefore a payment base on which the payout is based. In fact, it is hard to understand that a company in the fishing field does not make serious comments about this approach. It would seem that the uncertainty of political intervention beyond the fact that the market controls the prices, thus obtaining both transparency and leadership, would be viewed by ocean - based instruments. Reverence will continue to fight for the views I have mentioned here. I have every hope that they will have a sound foundation in this government bill on fishing costs, at least. The basis for a discussion that hopefully will be fulfilled with the objective of working toward the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u104	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke here about the pros and cons of the bill and went through it objectively. Still, I pause at some of the factors as easily as possible. A senator mentioned in his talk, including the turning point. that her vision that the fishing system needs to be self-sustained and that we use the national community in the most sustainable way. So I ask, is there any basis for the present fishing system to suggest that we do not use the resource in a sustainable manner? Is there something in the fishing business today that gives you why? A senator's reason to conclude that the Icelanders have not used and are not making sustainable use of the resource? On the one hand, it is discussed that these types of currency, both in present regulations and in the bill, are not about actual resource costs. The bill says that there is a need to discuss whether we can somehow arrange the currency, not just from seawater soil, but also from other sources, in order to provide some taxation for the use of the resource directly and otherwise of some taxation of the available resources. I'd love to hear from you. A senator will see if any ideas for which her political powers may follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u105	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I must admit that I became so about the first question, because I don't know that I've said or suggested that the present fishing system was not used in a sustainable way, I just don't know that it was in my case... [[Up front.]] Okay. No, I don't think it's, but it's not part of my discussion here. We're talking about a hunting bill. As I said, I became so involved and searched for the first part so much that the second question was the highest. A minister passed me, which is worse than anything else. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm asking him to come back up here. It's a good thing the misunderstanding is destroyed. I don't think so. I am a fan of the current fishing system as far as it goes in the direction of the article.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u106	A respectable president. It's always nice to be able to get people to surprises you love. That wasn't my thought, though. Hv. A senator got a lot into a discussion about the fishing system, how to change sources, and so forth, I noticed the basics that I think most people have made together about the Icelandic fishing system. The use of the resource has proved to be quite successful. I'm glad to hear that there's some agreement because I'm paying attention to it, including. Because of the experience of other nations, to have an arrangement other than we have a provision for the resources and use of the resource. Hv. One senator says that it is not good to have a mixed political body in determining the cost as it is suggested in the bill, so I must ask: In what way do we take the legislation from the council for the curing of a common resource? [[The president calls.]] I would've just wanted to hear from what. A senator's idea of it other than an auction. Somewhere, the lawgiver must arrive and the rules must be placed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u107	Thank you very much. Ministers back the answer and correct what I told you earlier, I also think it is important not to assume that those who wanted to see the change in hunting costs and how the currency for the resource was necessarily an attempt to change the fishing system. There's nothing like a sign in between, without me ruling out here that anyone wants to see a change. How do I want my lawgiver to come to the matter? It's not that complicated. It is up to the Lawgiver to decide whether we will go to the market where we can put some of the catch in order to obtain the guidelines. What ratio? The lawyer's making up his mind. How do we apply it as a permanence? The lawyer's choice, too. Are we going all the way? That's where lawgiver comes in. The difference is that this is not only the lawgiver taking this step but also that we leave the markets at a price, as far as we want. It can also be said: " Let's just make the decision, use it as a reference in certain parts, because we want to take it step by step. It's a lawmaker's choice, but methodology is a different one, and it produces more transparent and more reasonable prices. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u108	A respectable president. I thought why. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson measures a lot of rationalities, especially about what is discussed here, i.e. The hunting bill itself. In fact, I feel quite consistent with the bill itself, although other members of Parliament took the advantage of discussing the entire fishing system in this context. There's one point where I wanted to ask why. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's son. I understood correctly that it is policy for the restoration to use the auction route only in order to find it at any given moment. A senator called the market value of the fishing warrant, i.e. that by offering a portion of the salad at any given time, would you find a reference price for the fishing fee? Should the auction route be used for that purpose?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u109	Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It really gives me a welcome opportunity to correct if there's been a misunderstanding. No, it's not the idea to use the price that comes later as the basis for fishing fees, i.e. That if you drop a fishing fee, it's in return. Making companies who participate in auctions pay a certain price for receiving greetings. That is the price if you would like to put it into practice, such as the company that is relevant to the country's use. This is another system and another approach. It's like I talked about earlier in our conversations with the highest. A minister can take it in step. It's probably too steep to take one piece, and not necessarily the acceptable way to go all the way. This may be partially, but at least This is a way to find the right guidelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u110	A respectable president. This point was needed to be clear, for it is important. Then the second question. If an auction system was to be in place of the fishing system as we know it now, I would do well to know how to validate such an auction that it did not lead to what humans would like to avoid, i.e. Opponents of the current system, both geographically and commercially, i.e. depending on the size of the enterprise. As soon as the auction is at hand, they begin to reduce the profit of it. They begin to lower the price of what brings out value. That's why I'd like to know. A senator how to make such an offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u111	Thank you for a good question. I'd think they'd have what. Parliaments in this room who believe in marketing solutions in some of the articles knew that tender invitations are well - known to require conditions on the part of the bidders. This can be attached in a number of ways, and it's just around the corner. A senator may be able to reduce the height of the value, but this would be done because we consider other things to be valuable too, i.e. ensuring any distribution and preventing further compression. I'm not worried that people who know how to work there will not be able to write such a statement on behalf of the owners of the wealth, but they're still working. In many other articles, I know how such conditions are presented, but I have not worked where there is just as much foundation as this time. [[The president calls.]] Yet, it cannot be hidden from anyone who has observed news transfer during the past few weeks that there is considerable compression in the fishing road and more than many enjoys. It is not as if the present system would prevent it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u112	A respectable president. Hv. A senator called on members of the council who believed in the market solution just before. I'm not sure I've been in it for a long time. Senator. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I found it very interesting to listen to the language. A senator, a lot of places where I think it's worth sitting over and over and wondering. That is why I may especially want to hear more about certain adjustments. A senator has talked about it. She has, for example. there was an offer on a certain part of the quatane. What, then, about the portion of quatane that is not offered out? Is the price at the auction should be controlled by the price, or do we have to have a system for hunting fees on the non-employed items and that time? So, are we suggesting the system that we now have? Isn't that an excellent system? Not quite so, for there is a purpose. A senator testified that she herself suggested in a memorandum with the commission for reimbursement in the fishing business, that the currency reflected the use of money at any given time? Hv. A senator had a conversation with some of them. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon was just fine about how fences would need to be on like this. I'm not as religious at the market in a national economic interest as any. Senator. The market is a device in which the strongest advisers, the wealthy, as we have just seen in the Faeroes. For a company with a quota but bids a thousand more tons, it is far easier and cheaper to pick up an extra 1,000 tons than for someone to start from scratch to apply for the 1,000 tons. I'd like to hear thoughts at ease. The senator on how she intends to resolve this after the marketing release.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u113	Thank you. A senator's answer. First, I will answer his first question: No, the idea is not that there will be a double system in the sense that things go public, at least Not the idea of restoration, but the end of the current payment, and this is a substitute. [[Up front.]] No, as I said before and have said before, these are the steps. This is our ideologies. This is our solution. Even in my wildest dreams of welcome here in the hall, I wouldn't suggest that this be done in a single winter, but it would require adjustment. Still, the rest is worth the discussion. I share the compression concern, but the experience of the current system shows that it is very difficult to cope. As far as I know, design and authors of the present system were concerned about initial compression. And what's the situation now? It's not just a lot, it's growing as the latest news indicates. I agree, something remarkable, what. The senator that the marketing solution would not help us to reduce the convergence we now have, but we have certain means, these can be entered into small steps, and they can be grouped down. We'll come back to it. It would then be possible at the expense of a high price, but it is proper and normal to do so if the estimate is that the price would be paid elsewhere, e.g. in reducing the rate of compression. The compression is in progress, and it has nothing to do with the efforts of the changed currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u114	A respectable president. I admit, I don't quite understand it yet, but there's a possibility I'm more to blame than what. A senator. We've got 100% of resources and we're gonna give ourselves a heads-up. A senator who does not intend to install the new system in one condition takes 5% or say 10% and then posts this auction but is not supposed to be double systems. That's what I'm talking about. So a senator would say that of the 90%, there will be no fees, but should only be paid in the stocks of the stocks that go to the auction every time? What will happen to the fishing costs for the stock of what the companies here collect in the sea if only it is due to be paid for the cut as long as the water. A senator wants to set up an auction? Don't you have to pay in there? This has been done, and we are to learn from experience. I mention Estonia in this context. [[The president calls.]] There was an auction, and the market was a bit out of control. There was a lot of compression when 10% of labour sources were issued, bankruptcy of enterprises, etc. We are to learn from it and carefully step to the earth, and even if there is now a contract, it is not necessarily the solution to taking all restrictions away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u115	Thank you again, Madam President. It's good to have a good time. A senator is having this conversation because here we are mistaken for each other. The invitation in small steps constitutes the standard used for the whole quatane.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u116	That's what I asked about last year's answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u117	I misunderstood the question, I thought it was. A senator would be suggesting that the rest abide by the current law by this calculation on a fixed and variable cost to God alone knows how to obtain it. The other question was about the compression again. We agree, it's just a problem. It's a challenge. I don't know if one day we'll lose this attempt to keep more companies in, these smaller ones. I don't share that opinion. A senator, if I correctly understand that the present system is better off than the ideas we have. In fact, I think we can be more direct with the system that I have spoken to before. I do not agree that the present system is not good, but when we compare two systems, I must simply get permission to say that it has not prevented compression. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u118	Before we proceed, the president wants less of it. Councilmen at 66 st. Congress that says we should speak directly to the president or meeting. Also, I would like to remind the speakers to respect their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u119	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill for changing the law about the pressures of hunting fees, a bill that I'm a huge fan of. I think it's very important that we change the arrangement that has been approved for the pressures and decisions of hunting costs. This afternoon's discussion has provided excellent support for the view that we share, since the present arrangement is incomplete and it really is very unfortunate how not to follow the flows and fluctuations of hunting and fishing and working in the sea. Surely, this year the arrangement we have had will bite us. We are talking about a job path that is in an unstable business environment, that is, that its circumstances are constantly changing. For the most part, he lives in the process of working as a natural plant, and nature sets in the vast majority of his working conditions. However, I would rather take the discussion of this excellent bill to other areas that have been less discussed here in this relationship, simply what this payer means and how it meets the settlements of this country. In this way, the contribution has been added to the amount of money that has been made in the United States. Today, if you pay the fishing fees, you will pay off something quite different. It has really been a struggle and a great deal of trouble for many efforts to pay the fishing fees that were laid on this year. That's why I'm pointing it to what. The job committee will discuss this matter in terms of the situation and the current fees, their sum, and the way they handle the development of projects and settlements. It's based tax. More than 80% of the fishing expenditures are due from the country. They normally meet in different types of settlements where it is made. In the Northwestern district, the district I am working for, these fluctuations in the pressures of hunting costs now meant an increase of 130 to 14.140% based on the results of the analysis of the Agency. If we talk about this as a tax, there's an enormous swing in taxation. As a result, an undivided system can function as the cold hand of death and provide the basis for a completely different trend from that of us, for example. In this hall, we agree that it should become and be desirable. It simply means that in that ideal setting, there has been an enormous decrease in the number of outlaws this year, simply because of the failure of the workers in the exile to pay those fees. That is the cold fact. If we measure this about the location of people's industry, then the country is covered by 16◯17% of the industry's income in fishing, fishing, and processing. This ratio is, indeed, much higher in the communities, where the largest percentage of the commercial life in each area is created. I can name Snæfells, where these are about 40% of the sector's income. Such taxation, along with the sum of these taxes, has a tremendous impact on these settlements. We can also play the game of calculating this from taxes to the local population. The same assessment as I refer to, e.g. until this is about 140,000 k. To the inhabitants of the excellent fishing place in the South, Grindavik. We're talking about very large sizes in the street and in very weak settlements of many times and times. Though they are the strongest, where the fishing industry thrives and is truly a bearing river around the country, we must never forget this discussion of fishing costs, how we drive them, and how we put them to work. Although the discussion here also goes a long way in discussing the preparation of the fishing business, which in itself is an excellent discussion, we have a major intervention in the economy of these areas, and we actually keep their feet on. That's why I'm back at the moment. It is important to discuss such matters with a professional health provider that appreciates and values the impact of these taxes and how they deal with the economy of these areas. I know that this year's hunting costs have been directly affected by the national branch society in the Northwestern district. I haven't seen that conclusion, but I suspect it's not good news. I'm a spokesman for the addition of a variety of preparations, to maintain that as many as possible have a chance to develop there. We are not exactly supporting it by having these fees too high. We're destroying it, destroying the diversity that I think we in this room most of us want to stand up and protect. We need to know when discussing these matters, how we contribute to a trend that in general is not supported in becoming a uniform structure and a homogeneous structure in Iceland. It is exactly the strength of Iceland and Iceland to have more than a few construction sites, more than a few of the productions and the variety of productions. We're weakening it with a high catch charge, and the debate here has been a little bit focused on invitations and auctions and I have to say that there's a debate that bites a little bit in its tail here today, too, when people start to say that it's best to decide this exchange with free invitations and then talk about all the intervention that they're going to have at that tender auction. What, then, is accomplished if they are going to experiment with all the grounds on political grounds in order to get some things they too want to do? [[Up front.]] We also forget very often in a discussion of fishing costs and fishing management that we have 5.3% of all resources, 32,000 tons now, for various specialized purposes, to maintain production and diversity. To me, it's also hunting fees. These 5.3% are really the bifida in what we can call the geographic policy of the seabed and the system around which we have pots and may be the most valuable direct production into settlements as the politics at least, at any given time. How misleading it is to say that we can solve this with some patent solutions that are sometimes spoken for! Still, I respect these views, and I won't say that they're all grown up, unless they're not. But this must be recognized as our great responsibility, how we carry this great action. There is a big misunderstanding to argue that there are no market links in the bill to the highest level. A sea emissary proposes here. The price of fish or the harvest price, which is the real opposite of the price, is primarily at the market. As a result, it has a direct marketing relationship with this product. You see, this is far more serious than we can recognize in this hall that the sum of fishing bills and the method of laying them on has proved to be a major challenge to many settlements around the country this year. We often talk about small and medium-sized productions, even though there is uncertainty about these issues, but of course big, combined companies have a better chance of reacting to such fluctuations than smaller companies. The reality is, smaller companies are grounded. The less developed societies are in real trouble because they have to pay back on the year's survival for a period of two, three years. That's the cold fact. You're talking about a huge increase in hunting costs, down payment of the government's use of this resource while forgetting that we can't charge the same amount of expenses that have fallen? It is a real problem, as in many human works, to deal with the way we deal with this delicate exchange. Few things are more destructive to our waters and many settlements around the country than they are before us to break off human efforts from them. It is enough to deal with nature and her whim, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u120	Madam President. This issue is about how much people will be paid for their primary resource. The cost of fishing is 7 billion. For the next three years, it will be 61⁄28 billion. To put this figure in context, we collect 6 billion tobacco fees. This is considered a fair price for access to one of the most productive seas in the world. Let's put this 7 billion here. the number of small connections. In eight years, the commercial fishing industry gained about 370 billion. In 2017 he gained 27 billion. The ardor, only the interest the owners make from the company, was 14.5 billion last year. From seven years of age, the cost was 80 billion. That is why it is very strange that there are political parties and that there are 7 billion in some context of injustice when talking about one of the nation's most valuable resources. I must ask you why. Senator: Why is he not willing to raise this price so that the nation will receive a righteous share for their primary resources? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u121	A respectable president. Nothing surprised me in this answer I thank for. I think this is just what we're dealing with, and the politician is dealing with here, what the cold hand is going to grab a lot of the valuables I've been trying to explain here primarily on the soil of the mountain. Seafood is much lower than any other industry in Iceland. If money is a problem in the fishing road, it is taxed there. We're not doing that on this bill, are we? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u122	Madam President. This is where we're talking about paying permission to take advantage of the country's common resource. This is not about some cold hand snatching from someone. The people own this resource. Seafood companies do not own this resource. It's in the law. This bill assumes that the so - called fishing fee should be met, including the cost to which the State is involved in the sector's services. The bill later shows that the cost is about 5 billion. The total cost of fishing was 7 billion. That means that once we cover the cost of the Kingdom just to serve the article, it's 2 billion. It is 2 billion that this government feels righteous that the nation will share in this key resource of the people of the land. I can't believe it. A senator figures that there are 2 billion, approximately A fair price is twice that of what we collect in traffic tickets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u123	A respectable president. Fishing costs are not the only tax paying companies pay. I just can't believe it. A senator would insist that this is the only taxation brought by these companies. Does the senator disagree that hunting costs are not to be reflected? It's a matter of principle. If profiting is compared between commercial products in Iceland, it is only a fraction of a job. Is the profit of a fishing business a problem in New York City? No, he's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u124	Madam President. There are many questions I would like to ask. The senator, after his speech, will begin with this. It is quite unmistakably true that the use of fishing through the years has been very good and is still very good, even in comparison with the general economy. However, 18% of EBITDA production in 2017 is much higher than most of the jobs in this country. It can also be seen fine in the price of purchase, e.g. on labour clearances today that the article itself does not appear to be particularly pessimistic. It is well eaten up, it is begun to weaken, and the price of fish in the foreign markets has gone up. I don't quite see the distress this industry is in. Admittedly, companies are misinformed, but they do not seem to have evidence in the water supply department that they have something to do with their size. That's what I'm talking about. A senator in principle against the fact that the article pays for its access to the resource, this so - called fishing fee? This has been a precipitating parapolitic arrangement so far, that it is very normal, for it is a sort of substance charge of this article. [[The president calls.]] It pays no other price for this substance, which, in turn, makes a great deal of value. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u125	A respectable president. Where did it come from that I was opposed to the price paid by the lay-off? I couldn't see better than that. When I gave the talk, a senator sat in the hall. I never said that at all. But thank God, a respected President, for the Icelandic fishing route, is as well fired as it is, the best driving fishing route possible in the Western world. Other Assemblys are being given strength to the seafaring waters. Should we forget? English fishing is a fine way to make it happen. She is so much better in any other career in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u126	Madam President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator can fully agree on and add to our joy over the profit of Icelandic fishing. It is true that the present fishing system has led to a great deal of money and is not to worry about it. It's only positive when this piece of transportation brings good results, and we're supposed to celebrate it. The reason I asked him why. A senator was that he seemed upset with the fact that the project paid over the head of the fishing fees and classified the so - called settlements, 5.3%, as some kind of fishing fee that will pass the nation's resources, but we have somehow taken these 5.3% of seaheads, which is a fundamental difference in understanding of national property or not. The purpose of this article will be primarily attributed to a large supply of the crown's gangs, which is the same management problem as any export work in the country. I wondered, then, where is the government's special tax plans for reducing expenses or taxes to other exports in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u127	A respectable president. Even though I'm not high in the air, I don't think it's necessary to imagine that. In his words in the contrary, a senator makes a point. I didn't suggest or say that I was against the fact that the sea bus paid these fees, so I yielded to the kind of words that I felt were lying in front of me later. Senator. The problem is, there's been a significant decrease in the rate of success. I completely agree with a section of the diagnosis that you had. A senator proposes here, including ... oftheenlightenment of the crown's gang. The seaside road suffered a shock after a seaman strike. He hasn't won properly from it again. We live in another economic reality where tourism has become a major industry. She is the one who has much more control over the gangs of the crown. It's a little different than fishing soils have been living in the last few decades. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u128	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for an excellent speech. There were a lot of things in it that I would like to go into, but there is a short time, so I'm going to try the first question. The senator spoke of a share of the pay for the settlement. That was a lot of talk at the time, but little has been heard in recent years. Then I ask, because I completely agree with the senator on this: " How could we do that? Is it possible to do so through a hunting bill, or how would it be involved? Then there's the contractions that has become and is a fact. As I have had in the past, the number of deductions from 950 has dropped to 380 in the last 12 years, which is a major concern. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to come up to that question in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u129	A respectable president. We have often discussed an object based on fishing fees. This bill does not in itself deal with it in any way. The reality is, as I know it is. A senator knows well, e.g. in our district, where we both work for the Northwestern district, we are paid hunting fees from one rural community. Maybe you can criticize me for taking numbers and not being able to handle them completely, but there are 3,200,400 million, e.g. paid from Gravitor, which is almost like the pay of the town's kickbacks. It's just another debate, and it's important whether the settlements are going to enjoy items that we don't take on this discussion, but it's going to live on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u130	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I'd like to get to something else. I spoke of my concern here yesterday, prepared for the Senate work because small and medium-sized structures would remain in the streets. It seemed to me that it appeared in the senator's speech, too, earlier. Then the senator spoke of some sort of classification or step distinction, something like that. Is it possible for the senator to imagine that such step - change or such an example might be involved in the treatment of this bill, which hopefully will be legal for a year?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u131	A respectable president. I didn't set up an arrangement for deforestation. I used to work at night. The job committee, where we used to get used to a discussion about what was medium-sized. Little and medium-sized outputs are my goal in saying that they are free of charge in all discussions and are extremely uncertain where that limit lies. They can lie at either 100 or 200 tons or what they are, but there is no main line. What I focus on in the treatment of the Committee is that men review the survival of all types of outputs, every preparation, and how the fishing costs meet them. The debate on the fair market is alive. I can see why. In the case of this assembly, professional health committees proselytize with her, whether she has the means to move or otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u132	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a fine speech. Here, the senator gave a talk covering the sea route far and wide, especially in the northwestern district from which the senator arrives. The senator's speech, however, did not reveal any suggestion or expectation of change - unless now, in fact, it was said that the senator expects a professional committee to look at the results of each structure and to wonder if the case can be adjusted somehow so that it would stand out as different from the cast. A senator is correct. Now, the situation is that of the highest. Minister has said nothing in the bill leads to a reduction in hunting costs. Of course, we will consider this better at the council. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that nothing in this bill leads to a decrease in hunting costs? Does the senator think it is necessary, and will the senator then act and help the rest of us to change the law so that the problems of small and mediums will be handled in some way? [[The president calls.]] The law doesn't do it the way it is today, and it can't be taken through the council as unchanged. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I directed it to what? The job committee in my talk that she examined, e.g. This year's stress and saw the possibility of reevaluating it. I'll tell you in front of my speakers in a shameless way that I think it's important for people to go over it. I don't want to at this point offer direct suggestions on how much reduction it is, but it's only natural that the senator would mention that it is not part of the argument at the top of the bill. Secretary of the sea that the rate of hunting should be lowered. The expense of hunting reflects the survival and the reduction of the figure. However, there are voluntary limits and other such measures. A work board will discuss and will then be able to apply it to feel the need to better control the types of production that we call in the general speech of smaller and medium-sized structures.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u134	A respectable president. In this regard, the bill is fine so that it reaches a time that is very important. Of course, there is nothing else in this bill. It's no big bill for anything more than that. There are no problems that are addressed in the fishing industry because of the way the fishing costs are calculated and how they vary in how they work. We know that great delinquency, even in debt, is much easier to pay for the price of hunting, even if we feel that it is unfair that some of them will pay for it, rather than those who are in debt or who have invested and because of it, perhaps even owe something from the strike or collapse. It's absolutely reason that if you're not just gonna talk about making changes, we're gonna have to use the employment network committee or this room here to advance the change of the bill for these small and medium-sized structures, which include: correspondent in the Northwestern district, in the east, and in the South Sea as well. The main problem is the rural development, and we have to stick together to make the necessary changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u135	A respectable president. I really don't want to say that it's not a big bill. I think it's slavery. We're gonna go for a second. In principle, a senator has agreed on the assignment to cooperate in the council, and he does not need to reenact it in any way. I agree with the main reasons the senator here runs, that some way it is necessary to look at the taxation or the pressures of those charges. It was kind of my main involvement, at least when I delivered it, trying to highlight that this was a burdensome national tax, and mostly on the groundworks that were based on their survival on the way of the sea. I think it's too heavy for the present situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't want to be a cuckoo. It is good to participate in this discussion on the fishing costs. We couldn't get them started in spring, they got up late, the fishing fees that were then being discussed. Now it's been accomplished time to work on a new bill. As I've had the opportunity to look at that bill, it seems to me that it's getting close to the delivery point very much. This is what has been tried to do for real time since 2012 when the fishing fees were added - before, when these became serious revenues became the nation's resources, what was submitted to in 2012. So I give it a lot of importance that we try hard at the job committee to look at the formula behind these fishing costs, whether it stays, and whether we're as close to it as we can to the actual season of fishing as possible, which I think all classes called in real time. Much is discussed about the waters of the sea and the goods there. Indeed, the recovery there has been vibrative. The export price in the catch prices and the crews of the crown have much to do with it. I was sitting on a fishing road day in Harpa yesterday morning. There was a presentation at Deloitte's place on the fishing road. It showed that, of course, the fishing industry has improved its own financial status by 341 billion and the article - we are talking about the average in this article - has paid over 86 billion in interest and invested for 95 billion in a few years. The status of marine vehicles has improved by 421 billion in less than a decade, and there is a positive result of 262 billion, but it was negative in 2008 about 421 billion. This is significant, since, although tourism has launched through export prices, fishing is a bearing river in the economy. That's why I say, if we've reached this recovery, we've come to a good place to get the current to the country. If this fishing bill had been in force in the last ten years, the nation would have received a half billion more than it has been during the past ten years. I think that's a lot to say about us having a good fishing bill in our hands. Then there is the need to face the situation of paying to the nation at a time's profit, with a fluctuating attitude toward the rest of the article. This connection with the governor - there was also one that was trying to get closer when the fishing charges were submitted in 2012. But now, at last, we have come to a place where information is based on the government taxpayer's information that I believe is very important. It was also evident during this fishing day, and there were many interesting occasions to listen to, to assign a budget to lawmakers, and in recent years there has been a tremendous delay. What does that mean? This means compression in the article. Where is that compression? She's with the smaller and medium-sized preparations. That's why I find all the talk about auctions and markets salt in this reality. We're fighting to protect a wide variety of shapes in the country. The variety of structure is of great importance to the entire country. We won't be able to live again that the trawler is in every fart, it won't be. However, small and medium-sized productions in smaller coastal areas can make a difference in their farms and economics in those communities. There are also many other forms of employment that need to be available. But this is of great importance to the smaller ones. Therefore, I cannot put the same logo on the performance of 10 or 20 of the largest enterprises in this article and their smaller ones, that it means the survival of everyone. They must try to look to the benefit of smaller ones. It can be done. As I understand it, these fishing groups are defined at the Haust Room and can be looked up from those with 30 tons and smaller pieces and seen as different from the largest. Why is this determined? Is it because these little ones have no right to exist, that they run their companies so badly and have nothing to be doing over their heads? No, I don't think so. They're just living in a whole different environment. These 10 to 20 productions, which have come with more than 80 to 90% of all assigned sources, have their own resources and have a completely different position. They have a chain of markets, foreign sales, market jobs abroad, with chains about their companies making them more money. These small fishing companies are mostly fishing and putting either the fish in the market or directly in the actual process, having no chains that increase their interest, and not with the economic benefits that come from making large - scale projects that have a completely different trust, have grown up in their own money, and have built up in all other ways. There are men, I believe, who agree that we want a variety of shapes. This does not mean that a person's appearance, though smaller, is inadmissible. Each person who works in such a project and related work - based on the resources under it - is even more valuable than is found in some freezer leader. It's just that way. This greatly strengthens these settlements. The article itself has shown that it is doing good things, being involved in eco-friendly fishing. It is also doing good things with regard to carbon balance, and other factors such as the use of dandelion boats does not pollute as much as this large freezer ship does. These substances may reveal a number of factors. Those who speak for the person I know that many people speak for, too - more often than not, you can build up a business on the basis of an individual and a family that works very well in smaller communities. I'd like to look at this about these small and medium-sized fishing projects on the job board, if you can meet the views that have already been shown to be willing to pay hunting fees in accordance with the implementation of this species of fishing. I think it's possible. We just need to take a real good look at it. There is another subject that has also been discussed, that is, how many people are renting from their current source of resources. There is a measure of concern, changing for something, that those who rent from other cities now pay for the hunt. In the past, the source of resources paid a catch price. This is different. Now the so - called tenants are improving - not enough of them to rent from others at high prices but also of paying for fishing. I think this is something to look at on this job on the committee, because it doesn't seem fair to me. Overall, I believe we're on the right track with the bill. I agree with that. paritaprevir Haraldur, son of Benediktsson, that I am deeply concerned with all the small and medium - size productions that have been being treated during this fishing year, or last, from September 1 September 2017 to September 1, this fall, very extensive increases, and some up to 200 to 3000%, though, on average perhaps 130% or so. Some have simply decided to try to endure; others have quit. We can't afford to do this, we can't watch this, in the fragile communities that are so wide and wide around the country. Is there some way that this year can be attended? Or can we do so by taking on this personality discount and strengthening it for these small and medium - sized enterprises in this bill and looking forward to the future? The way we consider this in this context is yet to be illustrated. But I agree with what. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson that this is a project that is urgent to consider in this context, whether we try to cope with it at the pressures of the next year or to take into account this increase in recent years. Regarding the high profits that have truly been paid from these large fishing companies, the general public naturally asks why they should not pay much higher fishing costs than it does, since they can make so much money. I think we need to take a look at it from the taxation of interest. They must be watched, because we can't do that by hunting costs unless we're totally going to destroy these small and medium-sized structures. I don't think that's someone's point. For these small settlements, hunting costs have been rather hostile. But large companies have handled them well. This has been observed by resource experts during discussions at a job station when we have been discussing fishing costs over the years. I'm not shy saying we have to take these small and medium-sized companies out of parentheses. If I were Granda president, I'd be very happy to have this bill as it looks. Unfortunately, other voices from the sector, from the big companies, may be heard, but I think people should take a good look at the bill and see that it's being very well done to extend the fishing fees that I think are in the best interests of all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u137	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for an excellent speech. We agree in many ways on these issues. I would judge that she has the same concern as I do for my work -- now one would hardly dare say small and mediumsized, for it has become peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u138	That's a good phrase.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u139	But I'd like to direct a question to the senator because we're on a professional committee together. Hv. When I asked him about Benediktsson benefits of change, Haraldur said that this would be on the job committee. Then I think, 20% of 4.5 million and 15% of something more, I'm afraid to say, very little. Is that the way to raise that percentage? Or in what way might we work to meet those smaller structures? I mention what was cut off over a year ago, which was a interest discount, can we start looking at it again? For indeed many of these actions are very debtors. Or what does the senator see? From what point could we work on meeting small and medium-sized structures? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u140	Mr. President. This is to be fought on a professional committee along with those whom we call for the committee and, of course, with a sea emissary. These discounts are not high, 20% out of 4.5 million and 15% of the next 4.5 million. It's going to work out the entire scale. Everyone's having it, the biggest iceboxes and everybody's getting it. It seems to me that this person's discount is an irreverent treatment of funds. I think there's more to it than that. Where the line will be drawn, I won't tell you, but I think it needs to be cut. We need to find out where the need is most urgent and to consider the possibility of a step - difference. But it cannot be exactly what it would look like. This bill, which appeared this spring, had an advantage of 300 million, reminds me, was added to this discount, and was intended to go only to those who paid 30 million and less a year for fishing expenses. I don't know if there's a final conclusion, but we just need to look at where this line would lie and how we'd use that money. It has been admitted that there is a difference between the potential of large productions and small productions in economic management and the amount of resources available to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u141	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. It was noted in the senator's talk about this concern that recent intervention - we are also talking about contraction - is very small in this article. Although new agents come into the beach fishing, it's not, as I was hoping, a window for continued development today. They play into the fishing costs and the high costs of making today and growing in loan institutions. I've got it in my face at a loan clinic, the bank manager said, "You haven't been better at taking a loan, so that's to say, 'cause I'm only a small, medium-sized person. Then I'd like to ask the senator -- No, now the power went out. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I've run up into a high-voltage line because I'm so tall. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Is that it? Is it over? [[Up front.]] [[A meeting is postponed.]] [[The lights are on again.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u142	There may be no need to postpone a meeting. We continue as if nothing ever happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u143	Thank you for that, chief. President. Maybe that's why you get on the news. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I was going to ask you what. A senator to those who pay the resource fee. As they say, fishers pay. I agree with the senator in it, this is in my mind unreasonable, but could we do the work we're asking for a change in it, or is it through other jobs if more things are involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u144	Mr. President. For those who rent fishing warrants, they also have to pay the price, not the one who has the target on his own - I think it needs to be examined. I'm afraid to tell you whether it falls under this bill or whether another case is needed, but I think it's a big deal looking at it, and then in context of this. Government social responsibility is high, and hunting costs are no natural laws. They are also a government decision. It may be the government's decision to preserve diversity in the modeling patterns and to support development in smaller fishing villages that have lost their way by changing the cost of fishing. The food for the nation is also in the form that it is built in these little communities. It is also part of the nation's success. It is not as if these little communities around the country did not pay much in currency money per person through the last tens of years. It would be nice to calculate how much currency has occurred to each individual in these small fishing villages around the country. No expense must ever be made to bend these settlements down. It is enough, as mentioned earlier, to fight natural and natural forces when they make their mark, but the fishing fees are supposed to be fair, to be motivated, and to look for different types, and the size of the larger and better - paying enterprises, but the profits are also to be paid in the form of hunting costs and profit paid to the nation through taxation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u145	Mr. President. I strongly object to the burden of taxation, extreme taxation, whether it is a fishing fee, such as the discussion or the other government's taxes, the government, that affects individuals or businesses. I believe that high fishing costs simply do much disintegration but little good, reduce the economic energy of the country, and thereby lead to lower biographers for the entire population. Before I discuss the bill like that, I'm gonna have this introduction a little longer and I'm gonna explain it a little bit more. The high cost of fishing is to impair the international competitiveness of Icelandic seabeds. This is an enormous point. 98% of all available resources in Iceland and fish products are sold on foreign markets. The Icelandic fishing industry is in a highly competitive environment, not only to comparable fish in our neighborhood of cod and other bottom-fish species, but to an increasing degree to fish fish, such as til·piʹa, salmon, or other fish that can be mentioned in this context. And not only that, but we are also in a fierce competition for other standards that people of this world take for granted. The level of fishing costs also reduces the ability of the article to invest. Why it matters. Yes, it is through investments that are developing, which are achieved by increasing the value of the limited resources we hunt from and thus also by innovation to achieve more production. This is not good when investments are minimized. There are other factors that have a very damaging effect, especially in the context of the high fishing costs that weaken the marine habitat, weaken their resistance development to produce a variety of fluctuations that occur in the natural environment of the resource efficiency. They can lead to the survival and survival of single men, those who have less opportunity to deal with such fluctuations. As a result, very high fishing costs can lead to monotonousness, convergence, and eventually, with less economic diversity, the nation is getting worse. In this context, we also do well when we enter the discussion and take this bill to the council to consider that the Icelandic fishing industry pays quite a lot of money to the Icelandic community and not just in the form of fishing bills. Other direct taxes are listed as corporate taxes, such as insurance fees, and other fees that pay on the article such as earnings, credit cards. These are the effects that this article has with the valuable work that was created, as well as the secondary effects of much importance to the Icelandic economy. At this time, we see that the flow of the seabed is getting worse and is getting worse rapidly. We saw this in a report from Deloitte on the fishing road yesterday that income in 2017 was dragged together by as much as 10% and that it was dragged by 9% from the previous year. The progress of this article is on the way down, and the profits are also high. That's very serious. This is not just a matter of what the currency of the state's budget and the state plan to cut out the article in the form of fishing fees but, unfortunately, it will have other and more extensive consequences. What the public can do, however, in terms of worsening external conditions, such as in the fishing field, is to adjust the rate of recovery, have a reasonable schedule, and a rhythm towards the survival of the article. That's what matters. If I get to the main subject of the bill, the main thing is to deal with the problem that is on the system. Today's system is very flawed, and in fact, all the methods used during the pressures of hunting costs have been very flawed. However, the system we live in today's world is particularly unfortunate because of the time delay between the conclusion of the article's survival, compiled by the Habitat in a report on the sea, fishing, and processing, which continues to go to a hunting committee making a suggestion for a minister of the pressures of hunting fees over two years from the amount of living that is put to the reference. It's a very unfortunate arrangement, and it's a happy thing to do in the highest bill. A search for a solution to this defect has been found by a seafaring minister, tailoring it off the system. This is the key. It's important. Another point is, as I explained earlier on how fishing costs are applied, to get the project fixed, to more stable limits, to make it more efficient, and to stop the system that we now have, which is rather uncertain how exactly it takes place. By trusting the administration in the way proposed in the bill, we receive better data from the taxpayers, the head of the state, which will be the State's headquarters for the implementation of the reformation process, and by testing and testing the information received along with the tax returns. I think that's a lot of legal action. During the discussion, it was concluded that by understanding that fishing and processing, another good change proposed in the bill, so that fishing costs will be laid solely to watch the fishing instead of the processing, there is the danger that an integrated fishing company can or has the temptation in front of them to move to the cost. But that is exactly by setting up a better application of the application in the administration, with the head of the state tax, which it will be a total crime to reveal misleading information, as is the case with the entire tax system. The government tax manager will have tools and tools to verify, bugging the information received from the developers. I believe a brain over the bill is a great improvement. There are other factors that are being fixed. It is the simple calculation of fishing fees by excluding non-fishing species. I think that's a great improvement To make this up, the bill has been proposed, to me, a key point that is found in the government contract of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, which says, by permission of Mr. President: The main objective of ensuring the nation's fair share of the resource's profit and their taking into account its yield should be reviewed. And furthermore, Mr. President, says with permission: To increase the value of products, the European Union has to develop the competitiveness of the seas on international markets and can continue to create innovation and product development. Mr. President. These two factors are the key elements behind the bill. We want to maintain a powerful, powerful fishing road that is competitive at international level. That is how we improve the quality of life of the public throughout Iceland. That is how we can trust in the individual market, trusting in one another to move forward with an increase in valuable things that benefit all. By taking the proposed step in the bill, by changing the management department on the way I have studied, and by changing methodology considering which data are presented, the possibility that the future will be considered to be the right to place fishing costs in such a way that each person's survival is being taken into account, to consider the particular business tax of the recovery if so. That is what has been examined, has been examined, and has been discussed. By taking the suggested step in the bill, it is closer than with the present system. There is a point in the relationship we should keep in mind to answer the question of why special resource costs are spent, and special fishing costs are laid on the seabed alone of those using the resources of the country. That is what we need to realize when dealing with legitimate criticism of this arrangement, on the fishing fee, when it is said to be a national tax. Naturally, builders ask themselves and the inhabitants of the coastal regions: Why is this resource use restricted to taxes? I think that's a legitimate question. The position of SMEs was presented in the discussion. They have expressed concern that their situation is bad, but there is no need to worry about the big deed. I'm of the opinion that there should be concern over all companies, that there is no reason to necessarily sort companies according to their size. It's a concern if all companies stand on their feet. Based on the observed analyses, including From the Deloitte Accounting Office, even larger companies that demonstrate a worse recovery. Mr. President. This is a particular point that we need to consider, especially, as a professional committee needs to consider when and if it is needed to implement specific rules that are appealing or that may be burdensome by edifices. Let us take this discussion very seriously and take very seriously the indications that can be drawn from different partners on the worsening economy of the enterprises, a candidate in this country. There is a special need for the treatment of the problem to consider the impact of fishing costs on the land's habitats. There must be a special consideration. It must even be. to visit an analysis that I do not know any better than a home planning agency has won or can work on the setting of the cohesion in that context. I think there's something that a professional health committee would need to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u146	Mr. President. A number of points were presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator I find interesting, e.g. The claim not to charge other types of resource use. I'm sure truckers will be surprised to learn that there's no charge of miles for road use, and shops who take part in malares will be surprised that they don't pay for takeout. But this very important question is whether hunting costs are tax, which seems to be the red thread of a speech at the time. Senator. In general, taxes are generally taxed during the collection of expenses for either services or use of a limited resource. That way, I can totally say that a radio charge is not a fee, it's a nose tax. Of course, we should call things their proper names. But let us note that fishing costs are not just a joke of companies on a fishing road. They are very selective, they are literally charged with access to the resource. This is, therefore, no different from the subsidies of malaria or the exchange for electricity production. These are resources. They're limited. And, you know, take proben, they're the people's property. In general, it has been a political agreement that payment is paid for the use of resources, as if I would pay a hotel owner for the use of hotel rooms. But if this is a tax, then how is it that companies are not in general charge of this? For example, a farming company or a travel service? That's how taxes should work. And then I have to ask, in view of why. A senator, whether work in the health sector is of any less value than fishing work or technical work at procrastinators. Are they less valuable? Are jobs in tourism less valuable than jobs in fishing? Because they're making compromises. The senator seems to assume that they are somehow very heavily on a boat, so no charge of resource use is allowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u147	Mr. President. I am delighted and obliged to try to erase some misunderstanding in this discussion when it comes to asking if fishing costs are tax or tribute. There are only two things that can be considered, when we discuss the laws of the government, either the terms of service, which apply to certain rules, and if not a service fee, it is a tax to be viewed by the Constitution's votes. You can call it anything, you can call it the monster anything, you can dress it in any suit you think of, but under Icelandic law and government law it's always a tax. There's a key point in this matter. What the lawgiver must do, according to the constitution, is generally defined as how such taxes should be imposed by law. It must then be determined what the currency will be, how it will be found, who are the currency, and who are the principles of equality, the principles against law recovery, and then the repercussion must be determined by law. It's a tax. The tax is nothing more than money. You could call it anything. It can be called a national tax, called a resource tax, a resource tax. But this is always a tax. There's a key point in this case, and don't be, I think, to go further into this. Asking whether jobs are more valuable than others is asked. The last thing I'm going to do here is judge what is valuable and what is not. I don't have any grounds to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u148	Mr. President. That was a bit of an interesting answer from what? Senator. This may even remind us of the first year of our study of law, which is extremely anxious for technical definitions but may be less interested in how things work in praxize. But I'd love to, if the lawyer and what. A senator would inform me of the terms of the Constitution that only taxes or services can be paid, just because I don't know better, I'm not a lawyer. But since I have what? A senator would also like to ask him about his desk. Now this is a phenomenon, that they don't eat, or that they have access to a saying - they don't have it, as it were, 1st. legal about the control of fishing. They're renting them to parties, and tenants have to pay their hunting fees rather than rent them away. What's the matter? A senator on that arrangement? [[The president calls.]] Why not change it to be the landlords who paid for this fishing fee?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u149	A respectable president. About what? A senator, or a tax collector, may be able to look it up himself. So that's probably 40. the constitution to consider these topics. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It can also be referred to a judgment sentence given by the Supreme Court, and so on. In my opinion, commodities are very natural, as is the free gift of rights, whether by the hand of the legaholics or otherwise. I want to point 'em. A senator says that for the rent there is a legal law on the control of fish fish, certain fishing duties are put on the hands of the saying, "I'm going to hunt for 50%." Who is it that eventually pays the catch fee? [[The president calls.]] Is it the landlord or the landlord? Of course, it can be implemented in their contracts, but it will always be reflected in the rent price in the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u150	President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I specifically agree with his comments on resource costs to other sectores, where I agree fully with him. Of course, these issues should be balanced, i.e. that the state is collecting in some form of the use of the common resources of the nation. It is in accordance with the decision of the resource centre at the time that it is very important to ensure this common ownership in a clear way, that these resources are certainly common resources and of the national community, and to that end, they also need to be combined. to ensure a natural deposit for the use but at the same time to ensure both the possession of the nation and the provision of temporary new agreements. This bill does not exist or in current law is being handled with the question of temporary rights, which is one of these fundamentals in the decision-making committee at the time. I'm asking why. A senator would agree or disagree with the conclusion that the results are worth looking at. Then you always wonder, in view of the fact that a series of whales. A senator has been in the government here quite a bit of the time since the Committee of Resources held his decision 18 years ago: Why have no resource expenditure been done on other sectors, such as this. the energy industry for us and the late discussion of some kind of resource exchange for travel services for the useful use of the common resource that nature seems to be?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u151	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is, as I came on, interesting to wonder about this, why the fishing road has one industry particular way out of parentheses about access, we can call it, to the resource. Does it care about the energy? Will the national energy companies pay for the efficiency of energy? How is all of this? It is normal, in my opinion, that we discuss this in this context. It also turns to what I came into this room that we could, in any form, be moderate, not damaging or damaging, or impair the competitiveness of any of the branches that are under their circumstances. Hv. A senator asks about timelines for use. Of course, I don't think it defended the pressures of hunting fees. This, then, is a much more basic matter of fishing. Is there a time for innovation? That's at least Not under law what that time is. It's not like that. Is the time of this resource infinite? Well, an infinite word. It may be difficult to be a administrative lawyer and say that time is infinite. But it's at least not determined by the law on that time. I know why. A senator wants to take a form of negotiation, go by the way the state takes over the resources, use the resources, and then he is eager to know the time limit, when to use the resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u152	Hv. In fact, a senator was able to guess my next question, for here the word national use is used. We're talking about the resource such as this being the national share. In this regard, all of us must agree. Whatever the way we put it in shape, the ransom turns to some kind of cost for the navigating as such. But that may be the nature of a so-called negotiation route, or an expiration route, or any word we want to use - I don't call it national use, when it belongs to the nation. I know why. A senator is a liberal and market keeper of the foundation. At any given time, the marine exit has been worth the resources of resources under the present fishing system. There, we have really just trusted our markets for a quest. Why can't we trust markets to run a mission when it comes to the fishing fee itself through such a system, such as the bargaining process, i.e. that the right of birth is extended to an appointed time, and that the article itself does so, according to its own perspective, what it is paying? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u153	Mr. President. I could not better hear the words of a man. A senator who was confessing that by going an auction route, a contract route, or an expiration route there was a national use of resources. If such a system is to be established, there can be no more than to do it. That is why. A senator is so eager to find out the duration of this renewal, so that the State can take him to heart, nationalized, and put this market route in motion. Then there is no more than national use of property, rights, and then there is the state that offers it according to some of its political rules. That's how I figure it. Senator. And I disagree with him in that approach. I think it's the wrong approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u154	A respectable president. This is not expected to remove charge, and the bill then draws the line at the bottom of the ships. Similarly, many of those who have ships have construction stations. This on its own creates a special risk of drawing the line to the side of the table, opening the door for large purchases of fish from their own ships, reaching a profit in the process, and also turning seamen's stock into collective agreements. Hv. A senator mentioned this concern and, in effect, believed that a government tax manager has the authority to examine their accounts for misleading information. Then I ask: Wouldn't it really be right just to add the bill some kind of defense device to prevent this possibility instead of just leaving it to the governor to reveal such behavior? Counts 'em out. A senator, then, did not feel too weak to cope with this potential problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u155	Mr. President. The answer is no. I have no reason to believe that the head of the state, one of the main government's agencies, is unable to rely on the project. The danger as we know it. A senator tore up his opposition is much more available in current law. It has the sources that are being installed here with the bill, the sources which are direct reference to income taxation, permission for the head of state to verify and bug-test the information received. It is criminal to cheat on taxes, and in my opinion, the government tax manager has every authority to prevent it from coming. There's a senator here. Is it possible to prevent people from succumbing to taxes? No, unfortunately, it cannot be done, but it can be punished and done as is being done in this bill, to reduce it. There is one more thing to mention, and this bill, of course, is to be found, and it is in Deuteronomy. ., that the nature of the government taxpayer determines the currency. Then it's the conversations of all agents that have been shared on a ship on each of the crops. It is not to be taken for each candidate and placed on him or his specific supply. This is the total collection for the publication of this article, and it is added to a fixed dollar of every kilogram.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answer is, although I cannot agree with the argument that there is no basis for such defense in the law. Regarding the discussion that took place earlier on the use of the word nationalization, the Supreme Court in 2013 said that in the covert of its authority, the Allegorical Council might decide to appoint fishing documents during a suitable lead-in period and after events reassigned. So I can't agree with national use. Counts 'em out. A senator that the Supreme Court was wrong on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u157	Mr. President. For the first part of the reverse cognition. We don't agree with a senator. I believe that the bill is adequate in terms of the sources that the government tax manager needs to have in order to ensure the correct management of information, and hence ensures the right decision of currency and pressures at the price of hunting. Of course, when discussing national uses in this relationship, the Allied Council is legally authorized to nationalize anything. Then we need to examine the requirements of the Constitution on the rights of property, which, when it is done, must, of course, be met with certain criteria for public interest, the benefits must be fully met. What benefits, then, will be needed when indirect property rights are taken from humans? What, then, will the State pay for it? That's a question. A senator needs to answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u158	A respectable president. There is indeed a heat issue, the fishing fees, which I prefer to call dues, not taxes. Before talking about the bill itself, I'd like to come up with some facts. Icelandic marine companies paid more money last year than they have ever done. The remarkable fact is that this is where the companies are supposed to be alert to protect and maintain their feet when they make 18% profit according to their EBITUDU. Then you ask yourself: " Are the fine senators who have claimed to suggest that you don't know how to run businesses and are throwing money into business on a succeeding foot? I don't think that sounds good enough. However, a total of 14,500 million dollars were given to the owners of marine export companies. K. Remuneration in 2017 due to performance of 2016 Since 2010, fishing sales for the owners have studied 80,300 million. K., 80.3 billion k. Since collapse, the same enterprise's financial status has improved by 341 billion. and they're on their feet. What kind of contradiction is that? What exactly is being set up for us here? What kind of interests talk is this? Why don't we let the numbers speak for ourselves and be happy that we're doing well? That's when I'm talking about the big thing. I'm not talking about those who fight on the banks. I'd like to have a discussion with what's said about not being allowed to discriminate corporate companies, not all of whom should sit at the same table. Do the companies do it in hours when they were assigned the first source, when we recorded the most important systems we live in today, when the big ones today received on a silver plate to 5,000 codhouses just because they had provided so fine and fine for the three years ahead? Modern fishing is in a very different place today. Such companies will be prepared to protect themselves. It costs as much for them to buy boats and tools as it would for them to pursue whatever fishing they want to, to get their job freedom, and to buy every single pound of animal judgment. That's a fact. But let us not talk about what it was like. Let us talk about what it was like. There is no discrimination. There is no way to talk about discrimination if you are going to try to meet those who are fighting in the banks and at the same time try to prevent the indiscriminate compression of a few parties on our marine resource. I said from collapse, the financial status of the companies that paid all this money improved by 341 billion, 341,000 million. What kind of numbers are these? Are we aware of how much money we are talking about? So my property improved by some 41,000 billion. K. last year. Thus, the quality of the fishing road has improved by some 421.3 billion dollars. In less than a decade, they say he's on his feet. You might say I don't go mad, but I'm not so stupid, with all due respect for myself at the High Council. It is noteworthy that by the end of 2008, the sector's personal financial status was negative but is now positive at some 262,000 billion. K., 262 billion. So I say, "What about those who are falling under the burden of fishing for them?" So I was lucky to accompany a professional committee to visit the southern West last week. Looks like a different person. We hear what the situation is and how bad it can be, how the fishing costs can be too heavy for some while others can pay off tens of billions of dollars for profit because they hardly notice the need to pay their fees, yet they seem to be too high. Let us see that we are always talking about the nation's combined resource. Despite the fact that 1st C.E. The receipt of the resource as a national share has been powered into disrepute. We are fighting to gain this law into a constitution, so there is no doubt about who is the real owner of the resource around the country. Now I'm going to turn my song into a cross and say that there's very little evil to the point where there's no good at all. We're about to get a bill that's going to replace the current fishing bill that expires at the end of the year. What do we see in the bill? What is positive is that we are moving our time to an almost real time when we aim for the increase of marine soil companies. Normally, two years have been looked at, even when the companies have fought in the backs - and then I'm still going to reiterate that I'm talking about small and medium-sized companies. We have little to do to help the bigger. It turns out that by laying such a spell on what the result was two years ago, we do not face reality. Today, we live in technology that it should be possible to move to a real time, almost to a day. In fact, in the fishing road today, they have already received complete payment for their next tour. For their previous period, 90% of the estimated catchability and the anticipated salary and when the next tour begins, the pay is complete and completely seen what this tour has done. It's a lot of talk about how poor companies are and how much money they pay. But does anyone here talk about sailors and how they're the only class in Iceland that I know about, which is an amazing part of the business she works for? It takes up to 70% in exchange, before changing to sailors. They pay dues, oil bills. They are even made involved in the new building and the valuable building of the enterprises they work for. Nobody talks about it, but maybe me. I'd like to point out what's on the bill. Here we have a new tablet, which releases what price to pay for each fish's species. If we begin, examine the cod skin from the current currency rate of 22.98 K. per kilogram, it is expected to decrease to 13.80 k., which is just a 40% reduction in the amount of cod to be paid when the new law is accepted. Let's see what we can do. For the accompaniment of 2017/2018 in the current bill, it was expected to pay 26.20 k. for a pound of exaggeration, now 16.15 k, which is a reduction of 38.4%. They're trying to make it appear that they're not lowering the rate of hunting. They're being dropped by a lot. That's a fact. A little at the end, because I don't have to give much longer talk. I'm from a little TV monitor I'd call today a fracture risk built. There, old men walk in the streets, unable to go to their cart or do anything. They go up into a nursing home and wait to be brought out in a box, whether they have health to catch and drag their fish out of the sea or not. This marvelous system that will benefit so wonderfully all the people of the land simply only some chosen individuals and their projects in the land. That's a fact. I say, after they were simply wiped out by the exposé, they were wiped out by a complete and half of the sights in the land, and they were wiped out. Today, the settlements are called broken - down. What are we doing about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u159	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for this discussion on bill for a hunting fee. In many ways, the Ministry has done a good job. Thank you very much. Ministers for it and his good staff who have contributed to it. I think the bill being presented here is far better than what has been offered before. There is always a debate over the ways in which we are going to collect a fee for the use of a resource, which we agree is a fair fee to be made and to be a fair wage, both to the developers and to the fishermen, as well as to the owner of the resource, the nation. It is, of course, so, as shown in this discussion, that everyone wants to pay taxes on others other than himself. Here in this hall, the debate since I came in here five years ago, first at council 2013, is determined by everything that needs to be done in this community, and by improving and spending more money on resource resources, or by hunting fees on the resource. I don't feel sorry for the arrangement to pay the natural price of resources any more than the rest of us who pay taxes from our income, that it's the right thing to do. Of course, the price must always be considered. I'd like to draw attention to what was said earlier, since I was in the last fish business 15 years ago, almost all the machines and machines that were used by the fish industry in Iceland were from abroad, virtually everything. There were some heads and they were just starting to produce the first flow lines in the cryo-houses, but otherwise they were all foreign machines and we called the workers in the Baader fish industry, by German quality machines that were in every house, a lot of machines. Today, there is a innovation in the New World Society. It has spread into other articles around the world, and it has developed in the shelter of powerful companies, who have stood by wand companies and have made them very large and great so that they can produce the best they can produce to process seafood. We know these companies, Marel and others. When you come to a fish farm today, you can hardly see foreign machines; Icelandic intelligence, production, which, of course, we are all very proud and contented. With all the technology that has taken place in the fishing field, in the boats and in the ships, and in the processing, the work has decreased, perhaps to a dangerous extent, but their numbers have decreased, and their efficiency has increased, the production is huge. In fact, the marine road is the only commercial means in Iceland, which has the production that matters in competition and in comparison with other countries. Let us not forget that as long as we are talking about this powerful article, we also need to make sure that the righteous contribution of the resource will always be guided when we are paying taxes or fees. In the bill, the cost is largely due to our rising from the sea. It's a little different than it used to be. The bill accepts the stocking ships at sea, their object is corrected for the first system. In the processing directives, income is reduced by 10% and the processing process is taken out of the equation. I'm not sure that this level of their position completely towards ice-fish tigers, and I assume that in the case of a professional carer, this position will be considered more carefully. Exactly the same is true of the revenue of seaships by 10%, also to equalize the yield as well as their share. But this is something that we may need to consider. The survival factors that were earlier, and we're dropping out, set before 2016 or 2015, which I can't remember, were built into the seawater fishing vessels were proportionately paying higher than the bottom fishing costs. The bill also expects 33% of the currency to be taken at the end of the company's business accounts. But, in fact, it's a larger national tax - where the production is the most powerful and strong, that's where the most money is absorbed. It is also worth the mention of what many other members of the council have entered today, that this bill is a free income limit for smaller and medium-sized companies. It is very important to protect our smaller designs, and this is one of the points we will consider on a professional committee, whether we are doing enough of it. If that is the case, there will be a modification motion. It has also been observed that the survival of these ships in two years decreased by 18%, or the reduction in valuable things has been by 18%. It is also thought - provoking. I have personally, a respectable president, pointed out that there are, of course, other ways to charge in fishing fees. I realize that in the government contract, the fee is required to be paid according to the country's survival. Of course, it is also possible to think that the currency is only clean and direct access to the resource without specifically determining the consequences. Our taxes are nothing compared to what individuals owe or what they owe; they are just on the income, and then we pay the taxes regardless of whether we owe them much or not. That's how I often thought that the access to the resource was just a price paid to catch the species. We know these simple paths that do not always seem to be popular in the system. The payoffs are a percentage of the value of land from seawaters every day at each level. It would be possible to do the same for hunting fees, to go that simple way. Each day the price of a fish market is to determine how much money it will pay every day. If it was stuck, the dollar will raise or lower the amount of money on the island. This might also be a slight scale and have a longer price period in which the average value of the last three months would control every day of the price. Thus, if ever there is to be found, the only true righteous price would be paid. That's not part of the discussion here. But I think it's right for me to take this opportunity and to arrive, for, of course, there are other ways to achieve the cost in a simple and good way. I think the debate today shows that members of the Parliament realize that this is a bill that significantly improves the situation, in many respects, is more just. I know that those who have to pay feel the price is too high but many others may think it's too low. It's that golden medium we're going to find in this bill. We will now take the matter into account on a professional committee and examine it carefully. There are some parts that I think we can look more closely to the simplicity of this system. It has to be said that when you look at the price table quoted here, which is the price per species, I would have felt - to simplify this system and because in some of these species it is natural impossible to calculate the cost of reaching them, it is often the force or extra power of each period - normal to simply set such species for some minimum price, just one price. There may be a dollar or two cents, or whatever we can find out, but to put, for example. Warm to 12K. and catfish at 8 cc. I can't figure out the difference there. These species are often being sold at similar market prices. The lobster is placed in 18 jars. or less than a quarter of a year, he's not even on the reservation now, because he may not be caught next year. I'm sorry, the lobster stock is just missing, it's getting lost. He's had such an attitude that there seems to be little left of him. The rate of high fishing costs of a species that has crashed cannot be determined. It is almost sad to see how the lobster has collapsed in recent years. We need to take a very close look at it. In this way, you can also ask yourself: " How is this supposed to be thick enough to pay 24 jars? Hunting fees. I can't quite figure that out, either. I think it would be possible to clean up a pill like this, simplify it, take a hunting fee from the main species we're talking about, and make a difference in all of this. Those of us raised in the coastal areas, where we have worked on hard floors at fishing stations or on rolling tires at sea often think that simplicity is best, that things are done so that people in the country understand them, and when they hear news about hunting costs, they understand how they work. It's not supposed to be so complicated that they don't understand anyone but - like the laws in force today - there are two men and a god who can understand them. We need to make these adjustments. Here's a nice fishing bill that we're gonna take in and we'll discuss more with a professional company, probably over the next few weeks. I hope we can do something about it and make a good bill better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u160	V.E.G. President. We'll have a bill here to set up a fishing fee, and I'd like to take a quick explanation. At the same time, I'd like to thank the highest. Minister for his speech and the talks I've been hearing today. When the minister was giving his speech, he did a little about it. I just want to go over the story because I remember a little bit back in time in these matters, on the fishing road. I was listening to news before 1970, and I remember that during those years there was a powerful sea - out minister. Then there was talk of a tug - picker coming to each of the settlements, and there was no quota system. Fish were not established for counseling. The times were relatively free in this regard. At that time, when there was a tugper in each area, this did not go very well. Some did well, but others did not. And so it was with the development, both great and small, around the country at these times, when I was starting to observe in the news, that it was going very different. And what was done when things went so different? In the worst of times, it was more and less in the arms of the government, and in many cases the plan was to function in order to bring about the rightness of the development, so that the export could go on and the article will continue. And who brought the harm to those gangs? Yes, it was the people of the country, it was the people. That's how it went, and I remember when I went to sea myself, in 1980, people wondered what to do. In 1984 the greeting system is put on a similar pattern today. Some time before measuring the size of fish stocks, they advise on what each stock should be given. In 1991, or at that time, all the species in the big system that we call today have been called. In 1995, food is set up on hook - bearing subs. In those early years, they had been in a system of bans called. In 1995, seafood is set on hook - bearing boats; it was only cod, but shortly thereafter on more species, exodus, catfish, and other such species. Almost all species have come to dinner. In the light of history, this article began to work well. She started becoming self-sustaining. I remember a big change -- because I remember this before the greeting system was put on - and you started to be able to do some plans, those who were making out. I'm talking about sustainableity: When the deed came into place, people, if they were damaged or had to invest in something, could rent a reservation to finance what was needed if it wasn't very large. They did not have to go to the bank and beat the villil, as many had to do with different receptions. And if you still had to go to loan agencies, you could have a different attitude; even if you were offered coffee that had not been available before. During those years, the basic conditions of the development changed dramatically. And then the years go by, and make-up is about to show better results. Yes, yes, I remember being concerned about compression. I remember the first time I was at a council five years ago, that I spoke of the compression. I feel the same way when I discussed these matters. The discussion of this article is very negative and has been very negative for many years. I feel that much of it is the political thing to teach and the groups against this system. They do not have the advantage of the way they have talked about this system over the years, because people in society are not always meditating on what things are all about. Rather, they listen to what they hear, perhaps buying the cheapest explanations, the shortest explanations, the things being spoken of. I think the debate on the seabed has been very high. When talking about resource bills around -- well, I don't remember when, but first, the resource charge came in 2002. Then it was stated in the 2012 new law. Since then, it has been said that it is only fair for the nation to receive money from the resources - that all the people have, and I completely agree with them. What I find to be often forgotten in this discussion is that there must be something involved in a job that can pay a resource fee. There must be something right with the system in an article that can cover resource costs. That is why I find all discussions to be unwarranted, especially as I heard in the talks below, when they talk about taking part of the salad distribution, increase, or something else, and going on an auction route. To me, it's nothing but to pull the cables away from the system. If you take one foot under a chair with four legs, it'll be very unstable. All right. What I have tried to say in this speech is that this system is not flawless, but it has worked very well. When I was understanding the bill, there were two things that I felt improved. It's a more efficient system, it's closer to time, and the fish industry's taken out, I think it's a good thing too. I'm still worried about what's been going on in front of me, and I've made an answer. There are smaller designs. V.E.G. A seafaring minister has said that this will work evenly over everyone, which it certainly does on this bill. It costs, this is a price to catch fish from the sea. At the same time, the minister says that it is necessary to go fishing for salmon. I asked yesterday about the activities of the council: "Who is going up to catch salmon? Not everyone can afford it. I think that we, as members of the Committee, as well as a drought, will need to continue when these discussions end here today - hopefully, they will and will go to the professional committee - to be content with how everyone can reasonably enjoy this payment, large and small. If I had desired to see the country, from the end of the tribute, I would have my portion of the cake, and the rest of it done. In many respects, the bill is quite good. I have perhaps thought of other ways that I have found easier when I have been contemplating these things with my associates. I'm not gonna talk about it here. After this discussion, we on a professional committee are covered, and I hope that the matter will be well paid off.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u161	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. A candidate's speech and approach. It is true that the present fishing system is not faultless, but it has been very successful in doing so overall. Icelanders can, in fact, act proudly in the international field, serving this system of government. I'm going to take care of them and share them with me. A senator says that the ideas that have developed in a discussion about fishing costs here today are unconcerned. The advocates of their ideas seem ready to produce the results on the altar of wishful thinking that is not explained well. In many ways, I worry deeply. A senator for the survival of a number of organizations in the country. I've mentioned that it's like buying a fishing permit, whether it's salmon or trout, whether it's expensive or cheap. When buying permission to go fishing for water, there is no commitment to whether you have a lot or little fishing or how you have equipment, etc. It's just a price to pay, whether it's 1,000 bucks. or 100,000 k. The river and thought in the resource charge are the same. I'm asking why. A senator sees how he sees the need to become a member of this bill, as he put it, to make the country a place of pleasure. What do we need to adjust in another way in this bill so that we can, by the hands of the Generals, meet wishes first? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u162	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. The minister asked me what I could see in the bill that could meet my dissertations. The bill speaks of a vacation target, 20% of the first 4.5 million, and 15% of the next 4.5 million. I could see that percentage increase or such measures, to raise it. Then there's another factor about the debt made last year, reminds me of what happened in the ago winter year. In other words, interest discounts or debts from loans made for a greeting. Something like that. As soon as I get this question, I think of this two things, so those with medium-sized and small-sized types get along reasonably. There are so many problems today in business, and often in many cases, it is the drop that fills the meter. I feel that governments need to meet that fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u163	A respectable president. There's a lot of shit going on, and it's blacking out, that's right. The process is actually dealing with a trend that has taken place over the last two years, and we see exactly what is happening. It's more compression. True, it is primarily involved in the labor market system. It's not the big giants that are flogging it the way the weather often is. On the contrary, it is in the small system where this compression is very rapid. The difference, however, is that when we discuss how to apply ourselves in making the process possible for these downturns, we are trying to sort them according to our ability to live under expenses. We can watch this from the other side. Larger productions are being made by divulging people or contracting in their activities, but smaller productions are having problems with them. The problem that we as Ruler, lawgivers, face is that we're filing for the use of a common resource, and that's where everyone's supposed to be equal. In some cases, small outputs may be large in their community, and in other cases large productions, which we believe, may be a burden in a small community. There is a problem, and so I have always asked when people discuss this: If we are to act in this way - it was in its time, this holiday goal, people talk today as if they need to add more to it - why and why is it due? As this was over in 2014, it did not seem to have returned what was expected of them. So, then, is there not something else in the work or in the community that causes this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u164	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. Yeah, that's right, there's a lot of convergence in the hook-up system. But within those limits, there is also a large structure, their standard, its system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u165	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u166	As I said in my talk earlier, a sense of compression has been in the article for a number of years, and there are many reasons. As I came in, it is also that negative debate. They sell themselves away while they possibly can, thinking that they're definitely going to take it off. This has often been why men have sold themselves out of it. When the Law came in 2012, it was obvious that small and medium - sized structures would hardly be able to handle the cost. Then it was attached to what we call a discount, a stamp, I can't remember what it was called them, and then the debt discount, to meet this size of outlaws because they don't sit at the table like the big ones. It's just that even though the calculation was not the case. In fact, it was during a very difficult time in society, but the price was also high and higher for the cod, which was met. Yes, we have a problem, but I think it needs to be viewed as if it's the case with each of the types of thrown-offs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u167	Mr. President. It's interesting to hear a metaphor. A senator says that if you pull one foot off a four - footed chair, the chair will be more selective in view of the system's impact. There's a senator talking about how I just seem on one foot. It is the firm political decision taken by the minister and the General for each species of fish each time. It's the only leg on which the system operates, and it's really nothing more than a Communist approach to charge over a decision every time, but I still wondered. A senator can explain to me only the reasons why he was opposed to the proposal that has come from me and many others. Subjects and political parties over the years to add more feet under this chair, e.g. an area where the rate is set using the market method. In his talk, he mentioned that he was not impressed with offering a certain portion of the quatan into a market that would be one way to obtain the value of the fish for the market, for the fishing, and for those who are hunting the fish. He said he was opposed, but he didn't argue why this was a bad idea, and I would like to know the argument against it because I don't know anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u168	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The resource money is calculated from the market prices of the catch as it is sold on the market and not made up inside the political bitch, so I just answer that question. The auction route? There has been mention of the Faeroe Islands, who have placed some of the updrafts on the auctions of the Barent Sea, herring, mackerel, and coal. Entires have not done this in their own neighborhood, and two or three of their productions have made an offer for these species. I can't see how to aim for what we're doing on the coasts of Iceland. They are not doing this to the tickets in the Faeroe region, and they are saying goodbye to 10,000 or 20,000 tons of cod. When I said one foot off a chair, I meant that the system was on four feet, on the chair, four chairs, and then something was spent in a system that could pay the nation's resources. [[Which four legs are these?]] It's really the thought behind those four legs I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u169	Mr. President. For example, I often have very poor illustrations, so I know this problem. I agree with what. A senator, of course, is desirable for us to live in a fishing system that can depend on resource expenses, and of course it is positive. However, what is wrong is wrong. A senator believes that this is a market taste section because it is a process of inspecting a company's income and profits after various sections have been withdrawn, which are politically determined, and then are calculated in some political way and then found to have some conclusion as to which currency should be per kilogram by a particular political formula. This is not a market method to set a cost but a political method. Yes, well, certainly, there is one number from each company into this which is not politically determined but is determined on the market and it's the overall economy, but you can't look at this system and say that it's not a political thing. It's just not possible. Yeah, maybe you can say that, but then it's just not true. What they're talking about when people are talking about an auction route is not necessarily talking about excerpts, talking about coal and sild, no, no, they're talking about developing extenuating methods in line with the subject of auction-offs, expediting methods that help provide sources to obtain market prices for the fish, market prices that decide what is paid for the State for those fishing grounds but who might like it if we're only a part of an auction to evaluate the price of the other price. [[The president calls.]] Then we've taken the politicians a little out of contact in this context rather than making up our own way of calculating.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u170	V.E.G. President. Yeah, what's political in this is just the system itself, but the price is not political, it's market-based. We saw it on a table at the Ministry. When this bill was being explained to us, it was taken into account by a pound, and a price was found out from the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u171	With these political formulas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u172	With these political formulas? I'm not going to blow my mouth at what? A senator on whether political formulas can be referred to when speaking out of the market and the average calculated. I can't see it. As mentioned earlier, I feel that there is a need for more evidence that the market route is effective. So when people are talking about the market route, it's based on what's being rented on, between outputs, the catchmarks are within the year. Those who control this price are those who rent it to themselves, for they trust to catch the fish by paying this certain amount for it, and no one will decide it but the tenets that rent it to them. If I think it's too expensive to rent to me a pound of cod, or 10 tons of cod, because the price is so high, I won't if it doesn't pay for me to pick him up to sea. No one controls it except me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u173	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize hunting fees. This is not the first time the members of Congress are here to discuss this matter. The cost of fishing has probably been debated for decades and how to calculate it. That may be the main problem of all this discussion. We are constantly in the position that the Council should have the opinion of whether the fishing fee is right right at the moment, whether it will give the dollar number that is the fair share of the nation in a common resource or a combined resource. I like to spend the time together in this discussion, and it may be nice before you think of a little more of the basics that have been involved in this discussion over the years. Almost all the professional committees that have studied these matters in the past two decades or have concluded that, first of all, it was absolutely necessary to ensure that the marine resource and not just the marine resource but the natural resources in general are the common property of the nation. In contrast, the long - term requirement to be transferred to the constitution to make it clear that the nation's ownership of this common resource is taken unambiguously; however, it has been discussed in detail in a number of committees how to use the resources and how to obtain a fair price. In most cases, it seems to me that the result was the same. It would be desirable that the birth warrant would be temporary in a clear way and that the currency would reflect in some way the duration of innovation. In other words, the longer use period, the higher payoff is expected. As a result, it creates a sense of responsibility and stability for the sector that uses these common resources. That is another basic aspect of this discussion that must always be kept in mind. It is absolutely necessary for companies working in the utilisation of this resource that in their management environment, there is the ability and stability. There is no stability when politics are justified and holy to argue over the basics of this system, and I don't see that this bill will change anything in this regard. There is still a debate over the same thing in my mind that there is a secondary point in this matter, i.e. whether the centenarian here is the only correct number. I hate the discussion about whether we're chargein' too much or too little. I think it is only wise that we leave it by means of marketing routes, not just by sea transport, but by other industry that uses common resources, to cover the value of the Neos rights from one time to the next, taking into account the survival of the current hours, and even more importantly, for the longer- term sector, which also matters. This is not just some temporary taxation of the economy or some kind of resource-abundant thing. The year. It also counts the long term outlook in the environment of these factors, whether in fishing or in energy or in the management sector. Of course, it is happy that the fishing system we have lived in in recent years and decades have produced an abundance of resources in the fishing waters. The trade of seas has been far higher than the profit of other employment in this country, at least Substitution of 151⁄220 years. It is a cause for rejoicing. This is one of our key pieces of work. In the end, the issue is about what constitutes the fair share of the nation's resources. It is quite clear when we look at the resources that the resource resources are considerable. It's devoted to one simple thing that I think most people should understand here in this room, the ingredient is free. Fish are in the sea, and for that raw substance, only the price that is considered to be fishing costs is paid. Of course, the cost of applying is similar to that of attending it, which is true of most other jobs. Few manufacturing plants, such as fishing exports, have access to free raw materials. That's what has to do with the fair share of the nation in common resources and how we value it. When you look at this bill, it can be said that it is an improvement from the present system, I think it can be totally hiccupless. This means being closer in time that is positive. It's not fair that we're going to be making paybacks two or three years ago, as in the current system. Technically, this is certainly easier to carry out, but there are other factors to consider. What I really feel is that it's such a economic solution to the spread of resource costs, though it's a faulty system. They do not take their stand on the basics of national property, temporary sources, and in some way the market is open to any fair sharing, so that the council is not justified and holy to argue about that matter. Unfortunately, the debate seems to have been fixed at that point, but not to what kind of system we want for long-term resource use and resource charge. Nor is it true in this discussion that by opening up a discussion about changes in the current fishing system, it is being overthrown. It's clear when you look at conclusions like that. Our best resource economics - hence, these ideas always come forward again and again - that time is set aside for the newest contracts to be 20 to 1.25 years old does not overthrow the life of the sea. I think such a system would work in the foundation very much, like the present hosting system in a free forwarder. This article speaks of compression, and it is true, it has become, and it will probably continue to exist. It is one of the characteristics of the saying that the dinner looks for where it's most practical. It will always be, and will be limited only with the fences we set and have set up for, for example. Maximum share in individual isolates. Without doubt, it would be comparable in the market system, as was the case with the restoration, and many others have spoken over the years. Here, big words are used like nationalization. I'm just saying, where's the possession? Is this not the country's common resource? How can a nation use what belongs to the nation, and all here are easily talking about being the common property of the nation? It's not national use. We will have to find another way to lay down the resources in this article, in order to preserve this fair share of the nation in it. I also wonder about the need to change so quickly, it's always set out, so the decision needs to be made just next month. This article speaks of the coming article, using strong adjectives, describing some kind of crisis in the industry. It is true that, like all other exports in the country, the trends in the world's gangs have been high in recent years, but it is good to remember that on this day, at the end of September 2018, that in the first eight months of this year, there has been a weakness and a catchment of the seabed, 23% more than it was at the same time in the previous year, and we are talking about the survival rates of this article in the past year. We have other clear examples of the improved product of the article, which is of great joy, e.g. in an investment presentation for the sale of the Avvik to HB Granda. It shows that the EBITDA company during the first six months of this year is comparable to that of the entire year. It seems to me that there's a pretty clear sign that the chapter of this article is getting better and that's getting a lot better. This is a cause for rejoicing, but at the same time, some emergency arrangements may not be necessary to meet the worsening position of this article. This is what I really wonder at the most in this discussion. There is never so much inspiration about some kind of emergency to other sectors when they are in trouble. Traveller's got serious problems, including ... becauseoftheplan's strong gang. Long ago it has been pointed out that our software industry, technology and sceptres, has actually not grown anything that can be promised over the last four years because of the high gangs of the crown. I have not seen any arrangements on the part of this government or any former governments to deal with that problem. However, there is no room for any tax change for the individual sector to deal with what is common to all of us: Unswerving coins with their high interest costs. Let's take the root of the coin problem, but I guess we can't talk about it here. There are some factors to consider in the technical exports of this bill. Of course, a person may stop first, it is at least a pleasant coincidence, that the decision number in this bill is over 7 billion which is the same number as the government expected in the budget and the budget bill for the next year. It just tells me in simple terms that this bill was calculated from the beginning to return the 7 billion results, regardless of all the other sizes. I just wondered how the methodology will then be held on the road that may be of utmost importance. I'm not going to get stuck in the debate whether the resource charge at a point is too high or too low, I'd prefer the market to cover it. Secularly, it is difficult to intend to separate the supplies of cohesive development from the process. No matter how much government sources get for research and information, it's just a serious temptation in moving the cost of processing into development. It is very difficult to plan on taxing some of the work done here. If indicated, a word can be said. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson has to think of this as just the first step on this road, we're actually heading for a specific income tax on each available company. It will further amplify this problem. Then there appear to be a variety of predicted sizes, e.g. to reduce the value of the processing vessels, to increase value in the resources of up-to-dates. All of this seems to be, we can say, capital numbers, and not a very solid foundation. It is never particularly good when we have entered a currency system that is based on such appeals for the cost of the work being paid. I feel like it's a fundamental concern of this bill that there's been a transfer of resource charge to some kind of special income tax. How will we make it available to other professional sectors in the future? This must be fundamental when we are going to ensure the nation's fair and natural share in the resource use of individual sectors based on the use of natural resources that we are truly paying expenses for the resource, we are charging for this upcoming rights. Not that it's some sort of independent income tax in a unique industry. Therefore, I fear that the results of this matter, if they succeed, will simply be an ongoing argument over the same matter, whether it is the right payer or not. I think it would be a bit more sensible if we went to that job, in a broad political partnership and consultation that is completely lacking in this matter, to find a new and better way to pay the currency, where the prices of the resource use from one time to the other attack the market, reflecting the results of the industry, both seabeds and others, from one time to another, as well as long - term prospects for them. Of course, it is a matter of personal interest that many groups of people change their mind on this matter, and it often seems that whether they are in a government or a government position or even with whom they are in charge, whether they are a follower of this system or something else, but I'm not going to go further into the psalms here. It would be fine, though, if we were to discuss these fundamental points rather than be trapped in credit numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u174	President wants to point them out. Councilmen are to witness to others. They do so by full name and/or number and districts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Wazowski's Víglundsson for a number of very familiar talks. He went through many areas and in his language, as did other members of the Parliament at the same time, and in accordance with viewpoints. Councilmen of the United States, are having a little discussion about the changes they have to make in the fishing system. I'm good with that, their classes and theirs. Of course, members of the council are free to make adjustments or discuss the suggestions found in the bill. I'd like to ask you what. The chairman of this bill, which is already under way and we are discussing. I decided in his case that he felt that the bill was for improvement. Hv. A senator said much good things to do, but he also felt that there were technical issues to be adjusted. But what's the stand? A senator to the bill? Can he imagine accepting it in the present form? Does he feel that he is making certain changes, and what changes does he prefer to make at this moment? I mention in the context of what was said in the case of the day. paritaprevir Oddokur Oddný The G. Harðardóttir earlier during the discussion, but I heard no better than that there was a change in the bill saying that the currency rate should be raised to 50%. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson, if he would agree to the change from what happened. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. Hv. One senator says that he does not want to get caught up in the discussion about whether the cost is too high or too low but then works hard to achieve the fair share of the nation in using the resources of the resource. Then I come to the question: Does he consider the current fee that has been collected this year to be a fair share or not? [[The president calls.]] Does he think it's too high or too low?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u176	President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not going to get caught up in the discussion about the figures in these materials. As for my position on the bill, I can say, basically, I object to the methodology. I don't think it's a problem. I don't solve the basics we're dealing with when it comes to some kind of stable long-term system for the receipt of this novel. I don't think such a approach meets the basics to keep in mind and perhaps least through the article itself, i.e. that is likely to create the article stability and destiny. I think we'll continue to argue about that case if this is the result, simply because our vision is over and over and over against what is right or fair, or whether the price is high or low, etc. Right away. A senator asks me about the current fee or the UN's ideas for a special increase or change of bill can I answer that I would be out of the price of a fishing warrant that the project would be all there to pay more for this if she was offering it on a free market. But it is only my guess that is equal to each other. I have no idea. It's just going to be the result of the market. That's what I think is finally the most intelligent system and our only way of getting something that could be considered normal or fair, what is the article itself, those who are in such a operation, ready to pay for newer resources in free competition with the other operators in this article? It's that mine knows the proper price. We politicians can have endless opinions about whether we believe that by making decisions, we have met at one right point or another. I don't think we'll ever make any sense of that. [[The president calls.]] I think that a lot of normal is looking for the articles to pay themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u177	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answers. It brings me to my attention. A senator did not directly answer what it is about the bill that he does not want to take sides with. I realize he's against the ideologies, he's gone through it, and he's seen changes in the fishing system. But now, fishing costs go out at the next year and will not remain the same. I get it. A senator rightly agreed that he will appear here at that time with a real proposal, fully developed proposals for a changed system? It will be interesting to see suggestions on how this will work out. There is another question that I would like to ask first. A senator does not want to discuss what is the appropriate number of dollars. He spoke in a talk that making money in the fishing field was good, a way for fishing. if I understood him right, and that's an important point. Fortunately, the production of fishing roads is tremendously good. Happily, the marine road is competitive at international level. Then there's my question. A senator: Does he consider the production in the fishing road too high? He might want to turn her down? Does he agree that at some point in time, governments can simply reduce the production of taxation or complex regulations? Does he agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u178	Mr. President. We will, of course, follow up on a job committee. Here we are only in 1st. and I'll wait on my stand until I see how the exact bill will be implemented. We see a number of problems in that. On the other hand, the choices are obvious for the next year's development, either by extension or by improving it. I realize from a realistic point of view, that we are not about to introduce a new system from next New Year's Eve. However, we should be discussing how we are going to have our system extended instead of continuing to stop it from year to year. The bill has various technical defects that I want to see how the employment committee works. When it comes to a question, why? A senator's answer to whether or not I consider the future of the fishing road too high is no. I rejoice when commercial production is just as great as it is in the fishing industry. It is not a secret to make great production in the fishing road, for example. Thanks to a great fishing system, I've never masked my opinion. This system has produced good results, but it does not mean that it cannot be corrected. You're right. According to one U.S. senator, governments may be too burdensome and quirky taxation, low vision, constant change, etc. reduces the incentive to increase the production of industry, including fishing grounds. Therefore, it is extremely important to achieve a solidarity in the long-term resource payment of the marine road, that these issues are not to be argued between the year and year, as they have been in the past two decades, and it seems to me to be a continuation of this. I also have strong conviction that the ideas we've put out on the market have led us to be aware of what we have seen, stability, and a sufficient length of time to ensure that this article will continue to develop in the same way that it has been doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u179	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's hearing he's giving me right now and also the talk earlier. I like to be able to discuss here the ideas we have on the management of these cases when it comes to hunting costs, how to collect money for the use of the nation's common resource. That's why I'm taking advantage of this opportunity to discuss it with him. Hv. A senator says that this is not likely to settle, and then he points to the bill Review on auction and market routes. I think it's a tiny smell that men think their way is the right way to make peace. This is a way of looking back ten years and finding an average of four governments, including a government as a revered regimen. Senator, sat in. Hv. A senator does not want to talk about numbers, but if this system had been with the people last year, the fishing rate would have been over 3 billion. But let's not get caught in numbers. I often fall into that pit, a respectable president, when I'm talking about my ideas that I think something is somehow, and then I say something and expect people to understand it. I'd like to understand what it's like. A senator and a reverend are going to get this market price right now. The members of the party will be referred to. How do we do it again? We've been talking about a year's fishing fee, but how do we get this market prices? And when the market shall find the right price, shall it be heard? I had a conversation with what? paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson about whether we were offering some literature. Is the price there to get the right price? What fences are there? I'm asking because I know why. I'm sure a senator knows more about the market than I do. I'm asking of real curiosity: How do we capture this market price? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u180	Thank you. A senator resists. It indicates that everyone thinks his bird is beautiful in this, but we on the restoration do not have this bird alone. Other categories have developed this idea, including The Company, a forwarding party, came up with similar ideas, e.g. In the work of the then seafaring minister, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. As I understand it, a pack was, in fact, set. A senator also as a requirement for temporary negotiations. A number of categories have looked to an arrangement based on temporary agreements, probably by different means. The application we have under restoration is based on all basics comparable to that expressed by a consultation point on increased prosperity expressed as an idea seven years ago or so. It's well developed and reasonable, as far as I'm concerned. How does the price of fishing warrants become such or modern rights as this? The trade route, or the expiration route, or any name we choose to name, assumes that they are temporary, exclusive treaties, to the very purpose of creating the necessary foreview and stability so that investment remains strong and good, and that is an incentive to do always do better, as has clearly been one of the great goods of the present saying system. So that would mean every year offering, selling, selling, and the counter or purchase price at the market, depending on what the bidders may offer. Seafood companies in the country, are ready to pay for these sources, and then goes into a government fund. We have also emphasized that the produce of this flows to the coastal areas, to the land where the sources are the source so that the country will benefit from the fishing fee as such or to the resource price.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u181	A respectable president. I don't think it's quite as simple as a dog. The senator refers to, that all classes have some ideas in this regard. I don't think most groups talked about selling on a completely unprovable free market. That's why I'm asking. Senator on this. We have a provision for foreign property, don't we? It affects prices. Some have mentioned geographic fences. Of course, it affects the use of prices. Some have mentioned that there will be a roof over how much money you can afford. Of course, it also affects the use of prices. I'm asking why. A senator's concern is this because he is always talking about public markets. More people have talked about this, but now I'm just asking. A senator's visual image. If he talks about public markets, is he talking about total free sales without any fences? That's how I get the public market, huh? Senator. Or he is talking about the state, with its members, putting the fences and thus setting the guards as strong as possible. A senator is complaining that we are here? First thing. A senator is so against it, is this to be completely fenced, and can anyone be bought by the laws that are available on the market? This is a fundamental question, a respectable president, and I would very much like to get an answer to her, for this is a key when it comes to how we think about the fishing fees. Finally, a respectable president, I ask, "Do I understand that when it happens? " A senator will talk about 4,5,5,5% worth the price of the hunting fee and the other 95% will be caught free? [[The president calls.]] Has a what? So a senator would have some plan on losing income for a government fund that year and the next year, and how should he be met?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u182	President. Thank you. A senator resists. So that I can see clearly regarding the marketing worthy of this which is absolutely true -- what. A senator has a good sense of market - the more fences built, of course, affect market prices. If some potential clients are excluded, they may have an effect on the price of the market. We are not talking about opening up a foreign investment in a fishing road. There are fences, perhaps primarily with regard to maximum resources, which I think are reasonable fences to prevent overcomplication in this article. In fact, they have not been highly inhibited, at least not so far, but it may be that individual companies start knocking at their upper limit of fences now. Of course, all of this has an impact on market prices, but there are no politicians who control that value, that is, the market within the boundaries or fences that are entrusted to him for the long term. It's just the exact same way that labor agencies have changed their hands ever since the greeting system was introduced by a free forwarder. The market prices have been fully capable of laying them at any time that varies from situation to situation and looking into the article with the fences that have been there. There is no problem in the arrangement we're talking about. You're right. A senator says, certainly there is a big difference between the priorities of classes, but a number of classes have spoken out of temporary novels, and then how to assign those who may be very different and what type of currency to build. I'm not worried about that problem. I have full faith that the market could as much use as it's worth the upcoming resources within the fences we've built. [[The president calls.]] About a question why. A senator's loss of income in terms of the value of earnings that are changing his hands today will not be a government fund for any loss of income compared to the current fishing fee. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that would be very likely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u183	The President begs members of the council to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u184	A respectable president. Looks like who's hunting fees, that's for sure. Some want to pay a high price on the article, others lower and constantly come up with disagreements as to what is the most reasonable way to collect the fee. Our course in restoration is clear in this regard. First, we feel right to collect a fee for the use of the resource, and second, we feel right to consider that the amount each time it pays actually reflects the results of an enterprise in the article. We believe that the best way to vouch for such reflection is to make temporary agreements with a business in the fishing field, place a small part of the quatane's auction every year, and that the state will take its fee through that auction to ensure real market value each time. The profit, in turn, returns in part to the inhabited places where the value was created. We simply do not feel that the generalists and ministers should be able to make a political decision as to how much the price should be and not make such a decision according to the suit of those who are in charge at any given moment. Other Crones have dealt with other concerns that we feel are dangerous about the bill. However, I intend to use my time to direct the attention of the council to the danger that I believe may be facing the problem of partnership, but it is my opinion that the bill may seriously weigh that wording is not adjusted. In 1st. The bill says, with President's permission: " In order to meet the State's costs of research, control, control and management of fishing and fishing work, and to ensure that the nation as a whole and visible share is derived from fishing on the crops of the sea. In this context, consider 1 mg. 1st par. the law on the control of fish that has been referred to quite often today, which says, by permission of presidents: "National stocks in Iceland are common to Iceland. The aim of these laws is to promote the protection and practical use of them, thus ensuring stable work and inhabited in the country. The distribution of fishing warrants under these laws does not form a possession or an unregistered custody of the individual bodies over the fishing grounds. It is likely that Greek readers noticed that in paragraph 1. the current bill needs some passwords found in the other law, passwords such as, "partner of the national country's [U.S.A.] and 'unified figures do not constitute the rights of property,' or "reflectable custody'. Hv. Senators. A closer look reveals that the difference in wording can have a powerful effect. I can't interpret this any more than it is an attempt to undermine the national rights of property, that the elected agents are even at the conclusion that there is no national property at first. For a long time, several of our leading experts in the law have debated the true nature of resources. To put you to sleep. Congress officials do not simply turn the issue to whether the rights are really reversible or not, despite the clear wording of Article 1. the law on the control of fishing that the operation of fishing materials would not provide irrefutable custody. Similarly, as indicated by the sounds, it is clear that this is a national partnership that many experts have not, although everything is important. The importance of the wording of the law, however, is made clear when reading two Supreme Court Court decisions dealing with this issue. A so - called Water Island Court of the year 2000 says, with the permission of a president: "For this, I must also look at the 3rd sentence of par. The law does not create the disposition of hunting warrants or the irreformable custody of individuals over them, as stated earlier. So the records are just permanent in the sense that they will be neither removed nor changed except by law. Thus, under the cover of his authority, the Council can further determine the right to fish, bind it to conditions, or collect further fees for it. In a somewhat recent judgment from 2013, the Supreme Court extended the step further, stating in the court, that the Council could, the Council can, "declare to appoint fishing warrants to be called in during a suitable lead period and after the reassignment events. The lessons we should try to draw from my reading are, in short, simple terms, the wording of Article 1. The bill is important and will come about at some point in the future if the story is to teach us something. Now, perhaps they could accuse me of some sort of leopard or offer excuses as to why there is no need for more specific expressions in that specified article in the bill, such as the Supreme Court. A minister made at the beginning of the day. But I hereby dismiss such rationality. The legislation on the matter of fishing in Iceland's centres and dealing directly and indirectly with the nation's resources. Let us be rather careful now and stick our true faith in law, but let us later get it in the court. However, if politicians do not feel the need to make clear in the paragraph that the nation's partnership is reversible, this should not be too much headache for them to add, even if only with courtesy and respect for government opposition. This is a very important case and really a prince thing. Those of us who have faith in the fact that the fishing resource is in the possession of our national property are to protect that faith by ensuring the clarity of the law, for the understanding of the law is subject to action. Last night, Prime Minister told us that she thought it was a constitution of resources to be clear. Then there should also be no special issue to prevent any legal uncertainty by adding the bill of national partnerships to the national community, thus ensuring that the wishes of the governments, at least Two of them, will reflect on the bill. Therefore, I would like to direct the members of the Parliament to the Commission's report on the future payment of the use of the fish resource published last year and most likely by the Ministry's Web. The report can be seen in one of the accompanying documents a bill worked around 2014 by the then marine economist and agricultural ministers, which is, in fact, the highest. A secretary of transportation, however, was never assigned to the council and not published until this report. What I especially want to point out to the members of the Parliament is the discussion that appears in the non-important bill on legal matters that might arise. It is also of interest to note that the bill itself goes on to include temporary contracts. But I'm not going to go through it in detail right now. V.E.G. During an interview yesterday, the prime minister said that she was hoping for a change in constitution during this elected period to agree to a constitution of resources. I want it to be directed to the highest. Prime Minister, though I wholeheartedly agree with her, that our hopes and desires for good cooperation tomorrow are not enough to justify today's indiscriminate work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u185	A respectable president. Just as I was rejoicing inside that I was getting a clear picture of the direction I was moving toward this matter, when I had a word at my right time. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðrk's Friðriksson earlier today confused my last discussion. I think I'm saying a little bit under the weather, at least. In fact, when I say what. paritaprevir The ensuing María Egilsdóttir told her just before to take Uphon was putting a small part of the quatane's auction on each occasion and that the price to which it was formed should then be in charge of the government's granting of what was to remain. I'd like to ask again, as I asked why. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson earlier: To offer a small portion of the quatans, using the price of it for the price of what the state should demand of the builders or to offer up the whole quatane, i.e. on all the resources, all the resources, to go to auctions, or just small things like whatnot. A senator said earlier to be a reference to the formation of prices? After listening to three reverends talk about this today, I'd like to get this straight. Is the whole dinner supposed to go to an auction? Are the current fishing system to be discarded and replaced by all sources for auctions or not? Should a small part of the quanan go to auctions and raise prices, or should the whole family go to an auction?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u186	A respectable president. Hv. A senator, in order to clarify my case, our ideologies do not go out on putting the whole quatane on the market at once or posting a year of quathan on the market for some kind of reference price. Our ideas are about calling in small amounts each time the shell over many years, calling in a specific percentage. For example, in this regard, there have been 5◯10% per year, and this part has been put on the market on a set auction. It has been referred to as the auction route for which we can cover a detailed period later, and the government is taking the profit that comes from that sale. This means that the developers lose a certain portion of the quatan every year, but they can still buy it back. It is the price of purchase that replaces the fishing fees as such. Instead of having a temporary contract, however, companies have been given 15◯25 years to ensure a fixed stop zone for their companies. I hope this answers a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u187	A respectable president. This, then, is what they called "the way out " is the way we want to go. Then it's fine that we're clear. Hv. In his earlier speech, a senator used terms that may not be missing. I remember, though, one legal phrase that I'm going to go under. A senator because I know that she certainly knows more about him than I do. It has been claimed by lawyers that if they wanted to go this way, they would be initially fishing for what in the law is called an inquisitive ceremony and will be taken back only by repairs. Is that the way it went? A senator wants to go, and that's how he wants to go?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u188	A respectable president. Our tour does not count and agrees with your friend, the lawyer, who thought that improvement would be needed to install these rights. Earlier, from 2013 onward, I referred to the Supreme Court, which was also confirmed in 2000, i.e. ever before, that these sources can be recalled again if they are done in small steps and over some particular time. This is in order to ensure the safety of those who were given the salathan by this passive administrative ceremony at the time. The Supreme Court, however, did not speak about it and did not indicate the need for improvement. I'm just saying the Supreme Court in that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u189	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill for a fishing fee. I'm not in the habit of starting my talks to specify the issues we are discussing. So far, I've assumed that what. Senators realized this, but I think it's important to reiterate it here, because much of the discussion that's been done here today, fine things she's been doing, not about fishing fees, but about the fishing system. Of course, it is related to the chin, but it is not the same thing. The reason for this song and bill here is that by the end of the year, the increase in hunting costs in spring and there won't be anything to be done will be paid next year, so we have to do something. The question, then, is, What do we want to do? How long? How do we want to do all of this? We have, some of us, discussed how an agreement on this arrangement will be achieved best. I have the hope that this is a basis for such reconciliation, but of course it is nothing less to say, neither a senator nor a political party. I take it from my mind to see that the nation's ownership of the resources is clear, that it is clear that the nation has the resources of the sea together. That's why I'm looking at this bill for a layer of hunting fees as a bill to fix the system we want to come up to determine how it'll be paid to use that resource. What is the basic idea of that subject? It's about balance, that's what I know. It is first of all that the nation will get a righteous share in the valuables created through the use of its resources. On the contrary, it's about how we can run a water main which is self-sustained in the sense of how the resources and fish stocks are treated, but it's also a self-sustained and self-sustaining thing when it comes to society. We sometimes forget there are three support for sustainability, economic, environmental and social. For me, the debate over fishing costs is about finding the balance between the two, how we will secure this goal when it comes to the fishing grounds, while at the same time, that the nation will get a righteous share in the products created. It's the project as I see it, to feel how this balance will be achieved best. Is this the right way? I hope that this is a reasonable way to do so. I'm sure there are many other ways, but I don't doubt it, but I believe this suggestion is reasonable to achieve this goal. I'm particularly happy that e.g. it puts special emphasis on investments and speaks of motivation. There are investment incentives in the tools and equipment used to access this resource. It rhymes well with the left green policy that it should contribute to the continued environmental and environmental growth of the sea. I want this economic impulse to be used in that direction and that the restoration of equipment will also be in that direction. Is it 33% who has said we're going to collect the price of the remainder of the algorithm's use, the correct number? I don't know anything about that. This is the age of Jesús Kristur. That may tell us something. Some feel that this is a sacred number. Perhaps we can take advantage of it and make sure that we may have met at the right number. How to Find It Here is the way to look back ten years in time. Not just because it's what it's all about, for example. Because in these ten years many methods have been used to calculate fishing fees. During those years, four governments have carried very many groups. This is pretty much the average of the amount of money that has come in at this time, and in fact, it's slightly higher than that. If this method had been applied in the next decade, hunting costs would have been 0.5 billion. More than they were. I think it's a good try to make up for it. There are many who have spoken of an auction, so to determine the price of hunting. I'm not sure I'm willing to agree that it's a hunting fee that's already been set, but it may be the prophetic hairs that don't really matter today. I'm not sure that this is necessarily the right way, though I may find myself watching what happens. I used to have a word about these matters earlier, and I often don't like to ignore it when we talk about the market deciding that we've agreed that fishing grounds and fishing routes are not just another product on the market. We have agreed that there must be a special law on the possession of a nation, we have already set fences that I have never heard to fall away, as in a foreign possession. We have this very extensive code of laws and complex systems, which, for example, go on. it is designed to divide up some of the resources that especially need some of the resources. For me, we've long agreed this isn't just another product on the market. It's not a code in a can. That's why I don't understand those people who talk about this as if they could just wave them out like that. Seaways are also a part of geographic policy, as shown here, that 5.3% of resources are being developed in rural areas. What's the basic idea of the system? I've been over it, so here's a formula, where we decide what's withdrawn, and then we take 33% into the cost of the rest. The bill also includes two key elements. It's moving the calculations into time. That's what I thought was political. I think I may claim that almost everyone accepts that the system as it is today is a sad and numerous of the highest. High - quality ministers have come to see if they can find a way to get it closer in time. We've been assigned to do that. Here is where it will be done. It is like all very clever paths to the foundation of extremely simple and will use the system we have built up as a community to collect taxes, we take in data to the government manager. It also includes data from the Fish Room, which is followed as close to a real time as possible to which is real. Then the State will accept 33% of the merits that I've previously attributed, a price to access the country's common resource. The third big thing is such a delivery. The same area is burned. I've only known that the majority of us, if not all of us, who have told us about these matters over the past few years, are connected and that when it goes well, the cost will be more than when it gets worse. And when these two assumptions on being closer in time and deportation are combined and we watch that we're going to get them on, of course, some changes in the amount on which we collect when the system is established, but after this has been established and with the algorithm, it doesn't have to interfere with any more. All right, let's get this done. There are some of them. Councilmen spoke as if it were a suggestion. All councilmen and politicians over their heads should have their fingers in fortification from now on. I think this is an incredibly irresponsible presentation, a respectable president, because this is the perfect contrast between what is suggested here in the bill. After this rule has been established, after oversight, calculation, and monitoring have been made to the head of the tax and to the institutions I appointed before, the politicians have nothing to interfere with this. I think that's an advantage. This may not be the least of the reasons why I have the hope I had earlier in my speech that this could actually become a basis for reconciliation for a fishing fee, how to collect it, and where to be. Then we can have all kinds of ideas about the whole fishing system. Someone might have the idea that this should change everything. It doesn't happen tomorrow, and not before the New Year's Eve, I think that everyone in this room will understand. But while it's the way it is, and as we agree, we're going to pay for our hunting fees, they're going to have to pay for it. That's what I think is a wise law when it comes to the fishing fee. There are a number of factors mentioned in the discussion. The job board will, of course, take sides, but on the foundation it is a reasonable proposal to settle these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u190	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator has been very diligent today in speaking up to members of the council and in asking questions and inquiring whether members of the Parliament are on the right track. I'd like to ask you what. A senator like you. It's some kind of average, the 33% that they found out. It's really just the same thing that's been collected over the last ten years according to the bill. All these years, reminds me, I'm not going to say it, but I can remember as much as the left green has spoken in this sermon all these years that it was too low a price. That's what I'm talking about. A senator of the same mind, that 33% are undernumber and need to be raised? Is it possible for the senator to have the percentage different for some fishing companies? Is it possible for the senator to change the area of land or communities, that 33% does not mean for everyone? Hv. In October 2017, there was a senator and a member of the council who were present at a meeting. I think that was where we were asked, representatives of the classes, into the fishing policy of the classes. That's where we missed it. A senator who had left green wanted to recall all the resources and reassign them. This is not about the fishing system itself, but why. At a meeting, a senator said that all of this should be typed and assigned according to a specific arrangement; one third should go to a tenet, one third to cohesion, and one third to complete according to a modest price. What moderate price was left green in mind at this time? Is that a modest price? I think it's a good idea to charge a seaside from one industry that uses resources about 6,000 million. K. or whatever it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u191	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. He asks, first of all, if this is, well, here I've written too high. Probably this should be: not high enough. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President. I'm not sure that all those years, senators in the left had spoken of this as being too low. Part of what's being taken into this room has run away from reefs at the highest level. Seafood minister left green at the time. There was considerable attention and protests in many communities and in many insistences. In 2012, if I remember correctly, those in the government's stand, if it seemed too high a fee, would be paid in the year Jehovah's Witnesses. There were great protests, if not even outside. What's not high enough or what's too high? I think it's like watching some kind of average of what it's been for the past ten years making sense in some way. If I had this advice alone, I'd probably have nothing to do with it because I don't have the brains to figure it out. That is why I made it clear in my speech that this might be some sort of reconciliation. I feel like this algorithm that I haven't seen before, but now it's here, not unwise. Now I see my time is up. I'm sorry, I have to come in on the other one in the next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u192	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I think this is just going to be a turning point in the process of fishing, when one of the old categories, one of the political parties that have been at the Council, and talked the most about the development, especially the big-time fishing fees indeed, pays too little for the use of the resource, is in their policy that it can be settled, that there is the reconciliation, that 33% of the calculated stock is what men can do and should only be peace and tranquillity. I couldn't understand why. It's different to a senator. I think it's time to celebrate, at least We who are concerned that the project is paying even too much for fishing. But I would like to ask. A senator to one recorded in his case on February 2, 2017. Then there was. In answer to another senator, a senator simply said that he wondered if a special view of large, well - defined designs was carried out. This was shown by the senator's words at that time. If the senator has become at peace with 33%, that is the only person to accept, does he no longer feel that it is possible to put a special strain on the large structure and well - defined deforestation? There's some thought - provoking point about how well - off making is. Then I'd like to, if anything. A senator has time to answer what was not before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u193	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator resists. I'm going to allow myself to link this question, which was still about special categories. Hv. A senator asked if it would be different from those of any particular type. I'm gonna cross over to a question. A senator for the big projects. I feel that there is a particular look at this work to be taken into account in particular about smaller companies where the company can be so that banks are more relevant than elsewhere. I think it's one of those things. Business committees are expected to take the lead in their work. There's been talk of small and medium-sized structures. In some respects, that is not a very good concept, as it was when it happened. A senator quoted me as a well - intentioned contractor. There's not necessarily a match between them all. To me, it's the system we have in the fishing road, especially the local language. That's why I think it's a very good option for us to sit over it and look at it. I don't expect anything except to be discussed at the moment. A professional health committee. In terms of the pressures of mass waste, the dog is absolutely right. A senator here is not a direct suggestion. However, what is called an expansive burden to deal with the companies in the upkeep, such as coursing. A senator knows, especially on the biggest project, and only on it is stress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u194	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator fine speech, but he has to respect me that I'm a little confused when it comes to the left - left - green position of hunting fees, for as mentioned earlier, there was a pack of whales. A senator who was very aggressive in discussing the fact that hunting costs were far too low. Of course, it has to be noted that when the fishing fees were first introduced with a much higher source of stress, it was now in the seafaring minister's left - green season. I'm already asking why. A senator speaks of an agreement about this arrangement: Is the reconciliation between the left green submerged in the administrative business, i.e. that while left green is in the management business of the forwarding party and the Independence Party are happy about this, the category will begin its previous course when it is free of all forms of control? It involves both the currency itself, i.e. The amount of money left green has repeatedly been criticized as being too low, and the left green concept of radical changes in the fishing system that now seem to have been completely put aside. Is this merely due to compromise with the groups left green now having in the management business or left green completely gone from that direction?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u195	A respectable president. As for the last question, I can point out why. A senator says that the left green approved new policy in the fishing trade that I thought individual fans of the left green had been notified by e - mail at their last national meeting. In many respects, this proposal rhymes with the direction it was adopted. In terms of condition of the dog. A senator in his question I will not participate in such political gladiatorry. A senator to learn the direction of the left green and, as I say, that this rhymes in many ways at an end there is in itself a lot of things inside that were in the bills that became the law of hunting when the left government was in 2009 in 20042013. Hv. A senator will tell us that we change our mind. Someone thinks it's a sign of maturity. I was reading an interview with what? A reporter from the News magazine who served as vice president of the Industrial Association asked him out on an auction route. He said, with President's permission: ▪ When an auction market is set up where the buyer is put in a position of getting everything or nothing, which is how they received [the agreement] that was cold enough to offer, you put the risk of becoming unrealistic. If you don't, you'll raise the price. It sounds like a reason. A senator speaks a little different now than he did then so he knows well that some senators at least about standing in this chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u196	President. Thank you. I'm quoted by a senator. Yes, changing one's mind can be the most excellent sign of maturity. I have considered the pros and cons of the so - called auction source so much better in later times and with the changes made in those proposals, I am becoming more and more fond of that way and I didn't consider it to be the same fault I once thought. I asked why. When it comes to the sum of the fishing fee, a candidate for further explanations of the left - to - left ringing practices, this pointed criticism that there is too little money here, but here is the historical reconciliation, which is to be made on average by similar figures, and now I would like to direct two questions to the right. Senator. First, the bill's report reviews how this new methodical method rhymes with the actual burden of hunting costs in recent years. There was a significant discount due to preconceived fishing fees in earlier years. Now I wonder: Is this being taken into account in this account? Ella is likely to be a significantly lower catch fee on average, but there was a basis for this special debt discount on this ten - year average referred to. The reason I'm desperate for what I'm talking about. A senator on the direction left green in this case is exactly that this fishing fee has been covered in almost every legislature of the past decade or so and is precisely referred to and so on in this bill. I'd be fine if you were. A senator could explain his convictions to me, especially in the light of today's discussion, that there will be some fundamental change in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u197	A respectable president. Why I have that conviction, asked why. A senator to me at the end of his case. Because of what I've mentioned here, they look to the last ten years. It is attempted to take in all the procedures and methods established by governments over the past ten years, including the national governments as a course. The senator was the minister of the council. When it comes to the concentration of hunting fees, I came to this earlier date when this bill was applied in 2017. A member of the government would have collected $3.3 billion worth of hunting fees, but they did. [[Up front.]] I don't know exactly what to do with it. A senator refers to a ringy style and thinks it's some kind of political debate, I say, because I enjoy making new words. [[Up front.]] Why are we doing this? Why are we trying to reach this direction? Well, the current chairman of the Cradle, huh? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, was if I recall correctly the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers last year. Is it not true that she received a landmark report on the employment status of an enterprise on the fishing road? That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that in 2016 the income in the fishing road is further reduced by 25 billion, i.e. 9%, EBITDA decreased, etc. I've never heard what. The Council of Parliament or other Parliamentaries explain how they were going to respond to this in a different way than that of lowering the fishing costs. We're here offering a suggestion that would have paid 3.5 billion, even more than a year's more fishing fees, but they were collected in the government's season. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u198	A respectable president. We've been talking about this bill for a long day about fishing fees. We've been most concerned with what the bill is not about, i.e. This has most recently been discussed with the fishing system itself, the auction route, other possible ways to collect a price, while at least on the bill. But most people who have expressed themselves about the bill have not made a lot of remarks to it, but I think that the bill itself is in all respects - I have heard from sailors, builders, and almost everyone with the facts - to a great deal of improvement from what has been being done. There are many reasons. It gives a more realistic view of the survival of the structure. It brings up time and actually answers to all the demands far better than the present arrangement does. In other words, I think it's the opinion of all who have expressed themselves on the subject, both in and out of the community, that this bill is a great improvement from what has been being done. However, much has been discussed about the fishing system itself. Should we do this the way we have today? Yet, they may not have pondered the basic question about this fishing system and collected a price for using the resource. A basic question may be: In Iceland, the sea route is one field of industry to pay for the use of the country's common resource? That is hardly fair. Other jobs are not doing this. There is a fine example of the use of natural beauty in Iceland. I have been happy to take this example because it was James Bond who made Icelanders understand the value of the glacier. Men would often pass through there before they could see how gorgeously beautiful it was. Probably using natural beauty in a movie is one of the most limited resources you can imagine, which means that the use of a glacier in the James Bond film will lead to the loss of a glacier in another so-called A film before the James Bond film is forgotten. In other words, the combination of big movies means that you can't use glaciers again unless you have B and C pictures. That's what I think of a famous movie director. If anyone has received the use of a limited resource - and it wasn't just that they paid nothing for their use, they were paid to use the resource. The Icelandic government paid him money in the form of a reimbursement of merit tax and all kinds of fees for using a glacier in a movie that means that it will not be used again for the same purpose. Is that enough? Are you paying enough for fishing? Are the waste charges of the resource high enough? I mean, my brother in the Western Islands thinks it's loud enough. This year's annual fishing costs are over 1 billion and have doubled since the previous year. This equals about 400,000 k. to each man's child in the Western Islands. Many in the island feel that this money is, for example, money. Better there than the government. Since we're talking about the fishing system, I think there's more to this than the fishing bill. Then I think this fishing system will meet 100% of the three main requirements for this system. First, sustainable use of the resource. This fishing system has ensured that, as we know, the use of the resource is sustainable. This was shown in the Senate debates earlier today in ways such as the U.S. The cod population has increased since this system was installed. A species can be noticed. The system ensures as much as we know the sustainable use of this resource. Then the first condition is met. The second requirement is to maximise the yield of the nation as a whole of the use of this resource. I think it's safe to say that this system has provided us with the most profitable fishing road we know, at least. In our part of the world. The last time I looked at it, the sea route guaranteed the state, the government, higher total tax revenues than e.g. However, the traveling work that has gone well beyond the fishing road. In other words, I suppose there is no industry in Iceland that has a higher tax track, as it is called in the language used to measure this, than the seaside road. On top of all the normal fees paid by every other industry, the fishing fee comes on what the sea route alone pays. It has been referred to as setting up an auction system for distribution or charge for the resource use. With independents, it's like... now a great deal of nostrils that we are advocates of freedom in business, that we are reluctant when it comes to this auction system in the seaside. I'll just admit here that I'm no one else in the prince's hand as a basic method of measuring the value of things in general, but that they have a free market with an auction that would form a price on this resource. It would be a beauty to simply take the clean policy, to let the market rule it perfectly, but those speaking here before the auction will immediately begin talking about all sorts of fences, all sorts of restrictions and conditions on the owner's part that offer this to please political views on this matter, social views that are completely justified. You need to remember that each fence reduces its beauty in the way of offering it out. Every fence that's set up reduces freedom. Each fence that is installed is confined to the free market, and we lower what the owner receives when he bids out. Hence, these spokesmen must keep up with all kinds of questions that they cannot avoid answering. Where do you put these fences? Are they geographic? In zones? Can't there be more than a certain part of the total money in this area, in this town society, a community? Should it be done by species? Should it be done according to the size of an enterprise? Someone mentioned that there should be the same size limit on this, that no one should offer more than x per cent of the quatane, perhaps in each kind. Each of these conditions reduces its beauty. That's when the market's down. The end point of such a system is that there will be so many fences to serve all kinds of political views, traditional and contemporaneous reasons, that there will be no more freedom. Only then will this turn into a clean political intervention in which so many conditions have been drawn that nothing remains. I said in answer to earlier today, I'm sure it's true, if you think so quickly that they're just going to maximise the result of this once, that it's best to offer all of this out. I'm absolutely certain that that year, the first year of tender discharge, would ensure a substantial increase in income than the catch price will do according to the approach here. The beauty of this system would begin to fall immediately after the first shipment. If we're going to keep on the beauty of the invitation, we're out of place, otherwise they're putting on much more strict political conditions, and first they're out in a clean political distribution of fishing warrants. There is little left for today's world of free markets. I think the conclusion of this discussion today is that the fishing bill itself, which is here for our payment, is good. None of today's speakers have made material remarks to what is causing them to ruin its main contents. I'm not much of an impressionable person, but I was surprised when I first saw this bill how logical it is and clean in its approach to this complex subject. It may well be that on the basis of some lure that will appear on the bill when it listens to the stakeholders involved that have been involved, but the main thing is that I haven't marked it on the speakers who have stuck to the contents of the bill - we can take up a discussion about the fish - control system itself - that the argument that has been presented today against the bill itself is that it is of nature that they no longer address any basic principle behind the bill as it happens. I've heard many stakeholders and reiterate it, sailors, and all kinds of economists as it is called on the dullly institutionalist, and all as one, including those who have spoken here today, agree that the arrangement of these fishing costs is far better established according to the bill here than the current law. Some speakers have noted today that this involves a reduction in the price of hunting. It's just not. I guess this is what it is, and next year it's less fishing fee than the old system would've done. It was calculated within a decade and the new method was applied to it within a period of less than ten years, if I remember correctly, and it was found that the fishing costs in those less than a decade would be the same, even more so, if I remember correctly than the old system and what it was. No, the advantage of this is that it gives a better picture of real survival and is a climate for a much better picture of the real life that the industry enjoys than the present system. It is a pleasure to have participated in this discussion today, which has more to do with the fishing system than with the bill being discussed here. I want to finish my case here by claiming that all the responses to the kind of bill recommend that it be done as unchanged as if I saw it. There may be some baits at this point that will be handled by the Committee, but this is a great improvement. A discussion about the fishing system itself should be followed. If there's a problem, and if there's any comparison between the systems we've been discussing today and comparing together, we should, least, in Iceland, be taking the Offeys, our cousins, as a model of how we steer the use of this resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u199	Mr. President. I'm going to thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. In my first answer, I would like to draw only closer to what was presented at the outset of each speech. A senator, as well as later, that there were many who had been more discussing the fishing system than the material content of the hunting bill discussed here. I'm so sensitive that I detected a certain criticism of it. I wondered, and this is rather closely related: If the senators thought to come up here and criticize what is proposed in the actual currency bill - i.e. how the cost is calculated, that this is not a temporary agreement, which has a major impact, how to deal with a difference in bottom-fish resources and up-front resources by choosing this 10% damage, how to react, in a Δad hac und, the challenge of distinguishing between fishing and processing - and approaching it with ideas and new suggestions is the result of an attack on the fishing control system? So how do we talk about this? How would it have been? A senator approaches the subject if he really wanted to criticize or make changes? It's so closely connected, and it's kind of cheap - and I'm not blaming him. A senator rather than anyone else - rejecting the criticism of this because people have always gone to the other. If that's the case, let's just talk about it, if there's no way to separate it. I'd be interested to know what it's like. A senator would have come close.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u200	A respectable president. This was not a criticism of me at all; it was not thinking at all. On the contrary, I was saying that the channel that has been discussed today showed me that the bill itself, the fishing part of the bill itself, was not a very thoughtful person. I can see why. A senator said here about technical exports, fishing and processing transfers, how the map is handled differently from the bottom fish. I was trying to put it together - I've done no better than that - that today's criticism was more focused on the fishing system itself. I'm not sensitive to talking about it and I like discussing it more than the hunting bill itself. I was simply pointing out that this might be an indication that the bill under consideration is not the stumbling block between the classes, or the politicians who have spoken today at the council, which has the length of the discussion and the number of speakers. In other words, there was a confirmation that in all the main matters, this is a good bill. Then let's talk about the fishing system just to the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u201	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator must agree, then, that it is fundamentally a good bill. But we may agree that some of the criticism flows from that point of view when trying to find out a reasonable, transparent, predictable foundation. I tried to approach it by dividing my discussion in half, one about fishing policy, i.e. the remuneration, the auction route, then how to improve the fishing bill by using these criteria. Well, that's another story. I was running out here in the hall and I didn't hear everything that was wrong. A senator said. He mentioned the travel service. I interpret that he has discussed that the use of other employment on natural resources does not conform to the rules of the marine route. That's where I agree. I'd like to throw the ball over at night. A senator who is a member of a class and a administrative body, which has exactly that advice in his hand, asking whether he would agree with me that the next step in our great nation's resources talk would be to make it difficult to finish these matters in the tourism business, so I'll shoot it into a long and interesting discussion of seafood. Then I'm going, because I've got a hell of a few seconds left to celebrate. A senator on the market route and its resulting freedom. I'd like to help him. It is clear that this is not particularly simple. But now think of a world of Congress united in finding such a way. I'm sure we'd find a good way to preserve the beauty of freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u202	A respectable president. I rolled it up here, and this is both a political and even a philosophical solution, why the sea route should one trader in Iceland pay for the use of the resource when it is truly walked on in another way; and I mentioned this smoldering example of James Bond's film and glacier. Should not all who use natural resources in Iceland pay that price? I'm more than ready for that discussion. I was describing my view that, basically, I feel that the clean - spoken freedoms of the auction appeals to me. I was just saying it and pointing to the fact that when this method of doing this was questioned here today people came up here, including why. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, and began talking about putting fences and fences there, hanging all of this and enforcing this freedom in so many ways that it would meet all kinds of political views. It could be based political views, perhaps contemporaneous, and all sorts of viewpoints. Then I'll just have to say, "You're blocking the beauty of every fence you're setting up. " In the end, you have a system that is just as likely to end up in the political distribution system, mental determinations, and any other system that is used to divide these quality. In other words, the auction route does not guarantee freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u203	A respectable president. Hv. A senator doesn't feel enough about this particular bill, so I want to meet him here. But I'd like to start by saying that I don't find it particularly unusual for people to discuss what kind of cake they want over their heads when they put a recipe to the bottom of it. That the bill itself: System risk has an impact on the value of stock departments, thus reducing the increased risk of the share, and vice versa. It is clear that making the fishing cost a political decision involves more risks than allowing the fishing fee to reflect the actual supply of the enterprises. It seems to everyone in this room what these fishing companies can pay for each time. Even governments do not seem to agree on their ability to do so. In short, by making the decision to make a political decision, the risk for fishing companies is being increased by reducing the value of the resources of that increased risk. And the Ministry. A seaman minister suddenly becomes a far more important minister than it already is. What's the matter? A senator on the possibility of losing the value of labor departments? And where is freedom, and where is the beauty in it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u204	A respectable president. The ability of the fishing companies to pay for fishing costs, or some kind of price for the use of the resource, is not constant. What is the right price cannot be determined. On the contrary, the price is now being linked to the actual survival of the enterprises beyond what has been so far. I described earlier that the local fishing fees in the Western Islands are over a billion this year. This is doubled in hunting expenses from the previous year. The rate of fishing has never been higher than in the year when the rise in the fishing grounds is the worst. If we took the last decade, they were never lower, but in the year of the fishing grounds, they were the best. That was even. The problem with the fishing system that we now disappear. In other words, hunting costs are not fixed that we can say: The ability of the fishing road to pay the fishing fee is this year, but they will be very different next year. What I'm trying to say is that I'm questioning the auction route, as it has been presented here by the Reconnaissance Councilers, with all the fences, that contains free prices for the use of the resource and any other system that can be used for it. The beauty I just described, then, is in the Teoria to give it all free, to offer up all the fences without fences.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u205	A respectable president. I'm sorry, I can't agree with that. A senator that the beauty and freedom are part of our presentation. There would be far too little use for this wonderful resource that we have, to give it just once. [[Up front.]] This is national property and is supposed to be national property forever. However, this resource needs to be used. We want it to remain new. That is why we, while living in Resurrected, want to make new contracts for a certain amount of time that humans will be able to renew when the dinner is scheduled for each occasion. However, this is a price, as the system is now political. If a minister is allowed to select a number in the equation, he is historically directing the conclusion. It's authorized in this bill. In Comb 4. The bill says, with President's permission: "The Governor of the Treaty makes a suggestion for the sum of the cost of any useful product for the coming fishing year for the minister who uses seafood... It says right here that the head of state is suggesting the sum, but the decision is expected to be a minister at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u206	A respectable president. What I was trying to say here today is that no matter what system is used, whether it's the fishing system we use today or the fence auction we've been up for today, it's possible to do with all the systems that eventually they will be only political decision and even one person's hand. This system, the new fishing system, does not expect it, just depends on what is written into the law at any given time. This is not the holy number, this 33%. We've been trying to bring them here today who've talked about the bill - is it a stumbling block whether it's 33%, 35% or 40%? The United States spokesman for today's discussion said it's okay if the state takes more than half, then goes up to 52%, 53%, or 54%. It's not like this is happening. No one's got me wrong, because I know how it would end, that these fishing warrants go to a free fence auction. Then anything they like to avoid would happen that has been spoken against today's fishing system. It'd be a compression, it'd be a geographic compression, it'd be a corporate compression, and eventually, without fence-free compression, that's how it would go. I'm still asking where these fences should be. Hv. In order to continue the discussion throughout the fishing system, a member of the Parliament and those who speak for this way must be informed to ensure that it can continue in the endless process of the fishing system, has to be informed what fences should be installed, geographical, business. And where do they end up?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u207	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize hunting fees. The aim of a fishing fee is made very clear in paragraph 1. The bill, which says, by permission of the President: " In order to meet the State's costs of research, control, control and management of fishing and fishing work, and to ensure that the nation as a whole and visible share is derived from fishing on the crops of the sea. V.E.G. A seafaring minister was very careful about the goals and connection with the bill we address, and perhaps primarily the fact that if it were not for a flourishing fishing road, where the change would occur at the turn of the century when an arrival in the article was due, there would simply not be the same standard of living as we can measure it. Of course, we are not talking about the fishing system, as it has been observed. The members of the congregation of Páll Magnússon and Katrín Friðriksson, are concerned with saving the resource. Of course, it is understandable and even inevitable that we will discuss it together. The bill is coming, if it's accepted, instead of current fishing fees, No. 74/2012, with an end of December 31st, next. On the other hand, there is a law on the control of fish fish that first took place in 1990, as stated in Article 1. The motion that the resource belongs to the nation, states the President's permission: "National stocks in Iceland are common to Iceland. The aim of these laws is to promote the protection and practical use of them, thus ensuring stable work and inhabited in the country. The distribution of fishing warrants under these laws does not form a possession or an unregistered custody of the individual bodies over the fishing grounds. Then I'd like to highlight the importance of keeping in mind the emphasis that is in the law on fishing, securing and trusting jobs and living in the country. Just like what we're talking about at 20. the law of those given resources under that law or country, that if a government is to become a fisher in a way other than the distribution of a market, fishing costs should be paid as outlined in the Summit's Summits. This is what we're talking about, a respectable president, and has been very much discussed in the interview, that the price needs to be extended and based on dates near real time. In the bill we're discussing, the bill for a hunting fee, they're certainly here. It's not a surprise to know that. A marine minister gives this bill in the form it is because it is in the Supreme Declaration of Policy. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter's government, the Treaty Treaty District, the Left Motive, and the Self - Opportunity, says, on permission of the president: "We review the legislation on fishing costs, the primary objective of ensuring the nation's righteous share of the resource's profit and their taking into account the survival of the resource. In addition, resource expenditure should be a payment for access to a limited resource and, on the other hand, its financing. They're clearly on the bill. It also says, a respectable president: "It is important to promote the scattered sea settlements and maintain variety of growth potentials to ensure their survival. I want to agree with someone else. Senators who have discussed the diversity in our fishing roads when it comes to companies and how this affects national parts and sizes and shapes of companies and may not be clear enough, on the other hand, you don't have all of them available at this point at this time, but I hope so. The employment committee offers all the relevant information as we consider this factor. "Worth must be determined by the government's means of resources, including. Coastal fishing, with the aim of ensuring more colonisation and innovation. This says in a government contract, so it is very important that we carefully consider the situation. All of this is important, that all over the country, the smaller and medium-sized water supply companies as large, provide a just wage and thus ensures their righteous share in the exploiting of a common resource at the same time as companies have the opportunity to grow and thrive and to build up the ability to reinvest. But we must not go so close to them that the economy and the road are overcharming. We must be balanced and make sure that the currency is at the right pace with the contribution of the enterprises, which is certainly suggested here, and that is a well - mannered, respectable president. Thus, and only in this way, the fishing route, which is recognized as being available internationally, can continue to compete in foreign markets and at the same time achieve the aims of sustainable innovation. Thus, the fishing route can continue to be the front of research and development, leading to innovation and product development, as I went on to say in the Supreme Government Convention. Governments, that we are seeking to ensure that the companies and industry can continue to make more money and contribute to greater prosperity in Iceland. This bill should ensure an even greater degree than that this target will be achieved. The data to guide the decision of the currency will now be in time, thus extending access to the management and the flow of the cost, which is therefore a much more reasonable approach and, in the long term, a better approach to all. The budget is now passed by a government tax manager who will handle the calculations instead of the decision of a fishing fee to be canceled. Thus, the management board around calculating and collecting will be adjusted by a more reasonable approach rather than a decision based on two, three-year-old data won by the Haust Office, called annual spending. I'm chairman of what happened. The legal committee rejoices that this is being changed because considering the almanac year will also be closer to official financial and financial legislation and to the point of a very positive change. It takes wisdom to approach, as here is the effort, to reimburse terms, and to be equal. The head of the European Commission called this year's remuneration in a business magazine, by permission of a president, "a high income tax on steroids." This was at the time when the council was being discussed to meet the project of exoneration in many parts of the country, where smaller companies and intermediate companies were in trouble and the debt would have been canceled and needed. In terms of this high income tax on steroids, where there are recalculations back to time as we have so far, the rate of payoffs would have increased to 585.960% by profit, including income tax 20 and the 40 hunting fee. Of course, many of the bigger businesses with most of the quatans can succeed, but they would be very close to smaller companies in the industry, and this would directly damage the industry and, hence, the community all, to quote the Commission's comments. As we all know, action could not be met, but we are discussing the bill for the price of hunting, which is a reasonable approach to what we can call a modest fishing fee that is equal to the time of life. It's very important. V.E.G. The prime minister even said so. On a seabed day, at a conference held by Deloitte, SA, and SFS, he hoped that the bill created a solidarity and that we as a nation were at the place where understanding prevailed that the resources of the sea were shared. My hopes are that political parties will achieve the highest support for certain changes in the constitution so that we can obtain a new resource directive, the fishing regime will be changed and reduced. A respectable president. I will continue to quote the words of the highest. Prime Minister, because I found it very interesting, with the permission of a president: 'We own nature and resources together. I can take my heart to that word. Minister. Something else interesting was at the height. One prime minister said that the fishing route is part of the nation's self - image and opportunities ahead of great opportunity. This rhymes very well with the words of the highest. A seaman minister in the history of the bill on the fishing fee we are dealing with. Thus we must approach with respect to this industry, the resource we are considering taking the cost, because it is one of the nation's basic working roads. This, at the same time, is very relevant to a resolution from the high convention of our future candidates, which says, by permission of the president: "The Seafood and agriculture are basic roads in the country and solid foundations in its habitats. The articles must always have reasonable employment conditions. Their competitiveness must be ensured and emphasised on supporting sustainable development, innovation and product development. The bill is certainly trying to ensure the goals and viewpoints that I have tore up on the continued development and sustainability of the oceans with fair, fair, fair payment by equality and a moderate. This is summed up in the bill, to set up a new source of fishing fees, which will be based on survival in the fishing of every stock. It'll be 33% of calculator stock. Rather than being removed from heaven, it is tried to approach it fairly and calculate a period of ten years. The rules on the prize market of hunting fees will remain unchanged. I suppose that's what it is. It will be handled very well by a job board, and the status of the fishing industry across the country and, as I passed over, will be determined for the calendar year. There has been little discussion about other routes related to the whole fishing system. It has been called an auction route and referred to the Faeroe Islands. Of course, it is always difficult to discuss such comparisons, as has actually been done well during the discussion, and it has been pointed out the fact that, in practice, a lot more is being taken at a rate of cash and a pound of fish taken on land compared with, for example. Faeroe Islands. At least I don't have all the information available. It has also been observed that the price varies according to fish species, businesses and parts of the country, and the levels of marine emissions in revenues vary. This picture and all of these need to be discussed. I don't want to tell you which day, I'm going to have to tell you, but I'm constantly in business, and I'm going to deserve a company in this article. Above all, we must ensure continued opportunities to increase production, achieve the profit and competitiveness of the article in hard international competition.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u208	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize hunting fees. At the first glance and the first lecture, it appears to have been greatly improved by the previous bill submitted by spring. The bill at present is based on the government's declaration of policy, which states that reviewing the legislation on fishing costs would have to be the primary objective of ensuring the nation a righteous share of the resource and taking into account the survival of the enterprises. I also think the calculus is very important, it is being simplified, and it is being made more understandable and more transparent. Current law uses data from the Habitat. I'm not saying that they're wrong, but they may not be as transparent as expected in this bill, since it is assumed that the source of the fishing fees will reflect the expected yields and will cease to be based on The Haideming and assume that data that will be based on data from the state taxpayer and the company's tax returns and data from the Marine Bureau. There are reviews and criticisms of a previous bill submitted by winter. It looks as good as possible to any develop, and it may not be possible to make it more individualized than this, because it really matters. As in most sectors, the fishing costs and fishing companies may vary from one to the other, and they may not all be equal in the current cycle. Abnormally, fishing costs can reduce the activities of companies and competitiveness of the article on a global market. Such trends can have a negative impact on the fishing service companies and rural areas, particularly that depend largely on the income of the fishing road. At that time, a high rate of fishing may contribute to a further reduction in the number of individual fishing drivers in the fishing industry, with a rapid decline in the number of regional seas in recent years, of less than 60% in 12 years. A fishing industry has not objected to paying the resource's price, but they did not sound protests when it went well. But the price must naturally be fair, taking into account the quality of time and other factors in business, such as interest - and - development discounts. It is not a country that pays off the resource that costs us an established company. A respectable president. I can't say what to say. paritaprevir Teits Björn Einarsson when he said that he was against taxation or tax because on the tax, we build large quantities of communities. Businesses and individuals want to pay taxes so that we can build wood that everyone can use. So I'm just going to go out for a conversation about the fishing fee itself or this bill, like so many people have done here, but though in a conversation that is very connected, the exchange of resources. The present system is misinformed in certain areas around the country. Civilians talk about national taxes, and those who want to consider that closer to the community feel bloody that none of this price goes back to the local law. National tax, why do you say that? The marine road is a diverse industry and is largely out of the capital area, or in proportion to other companies and local production. For example, there are about 80% of the total productions in the capital area. When we reach the fishing grounds, 16% are production in the region and only 2% in the capital area. We also look ahead to the growth of the fishing road, and it is also in the country. So it's important. It's important if we could arrange this so that a part of the fishing fee goes to the countryside. I found figures that if we took 20% of the fishing fees and let them run to the countryside, it would have been 5.5 billion in three years, 2013-2016. Farmers have no share in these costs paid by the sea route. But in 1st. This target bill is mentioned that the price of fishing is laid in order to meet the State's cost of research, control, control and management of fish fishing and fish farming, and to ensure that the entire population is clearly involved in the production of crops on the marine crops. You might add that this is perhaps because of the expense of infrastructure from the seabed. And the fishing fee or the resource price can be called pay on the basis of social costs of fishing and the use of our common resource. If so, it would not be unusual for a portion of the pay to become part of a rural society and the community in which it is cast out. Since the largest mail in the industry is industry, fishing is the first to feel the down cycle in the article and fluctuating the way it does. In recent years, eco-efficiency has been targeted toward technology in fishing and processing. This results in a decrease in the number of employees and, consequently, a lower exposure to the rural population. But the expense of society is often the same as before. In addition, fishing costs and hunting costs are encouraged to improve the efficiency that again costs less escape and still rolls the ball. It is natural to have a strong structure in the space, and services and infrastructure must be built so that the local community can be a powerful guardian of the development, port conditions, and all that is involved; the expense share of the rural society, the elementary school, the playground, and all that has to do with it. A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion any further. Many views have presented themselves here, as normal as this. A professional health committee will discuss the bill. The exchange of the currency does not really come into it, but it would probably be the same as the discussion of the full rights; part of the discussion is about the vindication of this price. A forward bill shows that there is much closer to making peace with one another, as it is now pronounced. Perhaps it is getting closer in time, and it is more like a local payment, that is more transparent, and there are fewer complications. The remainder of the discussion today is a righteous division, a righteous taxation. So, why don't we go put a resource tax on more resources, hot water, tourist taxes? Where do you put the dot? At least I'm gonna put the dot right here in this discussion. I express my joy by the change in the bill between councils.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u209	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I can agree with many statements made in it. There's one thing I disagree with, though, that I've heard it thrown into more speeches today but I have not had the chance of answering, and it's the idea that part of the resource price might run into the rural society. I must admit, most respectable president, that I am a busy man on that idea. Just like what? A senator came in with a number of things that result from the development of the village, and when changes occur, the rural communities are very prone to major setbacks. I wondered, " Should I add to that when the resource bills move from one town to another? ' Or has a why. A senator or any other idea of whether it directly flows to the local community, territory, or just into the country's Slocary Fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u210	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for the answer. There's a lot of education in this, but it's got whole areas, like when I look at Westland and the West, where there's a reduction in the number of construction companies. Technology has taken a job, but the effort is just as great; it does not necessarily move between villages or areas. But it might just as well be like a dog. A senator mentioned with the equation, it might even belong there, but it would have to be constructed until graduations. We would divide it, because if we looked at our goal, it would have to depend on the expense of society's development. Then it would be righteous to go to those who have the cost of some part of the community, of course also to the people of all religions, such as research, supervision, and all of that. Although such rejections are natural, we need to live up to our present times as well. But I don't necessarily have the extraction, whether it's an equation or a national organization or something, I don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u211	A respectable president. I understand very well what you're doing. A senator may not have the layout, but I thought it was important to point out this point, since I have heard it thrown out today. I have to admit that I feel that it contradicts the ideologies when we talk about resource bills and that these are the national resources to consider that we should be paid and that we should go to certain places anyway. I take my mind to the ideas of a man. The senator, when he was wondering whether to take charge of further resources, that we should really be talking about this as a resource tax and not just from the water resource but possibly from other resources used. A respectable president. I wanted at least that. use this opportunity to promote such ideas, when it is suggested that part of the price should somehow flow directly to the local community, that I feel that it is a bit fragile. When we talk about the resource being the property of the nation, it must belong to as much of the people living in the capital area or not in TV spaces where the fish are dragged to shore. The same could be pointed out if we were talking about a resource such as energy, the use of our fallen waters, should such costs be run only to the area where the source is? I don't think so. I think it's more reasonable if we collect such fees that they run into a common fund. Also, there may be reason to share them with fellow rurals through the equation fund or other such devices. But that charges should flow directly into the community, I don't think it's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u212	A respectable president. It's a discussion that needs to take place and it seems who it is. There have been reports of resource costs or costs of tourists to cover the costs of tourism. This is similar to the injury, we need to build services, ports, and so forth in the settlements, but much of it is like a harborman, paid by a government fund, even to 85%. I feel that such discussions can happen along with this, and I could also include additional resource expenditures. This is one way, at least, to balance the cost we often look at as a nation or a community. It is now a union, it could be a bigger rural or geographic region. This may come into the discussion that the rest of the village may have empty docks and no one at the pier, but the cost continues to tick.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u213	A respectable president. What is stated here today, after partially listening to the discussion, is that the rate of hunting costs remains unchanged, and none of the views that lived here are seen as the last of us in terms of small and medium-sized productions. Here is a formulaized good bill for a number of objects involved in technical aspects, factors to be found, to bring the currency closer to time, to take the processing out of these calculations, and so forth. But more than tears begin to move past the big political issues that turn to the volume of fishing costs and on the business of small and mediumsized productions. Because it's the highest. A minister is here in the hall interesting - I don't know if he's coming up to answer but if not in the next talk -- to hear if he has plans to give another bill that turns to a change in this series. I can't imagine any reconciliation that, for example, small and medium-sized structures will be completely left out in the wind, as it was said, or that the fishing fees, as this looks to a man, should be quite high to the long term - and all too high in my opinion. I've criticized that in the past on the tax issues of the government now known as this all seems to be a technical process. There's some form of tequila all over the place. And this bill has solved the situation that the officials could have solved. Yet, to no extent, the two key elements of the figure and the position of the small and medium - sized design have not been put in place. So I have to ask the highest. Marine minister: Is there another bill coming up at this council that will address the issues of small and medium-sized projects and the total volume of the fishing fee? We've seen a significant convergence in fishing sources in the past eight years. Sadly, most evidence indicates that this trend continues. But I think most of the people here in the hall - and those who could be here in the hall but are not - would agree that it is not the intention of a council to contribute to further fishing outlets in Iceland. Then it's just fine if it shows up, if it's the intention of those here. I'm not gonna have this far today. I think Mr. Örn Pálsson, director of the European Commission, said -- warned that I have just followed him - something in which he had not realized that there was no difference in the need for action in smaller arrangements. The results of this bill were merely to be considered in terms of the viewpoints of small and medium - sized structures. If my memory doesn't betray me, there was even a special book on it in the payment of the job committees last spring that their views would be viewed. It's just that you're completely returned empty. The bill is excellent in bringing the currency closer to time, in terms of the results of the production process. The bill is excellent in the fact that farming is the exception of the currency and is good in a number of technical matters. But I would like to declare a huge disappointment that the price of hunting costs are unchanged and that the measures of small and medium-sized organizations are not addressed. Finally, I want to direct this question to the highest level. Marine minister: Is there another bill coming at this assembly that will be taken at the total level of fishing costs as well as on smaller and medium-sized projects?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u214	A respectable president. We are finally approaching the discussion on this subject. First of all, I want to thank her for her, she's been great and good. Most speakers have been very talkative and have enjoyed many fine results. I'm going to answer it. The last speaker immediately: There is no other matter coming from me in the form of a question. A senator mentions. On the other hand, the points discussed all day are addressed to the Synod Committee for Professional Affairs, which will address them on the subject as well as on the subject. A senator mentions. The big lines in the discussion that has taken place here may be two, and they are interesting. On the one hand, it is the line that there is a good system, and much better than what we have, to set out for fishing costs, that there is a general agreement, but, of course, a different level of excitement. The second point is relatively interesting, but it is the thread that has been shown in the discussion here that it is necessary to add resource costs to other sectores using common resources. That's interesting. The tone printed there is relatively solidly integrated across classes and in an excellent harmony with the approach started with the reports and proposals of a resource committee in 2000. I'm really happy that it is, because it's really a very strange situation that the fishing industry is the only sector that carries this heavy load of special charge for resource use. It would be perfectly normal to take the discussion on a broader basis regarding other activities. The biggest fault of the system being discussed will be cut off and would be a good solid agreement. I see no reason to question the good will of the people about it. I also find such a wide debate about the fishing system itself, which is much different. I have declared the full will to take such discussions at any time, and I have been calling for suggestions in the material we can handle and view, from those who basically want to change the fishing system established by Icelanders. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason would have listened to my story talk if he had otherwise approached the matter. The fact is, if the sea route had failed to reach that position in 2000, when it returned this fine supply and has kept it ever since, we would not be discussing the pressures of fishing fees. In the last two decades or so, the change in this industry is tremendous, and its role in society has also changed dramatically. Today, as economist Ásgeir Jónsson described at Deloitte's conference yesterday, the surfing technical development and innovation, has been for several years. There are countless different scepters that have grown out of this article, the main source of life itself. The traditional fishing and processing jobs have declined, but there have been many other jobs that call for another type of work. There has been a completely different field for educated people, the needs of people in this article have changed dramatically. As we discuss the importance of individual companies or companies, we need to keep in mind the change that has taken place in the sector. This article is a completely different size in Icelandic, professional, than in previous years. We can agree that innovation, as defined today - when discussing support for the new creation of a larger type, and even smaller ones - always requires money, but much less human resources. Happily, we Icelanders have several nuclear branches, such as the way they call them, and the sea route is among them. Some go so far as to claim that the sea route is one of the most powerful, most important, innovations of the land. I'm inclined to believe that there is much right if we look at what's going on in secondary jobs. Let's see, for example. how commercial projects that have been built up around the fishing grounds are working new countries in Russia at this time, building the world's most ideal fishing plant. Of course, it hurts when income or employment disappears from small settlements. It hurts. However, we must bear in mind that a competitive fishing route is the key to our offering a competitive life - style around the country. There are two things that go completely together. In other words, we need to put it in context of the job position when we consider remuneration, whether in a small company or in a large one. The standard of living nations do not depend on the number of jobs that have been said, not on quantity. They depend on the production of society. The marine road in Iceland is the most industrial industry in the country. When people here speak of raising the currency, or that the currency we lay the foundation for this is too low, they must have strong faith that the production of the fishing road can grow even more. How is this going to happen in ways other than making the economy bigger, further compression, etc.? We're not that way. I believe that the rules set out here for calculating the currency, which is access to the Icelandic fishing grounds, are simple and transparent. It is so built up that our objective body stress agency pays, which is the government tax manager, calculates the basis of the laws, the rules by which the Allied Council writes in law and puts it. I don't know how this can get so much better than this, in the currency under here. I welcome the solidarity that seems to be the subject of the situation and that the employment board wishes a success in the difficult work ahead. I expect a good cooperation with the Committee to put the bill into the hands of the council so that it can become a great deal of solidarity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u215	A respectable president. I'd like to allow myself to express my joy with the highest response. A seafaring minister who seems even to assume that these two top political items will be taken firmly on a business committee that turns to the volume of the fishing fee and to the extent that small and intermediate productions come out of it. Thanks again for this reaction, and I was confident that I did not understand the minister's errors. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, I have to correct the minister - at least. He looked so firmly at me in part of his talk earlier that I took it to myself - for it was clear that I had doubts about the future of fishing warrants and compression at earlier levels. I think it's very important to say, and we've said it in the middle of the group, that the present fishing system is basically good, and we think it's the best in the world, so to speak. It's not that we're trying to undermine it or with doubts about it, in all the basics, as I say. What has been happening during the past year is that companies that were in good business, small and intermediate, are choking out of their hunting fees and how they have been calculated, which are being fixed now and that has been successful, seem to me, but the political factors remain, the factors that are turning to total heights. The total amount is still too high. I hope a professional employment committee offers suggestions for improving these issues. Then there are the views on the small and intermediate types.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u216	A respectable president. I'm glad the Central Party thinks the fishing system we live in is the best thing in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u217	It's always...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u218	I think that's a fairly common opinion for those who have discussed these matters today, although at least However, one group at a assembly feels the need to change it. I've never understood that position, but it's not the middle party. I did well with my viewpoint on the fundamental questions that arose. A senator was with them and explained to them today during a discussion. All I'm saying is, these are the views the job committee has to go through because they've been treated considerably here during a discussion. I'm not making any promise to support what appears there unless there is evidence that such decisions can be made. I have not yet seen the logical support, and in my background, I said that we had no information that this change in survival affected one model more or better than any other. The large human companies are sometimes talking about being able to stand outside someone, correct the way they are, they just reduce their jobs. There may be a large company in the small community. I call out that when people on a professional committee start discussing these things, they go over the whole area. It's not necessarily that some sort of classification that we wear in our head is supported by some reality out there. I believe that the payload as it has been and is headed for the weight of all structurally designed forms, just in varying degrees, just how hard they have to hit themselves. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. A senator should keep this in mind when I answer him in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u219	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. This is exactly one of the two that I focus on, and I think that the total volume of fishing is too high in my opinion. It's crossing the whole line. There's something else. I spoke in my previous answer that what had been happening in the last year's notice of the little project was that we saw only at the speed that men have been selling away fishing grounds in the weaker areas that clearly something was happening. Although it has not yet been two years, we see that we are trying to be in the real world. V.E.G. A minister had already entered into the importance of the building and the sceptre, and so on. When the fishing process is pressed in a way that reduces the opportunity for investment and development, it is clear. For a number of reasons, I think it is extremely important to a professional health committee to consider whether the initial approach to the fishing costs has not been too far gone and whether it is not overdosing or simply not in this process. There's no dispute here. I hope that the work committee will address these two factors, for this is how the wands will grow best and the settlements will flourish.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-27-12.u220	A respectable president. It's always a question of when the currency is too high or too low. The findings of the employment committee must be based on some basis, and there must be some agreement to be made because I may feel that some amount of money is high during the course of time. The senator feels that the same number is too low. We need to try to create a common understanding of how we will try to evaluate the situation and agree on it in order to reach some conclusion that can be made. That's how I see a professional health committee having to work. I tried to win this bill on this basis and wait. A senator should remember that this is a three - party administrative organization that requires that men carry out the work of integrity and cooperation. That means that everyone must be willing to yield to their most earnest wishes, and that varies according to the circumstances. In this case, this has been a success. All I can perceive is a good solid solidarity between the members of the board on this matter. I also feel a great deal of support among individual council members at the High Council and therefore rejoice because it is long time for matters to be paid for better than they have been. The system we're decommissioning here is totally unacceptable by our assessment of this bill. I'm happy for anyone who supports us on the road to correct the faults found there, and I look forward to coping with the rest.
