ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u1	The president wants to inform you that a letter has been received from a social and equal minister asking for an invitation to give a written answer to a covering query. 58, of the pocket money removal system in nursing homes, from Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u2	V.E.G. President. The tax collectors of the future are fully new, says the dean of Economics at the University of Iceland, Ásgeir Jónsson, in an article published in the Economics magazine and bearing the heading 0,000, or a white cat? . He also says that services for well - being will not be improved or increased unless by system change, increased efficiency, and new financing methods. It is an interesting article that deals with huge challenges in our society for the future. At the same time, there is a signal to us politicians regarding our approach to the discussion. The headline says that the time will soon come when political people will stop arguing about black and white cats and thinking about mouse hunting themselves. According to Deng Xiaoping, a writer in this regard answers to why the Communist state allowed capitalism. It doesn't matter whether the cat is black or white as long as it hunts mice. In fact, we politicians are often in a hurry to discuss these very goals, but less leads to solutions. Especially so when discussing the reasons for public service, the distinction between public service, and personal success. State and private conflicts are and become political, what is desirable and what is not. However, the indication in this applies to how we approach our discussion and take shape at the latest assessment of the National Reconnaissance of Health and Medical Services, Iceland's Medical Insurance, where the main outcome is a lack of policy and substantial lack of efficiency in the system. A respectable president. What a challenge and a need to focus on the mouse weather! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u3	A respectable president. Young Morocco Houssain Basaroi came to the country in search of life in 2016. He committed two crimes, which, in the opinion of the Icelandic government, were reason enough to put him in prison in a special situation where sexual criminals are kept. When he got to go out under fresh air, he was beaten to death by other prisoners without anyone lifting his finger for protection or protection. His first crime, in the opinion of the government, was to claim to be younger than he was, not 16 but 18 years old, and thus not a child, thus not entitled to Icelandic humanity. The other crime that appeared to call for saving at the worst place Iceland could find him was to try to escape the country. He pretends to be a child, but he isn't; he tries to save himself escape, but he doesn't have a letter that he can. For these two things, he shall be paid. Icelandic justice, human kindness. The world is full of refugees, refugees. A broken offense by a fractured offense may come to the country looking for shelter and the ability to create life. We feel that we can provide only a broken - down shelter, each one of us on it. But I hope we can make sure that such matters as these will never happen again. Human rights are universal, reaching out even to those who lie forever to save themselves and sneak into ships in new lands and even new instruments here on our great earth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u4	Mr. President. I'm going to call attention to a positive report published on Our Kingdom News last Sunday. There was an interview with Reykdalsson Roddalsson, the medical director of the Health Care Center of the capital area. There he points to a new arrangement in the funding of clinics; these are paid according to the number of individuals enrolled and taking into account the weight or the difficulty in caring for them, including the number of individuals enrolled. uffer from pre-existing conditions. As a result of these changes, waiting time at the health care of the capital area has lasted from four weeks to less than one. In recent years the National Hospital of Iceland has been working on and developing a so-called interaction system, an DRG cost analysis system, which allows us to implement new funding at the Land Hospital and, in effect, restore his financing to normal values, taking into account the number of measures and measures that are being carried out instead of using the methods we employ, to keep the Land Hospital totally on fixed budgets. This will also lead to the success of the health care of the capital area by shortening the waiting period from four weeks to less than a week's less than that, and our service will improve. I'm convinced that the people's health will be much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u5	Mr. President. Caring for our words is a good price in most cases. Yet, in a free democracy, we should be free to use big words, even insulting or hurtful, especially when it comes to political and social discussions in public. In the decision of the County Court of Reykjavík, in the law of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, the president's permission was made by the President: ▪ When it comes to determining whether a position on privacy can justify the ban on this matter will not be overlooked, the plaintiff's discussion was directed in all main respects to the commercial activities of the then prime minister, i.e. an individual who, as a politician himself, has made room for public confidential work. Politicians in general cannot expect to have the same protection as other persons regarding public coverage or other laws that guarantee confidential information. On the contrary, the public has to believe that under certain circumstances they have the right to get information about politicians that would normally be classified as private matters, especially when the information in question relates to how they have carried out their role as politicians. Mr. President. The European Court of Human Castellur has expressed the importance of public and open communication on current issues as it is an important part of official and democratic coverage, even when the expression could be called insulting or dramatic. However, in another court of Human Rights on the freedom of expression by members of Congress, it is noted that members of Congress must take particular care to uphold democratic traditions and equal rights of all. Therefore, I would like to recommend that of all members of the council who have accused the people here on behalf of their words and the difficulty of respect for the council be especially careful when cutting dishes e.g. Foreigners here or other minorities in the community in this pitament must take care of the democratic role that all of us share law and that we all enjoy human rights. [[The president calls.]] Because his words need to be observed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of a huge case that we are facing, which is the situation in transport. I see, where a recent memo is quoted at the top. The secretary of transportation is assuming that the project in front of us is about 225 billion. This harmonizes with the figures I've mentioned in the articles I've been writing lately, where I presented the figure 200◯250 billion. In view of this, we today have 11.7 billion on budgets for new business and 8.3 billion on maintenance, it shows how huge the project is. It is not patient in our community that people will be visited in many parts of the country and here in the capital area and say: It is a project to be planned in 15 to 20 years, so this project is urgent. In the recent ensuing report, industrial organizations point out that our transport transport system needs to increase to 20 billion, from 8.3 to 8.3 per year for the next five years. Of course, the capital area is a very serious concern, even though there are problems all over the country. We have not been able to build a network of transportation, and all of us will be aware of the inhibition of traffic every day. The accident rate is enormously high. The most dangerous chapters in our system, our road system, are a light - controlled road block in the capital area. It is estimated that the cost of accidents at these major light - controlled corners is more than 3 billion per year. What a sacrifice that is! It is not a matter of trying to put prices on a human tragedy. There are 712 single bridges in our system of 1,225 bridges. An accident is often a human error, but the road system must be ready to accept human error, since it will always take place. It is urgent that the box be overlooked as to how we are going to take on a major move in transport. [[The president calls.]] The project will not run away from us members of Congress. Some pledges that people can raise here on the budget, so that we can meet this, are fantasies for themselves, I think. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u7	A respectable president. During the final part of the council, I was very brief on mental health matters in prisons, and I was a little down because I had been exposed to a gentleman for a very short time, who then committed suicide on the Bolivian day after I had visited him. I'd like to mention the subject again. Because in that talk, I was trying to appeal to people's conscience and to love them as brothers and sisters of our kind who live in prison for some reason. But I also want to appeal to common sense when it comes to mental health in prisons. Prisoners have a number of compatible marks. This is not a paradox from the nation. Apparently not. Very typical problems for this group of people are things such as ADHD, drug abuse, childhood trauma, other adult traumas, etc. A major part of mental health care. They will eventually come out of prison. Then they will again become so - called members of society among us. Do we not want those who have never gone to prison and probably never leave, to see that these individuals have enjoyed good mental health because of us? Is it not far wise for us to finance mental - health services and health care in general in prisons so that when people come out, they have the opportunity to work out their own affairs, regardless of who they are? I'd say yes. And to answer yes, there is no need for sympathy, compassion, or understanding the status of a prisoner, although, of course, I would like to appeal to their good feelings as well and have, in fact, done here in my last speech of the council. But it is also possible to approach completely. I even think financially. And see that the only thing we know is to promote health care, especially mental - health care, in our country's prisons.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u8	Mr. President. Tomorrow the decision will be made at ASI whether or not to issue collective contracts, 100,000 workers, or to allow Member States to do so. This is the unique, major cause of the community that we're negotiating for right now. Since December 14, I have requested a special discussion to discuss this matter, an agreement with the labour market and the Board of Staff, with the prime minister. I was told that I could discuss this in January. I sent them a request and wanted the discussion after reporting at the highest level. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, would have arrived. She set up two committees that had recently published reports, but they were not to arrive until February 10th, so I think it was February 14. I mentioned wanting the discussion back then. It hasn't happened yet. This team - I am talking about the council work - says, by permission of a president: ◯Forseti can arrange for a special meeting, where members of the Parliament can address whether a statement is made or an inquiry for a minister. The Senator shall give a written request to the president of the United States... - and so on. But why is this? Yes, if the subject is in any way so important, extensive and immediate that it will not be included within the debate market... What do you say at the top? Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister on this matter? As prime minister, Bjarni Benediktsson spoke on a conference in the fall, with permission of the president: There is little cooperation, and the organization in a dress interview is randomly- - So goes on -- -- -- is the largest single weakness in Icelandic economics at this time... Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said to the administration, by permission of the president: I think this is the largest project in the government that takes over, to create an agreement in a labour market, I request a special discussion in which the council can talk before tomorrow's decision to cancel 100,000 contracts and discuss them here at the council with the prime minister so that we give a message to the community what we are going to do in this matter. [[The president calls.]] There are some things we can do. I'm told that I can have a discussion on Thursday, the day after the decision. [[The president calls.]] I want it to be directed to the highest. The prime minister and the president of the council are receiving this special discussion tomorrow. [[The president calls.]] It's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u9	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdottir stood up here to protect the right to offend others and, in some respects, to a measure, to a measure of human rights. Hv. On the other hand, a senator did more than that on television this weekend. It claimed that a noted senator was under suspicion of crime, of fraud. Now it seems that there is a slow delay here at the council to determine this, because the suspect must be at the level of the party to monitor the current level of observation, i.e. He must be at the council itself or its office. The council or the council's office can now determine, if this is the case. Whether false juices have been prescribed, whether or not this is the case, whether there is a fraud in the Council, whether there is such a survey, or whether it is available in the council, according to the Rapporteur's opinion. This can be cut down here at the council, by ourselves. Because otherwise it's not a suspicion. A senator, thinks what I suspect, illogical infidels.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u10	Mr. President. In the morning newspaper today, a cover under the title is presented at the end of the swing. It is a familiar tomb showing the real experience of the crown from January 2000 to January this year. The scale is set to 100 in January 2005, costing one euro 84 k. The tomb shows that in January 2000 the value was 88. That cost the euro 74 bucks. In November 2008, the value was 58, and the euro cost 170. And in January of this year, the value is 98 and the euro is 126 k. Every situation turns out to be a year nobody knows. I don't intend to guess. But there is good reason to remind us of this tomb and the story it says about the crown and the challenges of competition that are faced with these vast fluctuations. It shows that the resume contribution of the crown is not very harnessed. The problem between households and businesses is increasing with long - term serious consequences, and it is empty talking about innovation, the export of the intelligent and fourth industrial revolution as the basis for growth and success in the coming years and decades in these circumstances. We have to face this military cost at the dollar and the high risk it puts in for an Icelandic community, Icelandic home, and Icelandic company. The solution is obvious, but all too many people choose to stick their heads in the sand, and they want to try again to test the beauty of the crown, even though all their previous attempts to rely on it have slipped into the sand. [[The president calls.]] Is it not time for us to face facts?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u11	A respectable president. I would also like to make the economy a subject of talk. It is clear that from the last collapse of the political scene, we have been discussing the importance of maintaining stability in the economy in view of the terrible experience of the instability we experienced in the first decade of this century and, in fact, much farther back, if that is the case. The fact is, though, that the warning lights have flashed veins in the economy and right now, in the process of extending the extension of collective contracts that are imminent for the month's conventions, we are discussing the most visible position of the crown and the economy. The balance is just as much as it has always been, and the reason is simple: It has not been changed. The root cause has not been attacked. And yet, this government has declared it, in spite of this, we can say, a shelf of reports on the problems of Icelandic government management, to the goal, of the government's clearance center, remains a course. The government's policy in coin exchange seems to be this by a government contract, by permission of a president: The question of review of the money policy will be completed, followed by the necessary changes in policy framework. In this regard, there is no material attitude toward the need to make changes. The fine coin is fully developed. We are on the same swing as we have been in recent decades, we see the same warning signs of danger, we see the same symptoms. We see a business shut-up, a company lays down staff, all on the basis of the tremendous status of the crown, which is undermined the existence of our export work programme. [[The president calls.]] We've seen this problem before, it was the same a decade ago, it was the same thing two decades ago. [[The president calls.]] The time has come to attack the root of the problem. [[The point is, it's true.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u12	A respectable president. The members of international relief organizations have feared that the worldwide community had forgotten the tragic civil war in Syria. Indeed, the war there has been a reminder of recent times. The recent attacks of the Syrian government against innocent citizens, children, women, and men, in East Goouta certainly make us remember this terrible war. East Guhouta changed less than a week ago to the exact same thing as when the massacre in Srebrenich took place in 1995. The inhabitants of Europe's tuna are trapped and simply taken by cruelly. When it comes to cold - blooded warfare against children, the military force of President Assads of Syria is fully supported by Russian governments. And as if the shame is not enough, when Russia, China, and the United States, the regular national security Council of the United Nations, abuse their power in the council, and thus hold hostage, and are truly responsible for the relentless fighting of children; as the provisional manager of the United Nations said yesterday in his farewell speech: Great is the shame and responsibility of these states. But do we, Icelandic senators, have any responsibility when it comes to war in Syria? Yeah. We senators are indeed responsible for softening the plight of the Syrian public over the war effort. We are responsible to ensure that Iceland and I will welcome more people who flee the war catastrophe and come to us for international protection. We have the responsibility to ensure that people who come here will be fleeing humanitarian conditions under law, acceptable court treatment, and legal rights that will guarantee the human right to escape. In our foreign international work, we members of a warless nation are also responsible to speak for peaceful solutions, respect for human rights, and international agreements. We are responsible for speaking against warfare and for peace and stability. The Icelandic government is also responsible for putting peace and respect for human rights first in its foreign policy. [[The president calls.]] I am glad that representatives of the Icelandic government express deep concern over the situation in Syria and the Yemen, but they wish that the Icelandic government would protest a clear and decisive support from the Russian government in the horrors of Syria and the conduct of Russia, Americans, and China under the United Nations Security Council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to take into account a group of subjects that could now be looked under the department if there was a member of the council that would be known as another discriminatory event. Of course, that's where I mean transportation in the country. Let's go over the sequence. The first thing to say is that the road system in the country has come to its feet. There's hardly any road force that doesn't scream at maintenance or rebuilding. Four months ago, during the campaign, all classes promised to put a road case first, they would come to power. In the government covenant, the government promises a rapid development in road events. The payment of budgets reveals that the current transport strategy is down to 7 billion, and thus it is actually a small piece of paper. V.E.G. In December 2017, the secretary of transportation informs us that new transport programmes are being implemented. It's just been a while. A secretary of transportation informs us that he will not plan for transport until the fall. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson came up earlier, and in fact, he sacrificed his hand on the government of the press. What's happening? In human language, it is called the management of transport. Road sections such as the Smokey Way of Hafnarfjörður near the Hafnarfjörður, safe Gravitland Road, the road between Selephos and Hoatos, a new Elfjörður, highway 1 through Kjalares, a single-burning bridge on the way to Hornfjörður, where they are almost twenty and they are working on two this year. How long must governments do all these things? How long should drivers in a custom road system wait? When will we see a plan to start all the big works?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u14	A respectable president. A friend is the one who says "wheat, " says ancient text," good if not the noise. It is good to keep in mind, not only to listen to what your friends say to you but also to advise their friends to return to a better place. Reports now come from one of Iceland's chief friends, Denmark, that the government in that country has a plan to change punishments for crime by where they are committed. In certain parts of the country, punishment will be twice as hard as if crime were committed in other parts of the country. It may not be surprising that the neighborhoods that have been described as Ghetto or slums or that are at least arranged for them to stand out as different from other people. Everyone's equal to law. It should not matter where people live if they get lost on a path of life. Everyone should be equal to the law. If we open this door, what will we do next? Will color really matter? Sex? Sexually? Political opinions? Faith? V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs wrote in the week an excellent article in the News newspaper under the title "Man's Rights " was the cornerstone of a foreign policy. I'm celebrating this article, so I'm starting to wonder. Minister of State whether the news from our friend Dana is not a reason to call the ambassador for a meeting to discuss human rights and the fact that everyone should be equal to the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u15	Hv. President. Yesterday, in Iceland, inflation last 12 months was reported to be 2.3%, but without housing teams, inflation is negative, that is an inflation of 0.9%. This will pay the country's homes and businesses in the higher payments and higher payment loads. It is a remarkable coincidence that last night, when this information was presented, the Central Party proposed a bill to legalize that there will continue to be a trust in changing according to a consumer's means of consumption without a housing number. I challenge all members of Congress to run around this bill to protect their homes in the country and in the business. It is noteworthy, otherwise, how Iceland's Summits have been completely free of over the past few years. On average, there is inflation in the Summit measure, i.e. future stomatitis, overrated by 0.4% within one year, approximately 1.5% in the remaining year, i.e. 1 year into the future, approximately 1.9% two years into the future. It's based on the bank accounts, including the bank accounts. The next will be March 14. I could see in a fine online article that some years ago, the son of a bitch Páll, was taken to predict the finals of the soccer championship. He was a lot closer to the finals than Iceland's Secret Bank has been to its inflation projection. I suggest to the Secret Bank's money policy committee that they might be expected to make the next decision to read tea leaves. I cannot believe that the decision they make on that basis will be far more foolish than what we have seen in the past three and a half years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u16	Mr. President. There are some who minimize the seriousness of climate change, and no doubt they often saw without sufficient knowledge that mankind has anything to do with them. Nature only takes a look at us. This was in the morning edition of the morning edition, where the author always put the word "vealinger's luck points. " You may know who this is. Fortunately, others take to heart and act for the sake of reality and future interests. Of 74 rural areas, 14 have developed environmental and resource policies and two have developed both climate and environmental policies, i.e. Reykjavík and Horn fun. It's been fought almost a decade ago, with environmental and resource policies. This kind of strategy is exemplary, and now the new rural society, Sandede ◯ Garden, has started work in environmental and climate policy, taking into account the UN's global objectives and the government's policy on carbon-free Iceland 1940. Mr. President. In fact, there are other good things to do. The rural community in the South has been suggesting the energy policy of the rural community in its territory. It should be valid for 2017/2030. It takes over both energy production and energy transport. This, of course, is an example too. I'm gonna give you some cheers. Councilmen to promote such progressive work in their own districts, for this is not enough. Indeed it can, it can't help.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u17	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the insurance law. The bill is suggested to establish the insurance policy legislation in the 2014/51/ESB Directive which was not implemented at the time of law No. 100/2016, about insurance, were set. This nominated directive changed the earlier Directive 2009/138/EC for insurance activities adopted in the EEA Convention in 2011, and was introduced when the current insurance policy laws were passed. One of the many changes was a requirement for the new European monitoring institutions. The bill suggests changes in most of the European Social Security and Pension Funds that were accepted by law No. 24/2017, of the European financial monitoring system, when Regulation 1094/2010/EU, on this same monitoring facility was established here in the country. This facility is often abbreviationed EIPA. This directive was adjusted when recording it in the EEA Convention. In certain cases, authority was transferred from EIPA to the EFTA Monitoring Institute, especially in the case of binding authority to the EFTA countries. The Directive 2014/51/EU is scheduled to be implemented in the EEA contract for the first part of this year. So the bill is now submitted. EIPA was set up to monitor the insurance markets and has the Agency competent authority on control authorities and insurance companies of Member States. The legal environment is virtually identical in the Member States of the EEA Convention and is an EIPA important organisation to ensure the cooperation of the European Commission and the implementation of the Member States. EIPA has the authority to set technical regulations on insurance and the Agency has been directly responsible for some cases with control agents and can intervene in scenarios to resolve their differences. The main element of the bill is: First, it is suggested that the SEC should set up rules based on EIOP technical implementations for enterprises with a special purpose and on reports of a planned purchase or increase in an active venture in an insurance company. Second, if you are not authorized to do a field check in another Member State because of the outdoor activities of an insurance company there or if you are not allowed to participate in a field check in a branch or another member of the country, you may request assistance of EIPA or the EFTA monitoring facility. Third, the obligation of the SEC to inform EIPA on specific issues or provide specific information, including for granting a work permit or disclosure that the health insurance company will establish a branch or provide services in this country. Fourth, the EFTA Commission will decide whether the situation is unusual or adverse that there is reason for the F.S.A. to extend insurance insurance society every time it has made to restore financial conditions because it does not meet the budget. Fifthly, EIPA will be authorized to participate in the field observations of an insurance company, branch or service as a result of a national care unit if the investigation is made jointly by two or more controllers. Sixth, there are several requirements that are needed for the implementation of Directive 2009/138/EC under the health insurance legislation. Among other things, there are improvements in regulations and refinements in the field of law. Finally, it is suggested that insurance insurance laws be removed from the previous law when an insurance policy is completed. It will apply to one of the health insurance companies that are in a wearout, if it is found that the wearout cannot be completed within the specified time zone. The effectiveness of EIOP and EFTA monitoring centres as a national health care provider is not expected to be high, as their impact will only be care if there is a difference between UNECE and observational authorities in other Member States. The work of the FESI will increase somewhat as a result of more communication with EIPA and increasing data withdrawal, but the costs are not considered to be substantial. The introduction contributes to the harmonisation of national rules with the European Economic Area and Iceland will meet their commitments according to the EEA Convention. A respectable president. The main impact of the bill, if by law, is to improve the surveillance of insurance markets, thus protecting consumers and the public from adverse events that can occur in the market. I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u18	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of electronic display files. Along with the publishers of Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brryjolf's daughter, and Þóra Árnadóttir oniondotir. The proposal goes on to increase the transparency, as many good suggestions do, but it goes out of increasing pre-existing transparency and has been longer than average transparency in Iceland. Here we are talking about the publication of the annual stress logs of the head of the tax, which has been done in decades, building on the legal base as old as the one listed here, that for two weeks a year, the tax manager's work has been in front of all the taxpayers in this country. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to hide financial and economic ministers in part the electronic publication of the annual tax authorities'annual pressures on all the pressures that replace existing files and become available throughout the year until the publication of a new file. Prior to the end of 2018, the Ministers give a bill to the General Assembly of this topic. The only change is that, rather than printing a government tax manager once a year, a hard-tempered wormbook and leaving it on the screen at Lau 256 is responding to the fact that the exchange of information has developed a little since 1979 when this law code arose. Today, it would not be called a display in a suitable place that is located at Laura 256. Rather, it would be closer to being available online electronically so that everyone could approach it. It also rhymes well with the fact that tax divorce is today, as is the case with nearly all the words electronically. Icelanders are approaching this case via computer. Iceland isn't the only country with this much transparency of public pay pressures. It's a approach that is common to most North countries outside Denmark, and in my opinion reflects the common understanding that taxes are simply the fee we pay to participate in civilized society, welfare society, for having the community we live in. It may not be by chance that countries that go at most in these areas are also the countries of the world that have the most powerful welfare systems. The social trust has been developed for decades, we trust that here all contribute according to our ability, so that we can reap according to our needs, education, health systems, from the common social support network we have built for these taxes. To further the publication of this information, it would be in my opinion only to promote the trust in society in the social support network. As the proposed report shows, Sweden has publicly published its stress files since 1903. For some time in that country, e - mail has been published. Since 2010, Finns have allowed people to access comparable electronic information to the Norwegians, which has been publicized since 1863. Over the last 14 years, the information has been published electronically. It's developed a little over the years. I believe it would be normal to look to that on the Ministry's implementation of this matter. It may not be obvious until it is tested what is the best way to publish the transparency and to make the value of the published information to be as much as possible. When I say information, it's both ways because, like this in the country today, there's good income papers published once a year. Here I am at a free store last year, where the editor of that magazine has selected 3,725 individuals to publish information. These are individuals who are often chosen for random reasons to be in the spotlight. In addition, the figures that sometimes appear are based on the tax manager's budget for the year's income. They do not appear fairly to those with income other than conventional employment, so capital pay is not to form in the numbers of those on which free shops are based. When examining this electronic display, it would be reasonable to identify how to develop the information and what information is published to provide it as the most clear and clearest image of the candidate's real status in each case. You have to say, as it is, that I would love to be able to recommend this matter before the election. If so, I could have asked that it be referred to the Supreme Being. Financial and economic ministers, who were also the publisher of Free Trade for a long time. But I guess you don't control everything. I expect the case to be well treated by the uncle of the former Minister of Economic and Economic Affairs. So, in conclusion, I would like to mention that in addition to being the tool that originally opened stress files were to be, some kind of maintenance tool for the public to monitor their neighbors or what it is to prevent tax collections and tax evasion, the increased publication of these information could be a powerful tool in the fight against paylessness and the inequities that often manifest in it for the benefits of the sex. With some clear framework for the processing of these data, the items they have not been used today could be used, fixed in these published gormian folders to the government tax managers. I've finished my story and I'll expect the case to be done after 1st. to the Economic and Business Commission for payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u19	Mr. President. For the most part, I agree with this suggestion and find it very good. It is fine to have this information that is less about the person who is such. Rather, it involves more about the interaction of the person with society. The information will then be on top of the board and available. However, I am wondering, as we are about to adopt a new EU personal protection directive, where the limit is according to that Regulation, and exactly where to draw the line. There are some questions about it. This may be on either side. I think there's some kind of space involved in the publication of information determined by the law. Nevertheless, I would like to ask him why. A senator would have made a special examination. Is there any restrictions under the GDPR, the EU Personal Protection Programme? Where do they generally stand regarding the release of information? I'm afraid there may be some negative side effect on personal protection that such information will be published. But as noted in the case of who. We've been doing this for years, and it hasn't caused any serious damage until now, so I know. Likewise, Norway as well as other countries have been doing this for a very long time. So I am not afraid of the consequences, but the question is, What does this have to do with the new Regulation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u20	A respectable president. I have to admit that I've been thinking about it, but don't look at it specifically. The personality protection laws, as they are in Iceland today, were interpreted as such, and actually further, that the release of the income sheets is incorporated into the decision of the old computer board since 1995, which was, like, in 1995. A senator referred to a clear legal warrant for the release of this information. This would result in the release of income magazines within the period of publication. Without having examined it specifically, I suspect that a similar prince could be valid when it comes to the new protection laws. Especially in view of the fact that this is done in other countries in the North countries. If it has a clear law frame and is set for good reason in that frame, it should be tailored to a strict new personal protection rule in due course. But this is something that we need to consider, both of us, both in the process and then when we finally receive the bill of a new personal protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u21	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 7/1998, Code No. 106/2000, assessment of environmental impact and law No. 130/2011, the Environmental and Resource Decision Committee. The main objective of the bill is to respond to the logical opinions of the EFTA (EU), date. May 4, 2016, of the fact that Iceland did not fully implement Article 11. Directive 2011/92/EU on assessment of environmental impact, which is about the public's lawsuit. In addition, the purpose of the bill is to change the legal rights of the law on the control of loyalty and pollution. The bill was published on the Ministry's website for presentation and comments and has made several adjustments to the bill following observed comments. The bill was submitted to the 146th legislature but was not granted. The project was to restore the bill to the 147th legislature, but it could not be submitted to the Council for a brief session. The bill is now submitted unchanged. The primary objective of the bill is to ensure full implementation of Article 11. Directive 2011/92/EU on authority to sue the decision, activity and inaction in relation to the public's entry into an assessment of the environmental impact of action under the legislation on environmental impact. According to the legislation on environmental impacts and the law on the decision-making committees of environmental and resource resources, certain government decisions taken on the basis of environmental assessment are permitted. The law, however, does not contain a special charge for action and inactivity. ESA comments during the implementation of the directive point out that the above rules 1 mg. 1 1. Directive 2011/92/EU specifys three things to be charged with, i.e. decision, action, and inactivity. So action and inactivity should be particularly dear, just as a decision should be made. In order to respond to ESA comments, the bill suggests that charges of activity and government inactivity should be made in line with the public participation rights of the evaluation of environmental impacts. The bill suggests that the shareholder of the public will be determined by the law on environmental impact assessments, which is of the right to information and to address comments and data in the handling procedures under the Law. At the same time, a change in the 14th paragraph is proposed. the assessment of environmental impacts involved in excerpts. It is suggested that there will be cases of activity and inactivity that are inaccessable and are relevant to public participation. As an example, when the Agency or local administration fails to present their conclusions to the public on the provision of a specific procedure, the recruiter leaves the public's proposal that the evaluation programme or permission team do not openly reveal its decision on permission and the results of the Agency's opinion on environmental impact within two weeks of permission. As you can see, it is primarily a formality to be carried out anyway, but here is specifically included in the list of pages. 14-115 on the bill. In some cases, there may be a vague limit between unacquainted activities and inactivity. It sort of sort of sort of sort. not presented to the general public as inactive if the implementation and primary evaluation report is not presented. However, if the presentation is conducted but is not considered to be sufficient, it is a judicial ceremony. The bill also suggests a change in Article 4. Act on the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters involved in the management of lawsuits and lawsuits. These are word - changes that reflect in a clearer way the directive's requirement that environmental organizations always have legal interest in making decisions, activities, and inactivity that depend on the rules of the decision to participate in the public. With a change of section 4. a law on the decision-making board is also proposed, in accordance with the change in environmental impact assessment laws, that the ceremony and inactivity of the government, which ensure that the right to participate in the public under the latter law will be approved. Environmental assessment is a process consisting of several factors. According to the European Commission's legislation on environmental impact, the procedure will begin with the Commission assessment plan and conclude with the opinion of the Agency on the environmental impact of the Agency. Public participation is expected in several locations in this process of environmental assessment. In chapter 6 of a paper with the bill, we will discuss the financial impact of the bill. It shows that a change in lawsuit can lead to an increase in the number of charges that can, therefore, affect the rate of decision-making by the Environment and Resource Committee. The speed of issue for the decision - making committee prior to 2017 was approximately On average, on average, nine months, a law on the basis of the three to six months'speech for the Committee. As a result, an increase in the extent of the decision-making is considered to be permanent, and as a precautionary measure, this amount of expenditure will be expected to obtain only one standard value. The 2018 budget was made up of measures to increase the Agency's speech rate, and this is where it is assumed that additional expenditures may be obtained by the bill will be met by a change in priorities and/or management within the topic field. The bill also suggests a lawsuit 65. g. the legislation on the method of loyalty and pollution to the Environmental and Resource decision-making committee will be in accordance with other laws in the Ministry's topic area. According to current charges, any disagreement on the implementation of the law can be reported, which involves open and broad sources. This source has proved to be inexhaustible and evaluable and has led to a trial. The bill therefore, in accordance with the general rule of the administrative court, suggests that government decisions relating to the rights and duties of the individual must be prosecuted. So-called government decisions. Such a lawsuit must be considered sufficient and have sufficient security for the general public because of government treatment issues and specific interests. A change in the law of No. 7/1998, the method of loyalty and pollution, reduces charges. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u22	Mr. President. I'm not here to counter this, but I'm just gonna bring you a quick introductory discussion of this bill. There are needed improvements in the laws on loyalty and pollution control and other laws. It is quite obvious that this is a response to the logical opinion of the EFTA, ESA. Of course, it is urgent to take action in the right way. This is a complex matter with regard to song and song. It is very clear from a long report that there are opinions or interpretations that are being understood and that are in itself well understood. Most important of all, though, is the involvement rights of the public. He should be strengthened and respected. That, then, may be the key point of reforming those laws. The entire process of assessments of the environmental impacts of action is very important and much used in a process related to our environment and quality of life, and it is therefore very important to carry out in the best way at the righting of the public and community members and other machines against the administration and specialists. There are some factors considered in the reviews, the Land Protection, the United States of Iceland, the Organization for Employment and Organization. This is made up of very carefully the report. If this bill is approved by the law, as stated here, special charges of action and inactivity related to the role of the public in the evaluation of environmental impacts and such changes in the laws of loyalty and pollution, where the charges will be clearer than at present. I consider it to be a bill for the benefit of everyone, especially our environment, and to be spoken of by the highest degree. Environment and resource minister before me that the case will be referred to. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u23	A respectable president. What worries you about the review of this case is very consistent and strong comments published by the European Union and the Association of Employment. We all know the problem we have been discussing, and in fact, we have entered the government covenant with our present government, i.e. about the delays that have been made in the implementation of practical projects, the necessary internal structure in the country, where the unpredictable appears to be high and lenient and charges have greatly reduced the success of human beings with very important projects, and often, I may seem to be a small basis for agreements between parties to take place. I'm going to quote what it says in the government contract, by permission of a president: Then the government groups agree [...] on public access to environmental decision-making through the aims of ensuring that the right is ensured at the previous stage of the license process and treatment may become more efficient...-◯ Special concern is due to administrative procedures that have taken considerable time. For example, for example, the Landsnet, which builds up the main transport systems of electricity in the country, has been unable to work on new lines for ten years in the main transport system, with the resulting consequences for the rural development. So it says that it must be done and that it is important to take the speed of a court case. It's in the review of the Union's Icelandic community that comes in, among other things. to help protect the relationship from the changes proposed to the environmental impact and the law on the decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources, where these change will be far beyond the necessary values of the Community's lawyers in order to respond to indications from the EFTA, ESA. Then the review says, with the permission of a president: The change in law enhances the misunderstandings and the period of organizational treatment. Even now there is a chance that a planned procedure could be carried out in many phases of the court treatment and on the basis of different laws. The treatment period for the Environmental and Resource Decision Committee typically involves 18 months, and each case can result in a lot of delays in implementation. Emphasis must be made to shorten this waiting period. The cost of a community partner and an executive for the sake of the lawsuit can become very high, which cannot be considered desirable from a national perspective. The premeditated adjustment seems to further increase the unpredictable and insecurity that exists today. I'd like to mention one example of making a small project that is currently in a delay in charges, a so - called Bridge Year activation in the southern Blue Forest, in the upper part of the Tongue River. This is 9.9 megawatt activation. The work permit release of the community was reported. There were two accusers who had not been identified when the main organization was changed to make the use of hydropower possible. There was no word from these sources as a process of mobilization was made, not when all of the workers were evaluated for environmental impact. All conditions of the organizational and assessment procedure had been met. Whether the network's Environment Committee had formally discussed the matter and given a review to the rural government, which said a technical point on a weak foundation where the project had gone through both the organization planning procedures, as well as the information it provided in the environmental assessment process. This project had been given green light, had had had to be started on road construction, had to set up work camps, and so on, when those people who had never made comments in the entire assessment process decided to press charges. The damage to those who are doing this is serious. This is expected to be about 40 million a month. We saw how long the treatment period can be. The job had already been asked out. This is an example of how these laws work today. These are the examples of those in whom I am witnessing when describing their concern because this bill adds even more to this misunderstanding. It also says on the subject of the European Union member of the United States, with permission of a president: ▪ The aim of the changes is very vague. The problem of the adjustment is not clear. There is only a vague discovery of ESAs that some of the law is missing. It would be preferable that for a much more detailed explanation of practical examples or the reference to a European Court of Judgments on how legislation does not meet the requirements of the directive. In this context, it is crucial that all concerned have a common understanding of what is meant by inactivity in the sense of Article 11. Directive on environmental impact assessment. In view of the relationship, this term is much more widely interpreted in the bill code than the directive does. I think we've all heard the discussion over the past few years and even decades that there was a particular trend in Icelandic administration in general that introduces the European Union directives, which are usually interpreted by relevant professional institutions and introduced in Icelandic legislation. I'd like to give one example of what was somewhat striking and perhaps not weighed heavily on the wheat bed. It was the so - called maffins affair that one of you may recall from a few years ago. In other words, after we had introduced European food laws, it was about that parents of the fourth category, if I recall correctly, sports partners in Akureyri, were not allowed to enter a maffkins drive to go to the fund for their children, build up travel funds, except into a legitimate kitchen. This had been through legislation as a means of induction, in the opinion of experts in the subsets of this mountain. The Parliament reacted strongly at the time. I sat in -- I don't remember if it was a industrial committee or after it was combined on a professional committee, but we took the case to ourselves and suggested a change in plans. At that time, the representatives of the Agency, which were expected to come to us at the time, said that it was at least necessary for the parents or female communities who are seen in many parts of the country for intensive drinking, etc., to apply for a formal license and to pay for that provision by the Agency. On the contrary, we senators agreed to push all of this off the board and eliminate all this nonsense from the legislation. It was an accident. I'm sure there are other accidents that have occurred. There is a reason to pause and wonder if there can be one of these, which will go contrary even to the aims of the government that is now involved in the government covenant. It says more on the behalf of the European Union member of the United States, by permission of a president: ▪ It should not be necessary to administer a lawsuit because of the problem of a legal treatment. In accordance with current legislation, the majority of the problems that the Court's decision to protect the interests of those in interest of a decision may be delayed, although the decision of the administration is not to be made by those in position of interest until the decision is published. It is difficult, then, to reason that there is an improvement in the rightness of someone's rights to be so clear that it justifies a change of law. Business society's organizations do a little bit of the same in their review of the matter. It says, by permission of the President: ... that the suggestions presented in the bill are not a solution to the subject's logical view of ESA. If an organization fails to introduce its findings to the public, it will interfere with the decision that will continue until the accused is aware or could be informed of the decision. The organization understands ESA comments so that a lawsuit must be in place when the Organization fails to make a decision. This can be replaced by a simple change in 14th paragraph. adjusted the assessment of environmental effects Also says: ▪ As mentioned, the bill is being suggested for a change in law No. 106/2000 and No. 130/2011 so that special charges due to activities and inactivity related to public participation will be established due to evaluation of the environmental impact of the projects under law No. 106/2000. You can already find the rules of the law for making a decision. The Union of Icelandic rural society is a vague object of change, stipulation 4. The bill is unnecessary, with 1st pars. track No. 130/2011 is authorized to refer to administrative decisions and differences to the decision-making committee, to the legal modification of the misunderstanding and to a longer period of organizational treatment, to have the precedent for further change in organizational and environmental legislation...•which is probably a major reason for making a thorough review and review from baseline. It may be nice to get information from the highest level. Ministers on where that work works, which size is, because other matters are there in preparation, which I already understand in conflict with the same person. An assessment of the impact of this bill shows that the number of charges facing the decision - making committees is likely to increase as a result of these changes. Hardly, then, is it meant to achieve the goal of increasing the speed of a trial? It is also expected that the cost of an increase of the charges will be, as the bill puts it, although there is uncertainty about the scope of the bill. It is proper to assume that. The bill says: It should be noted that the number of cases under consideration by the Environment and Resource Commission is considerable and was expressed at the Commission's office's rate in 2017 around the year. On average, on the basis of each case, the law is calculated to include three to six months of pay period at the Committee. The increase in the number of charges could affect the pace of words to the worse. The conclusion of the Ministry is that an increase in the extent of the decision-making may require a permanent increase in the spending of the Environmental and Resource Committee, as a precautionary measure, that these expenses will be considered to be of only one standing value. The impact of the bill on the Agency remains that delays may be implemented if the treatment is based on assessment of the environmental impact of the Agency. A respectable president. Just so that all misunderstandings are brought to the ground about that, I think there's a very important part of our work in the environment. The hat can be taken above those who have stressed these matters in recent years and have seen the results and changes in our treatments for these matters. I think we all agree that it was very important, and we should continue on that journey. On the other hand, when you hear it from various parts of the administrations outside the town of its own organization, it is becoming so clear that it has become a well-founded determination of the institutions that often determine the issues of environmental assessment, that the matter should be handled, and these means that the law is not clear enough, then there is a reason for starting an overall review. I'm not sure that any disagreement with that particular issue could lead us to solve it in some kind of peace. I think it's time for us to dust it off and take this bigger step and try to reach the goals that arise in the Treaty of the current government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u24	A respectable president. We're here discussing the bill for changing the laws on loyalty and pollution, environmental impacts assessments and laws on the decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources and the special charges of action and inactivity. Thank you very much. Minister for the advancement and his speech earlier. I just want to get into the big picture and fear that it's too complicated. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson came in earlier that this may be a relatively complex bill. You see, it is. It is technically very complex to read through it and to see exactly how it might have affected. Now, I'm going to reiterate that I'm very into the community participation right now and that we encourage the public to have an opinion on important projects. I think it's very, very important. But I may mention this especially on the grounds that I have considerable experience working on organizational matters. In 2008, I'm sure, new planning laws were introduced, in which a secondary process was introduced that included a description of the project before entering a new shared organization. It was required that this be introduced to the public so that he could come to the subject earlier in the process, which was to be very positive. I have experience with this, I've had a lot of these meetings, and I've never been thanked for holding a meeting earlier in the process and allowing people to make comments earlier, but I've been told: there's no answers here, you're just saying what you're going to do or maybe you're going to do. How are you going to solve this? Then you try to explain that it may now be part of the process, to answer these questions, and my experience is, at least, that the public does not feel this as an opportunity to have an opinion of what is going on. I'm primarily coming up here to point this out. I got it. I got it. The Environment and Transport Committee to review it only. Like what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson came in only earlier, I ask: Is there still another need for further changes in this legal environment? I don't think we should meet up with any of the tips that may be on, that we haven't made this clear enough, what we think is ESA. So I think there's a good reason why we should think about this. When important projects are being carried out, which most of us are involved in environmental and environmental matters and are disturbed, it is very normal for the public to have an opinion on what is being done and in what ways. But I wondered, " Is this law really becoming so complex that he does not invite the public to participate and have an opinion? ' My theory is that the process has become so complicated that there are more and less experts in this town where a number of experts are working to make a number of reports, such as even management and how much the common people just don't have the perfect chance of putting themselves in. I was wondering if we've got a system like this for the system, but not a system for the people. This may have been a more general comment, and I suppose that both the highest. Minister and minister. The Environment and Transport Committee considered this in the context of this bill and perhaps more people who may come from the highest level. Minister. I also wanted to ask the highest. Minister only to the entry court: what it means, i.e. is it a law, then, to publish only the relevant information on a website? Do Advertising Really Need? Do we need an open meeting? What is the requirement for the privilege of participation? And then I'd like to point out that I'm very eager to get tips like this: Yes, maybe a lot of things have been worked and put on a Web site or advertised, but where is the real person involved in the case? If the highest. A minister may review how we can see that in action. Finally, I would like to point out what is stated in the bill's report that the decision - making committee takes today about nine months to determine such matters. That's an average. I've seen decisions that are considerably older than that. It must tell us something has to be done. Could be what is mentioned here, adding the human resources of the decision board so that it can work faster, or we may have to simplify our system in some way. That's what I said, thank you very much. Minister for this and wish. The Environment and Transport Committee is successful in reviewing this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u25	Hv. President. Thank you. Parliamentaries for their excellent introduction to the discussion. First, I'd like to state that the Ministry had an external legal opinion in preparing these legislations, and that was part of doing this as clearly as possible and that ESA indications would follow up. Only with regard to the comments presented, and reference was made to the Union of Icelandic rural society and the work community. Business organizations made a comment at Article 3. the bill that has changed the law on environmental impact assessments. They felt that these changes could be made simpler. It is to be said that this is to suggest a change in the law on activities and inactivity in connection with the community's participation rights because of decisions already contained in the law. Therefore, the Ministry's assessment was that considering the opinions of the case's clarity was precisely stated in the bill which cases were indictable. Rather, the proposal for a business organization involves the openness of the law. Thus, in this case specific activities and inactivity are being identified, which is the very essence of what the EFTA Institute of Observation notes is to be lacking. Regarding the activities of the European Union as well as the activities of the European Union at Article 4. The bill, which is a change in the law of the decision-making board, and now I have to agree that this is often and often complicated, is the first of three laws under which and is a lot of what you fall by. The European Union and the European Union believe that this change is unnecessary to the law on a ruling committee. The Ministry counts in the case of the change to 4. the one involved in the case and the charge is required to address the same procedure as the charge for possible violations of public participation. Thus a law on the ruling committee is being made clearer, considering that it applies not only to decisions but also to possible violations of public participation. I recently had a meeting with the Commission of Environment and Resources, since I specifically discussed with them the lawsuits of the decision - making committee. The government and the General agreed to a proposal on the budget to raise a considerable amount of money to the Committee. I've never set up an institution that's only okay with the suggestions that have been shown in the budget, but it was a pleasure to experience them. The committee believes that this year and the next, they will be able to work at this lawsuit. Still, I will be very careful about how this works, for the shortness of the infusion is in everyone's best interests. He must be shortened, and that is what all of us wholeheartedly agree. I would like to mention the general discussion of possible delays and other such events that we are primarily talking about very large projects, projects under environmental impact assessments and projects that will evaluate environmental impact. I'm not as worried about this as anyone would have. Because this transition is being made to conduct activities and inactions, as well as to indicate a proposal for an assessment plan or presentation and to advertise the opinion of the Agency and the rest of the congregations. So I'm not as worried about this as we've just learned, and I hope it's a reason. In the same way, this too could function to allow these same people to get the more involved in their jobs because over them it is possible that there could be a lawsuit. We know that they do not speed up the project. Then I'm going to get a little more into what was discussed here, about the bigger picture, and whether this system of ours is too complicated. First of all, I think it's absolutely necessary to re-evaluate the law on environmental impact assessments. In this regard, both the law on the assessment of the environmental impact of the Agency and the laws on the assessment of the environmental impact of the programme should be considered together, and the way this is done abroad and around us. But that's one of the things I'm going to start right now on the spring day, starting an overall review of the law. In particular, I want to make sure that the reviews of the entry rights and that the participation cannot be made earlier in the process. I wholeheartedly agree with them why. It is fundamental that we try in all ways to create a system in which the public sees the advantage of being involved earlier in the process, since this can be far more important to the public than in the later process. By doing so, we are also reducing the likelihood that a lawsuit will be the last in the process. Then there are natural projects that are very subversive and that are harder to avoid. I agree with the need for a comprehensive review of the law and the need for the general public to be able to handle matters earlier in the process. Is that also completely in accordance with the requirements of the European Treaty? Only to answer a question about what is meant by the right of entry is it actually an definition of the environmental impact of the Law, in fact, no change of how it has been performed so far. It's getting tighter. I want to thank you. The members of the Parliament have a very good discussion on this subject and wish the Environment and Transport Committee a success in continuing to work on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u26	Mr. President. I'm here to recommend a council proposal that's going to stand in addition to me. paritaprevir Jólddír Valmarsson, Víglundsson Körtrín Gunnarsdóttir, Katrín Ævarsdóttir vívarsdótir, Helgi Gunnarsson, Mólr Mccarthy, Halldóra Mogensen, and Jón Þór Ólafsson. The motion is as follows, by permission of the president: The General concluded to hide transport and local government minister to eliminate the maximum number of jobs required for driving a car, reduce costs for their services, and open an Icelandic rental market for increased competition. We had interesting discussions about these matters last week, where I had the beginning of a conversation at the highest level. A secretary of transportation and other council members for freedom in a cab market. It was interesting to hear both the current minister and the former minister, eh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson expresses his interest in reviewing the current arrangement. However, the motivation, as it may be said, may not be least due to pressure outside where the EFTA monitoring agency is now running a so-called initiative check at the Icelandic cab market, i.e. reviews the law and regulations that apply to driving cabs in this country. It's about One year since the Agency made a critical statement on the Norwegian law on rental vehicles, much like the Icelandic language. There the Agency concluded that the Norwegian Lab law involved a violation of EEA rights. The main concern of the Agency is whether there is access inhibitions in the Member State of Icelandic rental legislation on the number of job restrictions in certain areas as well as on the requirements of the European legislation on halt. In the case of the highest. A transport minister in the special discussions that took place last week, and I refer to this point, that the staff appointed by his predecessor to respond to ESA observation, the EFTA monitoring agency, and reviewing the routine of driving will report a final report to the minister in the second March, but he has already submitted a preliminary report with the evidence that it is necessary to eliminate the number of employment restrictions in certain areas such as those being done on other continents. It's under the highest order. Ministers believe that the work force suggests that there is much to indicate that there will be a legal issue in the form it is today but that other means of change can also be sought in order to bring to a loss of service to consumers and that general requirements will guarantee the quality and safety of all motor vehicle services. A respectable president. So I testified again in last week's discussion there in the case of certain individuals who said that there was no point, even unnecessary, in order to bring up this council arrangement because the matter was under way. There was a bit of the mood for a few in this discussion. However, the matter has been under way for a few years, with a range of consistent flows, but still a channel for governments as a class of today's highest level. This is exactly what the secretary of transportation has been doing. And, ex, in case of that. And what has it done? Yes, taking initiative from the EFTA Institute of Observation because it is clear that the Icelandic tenet laws violate EEA rights. Since I am referring to the situation today, I also find it difficult to ignore the news transfers of changes in human society that have maintained the views of freedom on this matter. And no, it wasn't the Nite Owl's representative that replaced it. These changes are not directly designed to increase the belief that the aim is to increase freedom in this market. Except perhaps just as it is most necessary for all to meet the conditions of the European Economic Area Convention. However, it is not impossible to point out that we can go further if we want to. We can be as liberal in these matters as we want to be. I hope and trust that the matter is actually in the direction of greater freedom. This interpretation proposal and envelopes of stakeholders to which it can be expected, if the case gets a course here today, are an important tool for the work and suggestions of the staff. The opening point is that the government's intervention to determine the maximum number of cab cars has a radical impact on the steady state between supply and demand in the largest market area is accustomed. There is no evidence for the State to run foreboding in this service in excess of others. I don't think there's any reason to worry about the fact that the market does not achieve the balance of supply and demand, rather than in many others, more complex, delicate, and money - consuming markets. Of course, we should have rules, as we do about other activities that we want to ensure that we are professional. But as in other places, we can guarantee professionalism without the limitations of free competition that are in value in a taxi market today. A respectable president. Although I've largely referred to the interests of consumers in my case, I don't think that the car driver's interests can be taken lightly. Far from it. Their employment freedom calls for their right not limited to making more money through increased independence or the way they choose to sell their services. Just as it is important to reduce public fees laid on this sector, so they have much to do in maintaining prices. It is also time for cab drivers in the capital area to have the freedom to choose whether they will be working in a cab station or by themselves and cancel the rent fees. If the drivers want to continue working at cab stops, they'll stay behind, but only for the driver they want. One of the proposed changes to this proposal is a review of the current requirement for a legal fee under the supervision of the Agency in all cabs. This medicinal product inhibits these medicinal products. technical development and related innovation in this service, such as payment through a smartphone program. I specifically mention from the discussion last week that the argument was that these legal requirements ensured the maintenance of monitoring and the limitation of effective collections of public pay and would therefore be subject to a check for black employment in this article. Since this was specifically mentioned, I want to be among those who do not know that I am now number more than 40 you. Members, it's just that not everything on the table all the time. And out of the unregistered transactions that take place, it may be appropriate to also be able to handle this statement, that according to the government taxpayer's information, cab drivers do not submit data when they recognize the tax stock of their income. They pay themselves and they don't guarantee anything. On the contrary, the changes discussed are in my opinion that will reduce the number of jobs where interested ones have more options. I don't see why, within the general legal framework of a cab driver's personal business, such as others, such a black operation should be promoted. The opening of the market in no way prevents those who open up to use like others in the Icelandic labour markets from paying pay and other public fees, in accordance with the laws and regulations involved. In this country, we have a pretty clear rule of business. We are talking about freedom with responsibility and social subsidiary clearly does not agree with that. A respectable president. For taxis to play their important role in the public transport system, services need to be available and affordable. Healthy competition is the key to achieving goals. When more people could park their private car permanently, they choose to do so, and new buses and cabs mixed in order to do their business at lower expense, less stress on the road system, less hovering, and more environmental protection. My interest in this matter of freedom, freedom in this market, focuses primarily on the fact that taxis in different forms will be more fully part of the solution to the challenges facing our public transportation. This requires a more varied supply and a more varied price to do so. There may not be a chance that this solution will fall into our arms when the market here is finally released. We need to keep on walking. Modern technology has been huge in this industry, but it does not provide the end of it, and there is no one quick answer, no one of the best solutions ready. But I am confident that we will find these solutions more with freedom than with heads. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation mentioned last week that it was not enough to scream freedom, freedom. That may well be so. But how much better it would be to cry out for the end, the end, and the hope that the world will stand still! He won't. I look forward to referring to the release of a committee where the reviews of different parties with different viewpoints, but which are agreed to accept the discussion on this subject. I trust we can work together on a better system to protect everyone's interests and peace can develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u27	V.E.G. President. It is not surprising that in all the cases laid before the Council at any given time, there are issues that you do not understand at all. I admit it here and now I don't understand this case, just not at all. Reading this report raises an enormous number of questions, and I'm going to try to help a few very quickly. As far as I can see, if these requirements are lifted, we can take a taxi that is fired from a bankrupt man who doesn't own his car, has been judged for fraud, and cannot carry luggage because of his disability. I am now a spokesman for those with impaired ability to work as they are able. But I ask myself, " How in the world is this different when all these conditions are relaxed, how does this feel about those who enjoy this service? ' Then I hit one thing I find strange. According to government taxpayer information, between 2011 and 2010, income in this article has increased dramatically. I ask myself, " If it was the same thing with the furniture stores, were we going to charge up the conditions of opening a furniture store? ' Because we see that there is money left to be crafted? I just don't understand this case. I can't get where people are going. Then there's one more thing. An increasing potential for consumers to choose from different service points at different price levels and to help larger groups use public transport is reported. Wait, how does it work to increase the number of cabs to enable people to use public transportation? I admit it again, I'm not smarter than this, I just don't understand this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u28	Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not going to get caught up in any thoughts about why. A senator does not understand what he does not understand. I think it may only be that he may not have read the suggestion well enough or that he may want a more detailed explanation for something or even just a discussion on a committee, which is exactly what is required of this matter. Since these were quite a few things. A senator killed on the first thing I'm going to do with fraud, bankruptcy and disability. There's a lot of professional freedom in this country. None of the points mentioned here are to do so on their own, and to make all those who under it fail to drive a cab. However, we have considered that there is good reason for a person who has repeatedly committed violations of traffic laws to be excluded from having permission to drive a cab. In addition, someone who has committed sexual crime. But I must admit that I stand almost as understanding as why. A senator's list of his symptoms or past individuals who are supposed to disassociate them to drive a cab. I would like to know more about the connection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u29	Mr. President. It seems that both me and a messenger are equally understandingless. But there was one point to be needed: How is an increase in the number of cabs needed to result in the greater use of public transportation? Those who run a cab today are the independence of professional drivers. Will we, then, relax in other forms of independence from employers that they are not its masters, have been guilty of crime but continue to operate as if nothing had happened? Is that the message we want to send to society? I don't just have this fine class, taxi driver, underneath. There may be others. I can now think of those who run cruise boats or, so I'm just random, who run my own business. I say again, what is it like to go to a tax file and look for the branches of professional and national life that have flourished and pour into those competitions? I'll ask you again. I mentioned a furniture store earlier. If people suddenly found out that a bakery had multiplied in 2011-2016, are we just going to bake crabs in every other house and compete with the fine class? [[Up front.]] Many jobs in Iceland are legally protected, and they have a measure of security because of their laws. For example, I notice one here. I said, "A borrower's failure is a fraud on his back. " I don't see anything in the report on car insurance. Who'll pay the bill if a guy with a loan car hits a lamp post with a passenger and opens the door? Who's paying for it, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u30	Yeah. Thanks again. I have to say about such reflections. A senator, about whether the idea is to give everything free and then change the rules of private business and other business to keep it free: I'm sorry to say it, but I'm sorry. A senator has not listened very carefully. I told you precisely that it would not be necessary to have such detailed rules on this business because there are other laws and regulations on government business. We're very serious about doing a great rule work here in Iceland as far as it's concerned. How can the growth and diversity of a cab market increase public transportation? It's very easy for me to answer. Thus, a lot of people who want to take advantage of public transportation are able to make it up to a certain extent. There's always some special situation where it's not right. If so, it is very good to be able to handle cabs, whether they are museum cars or less expensive cars or cars that you know are on some particular bus. There are all kinds of exports and in most places more than one, as we live here. It makes it possible for more people to take advantage of this combination of public transportation and cab cars. This is the experience in many foreign lands, although it is not necessarily absolute. At any rate, many have called for it. Yes, about the fact that the report contains information about well - being. It is simple to answer. It was simply being examined. There is one basis for these ideas of change: In recent years, there has been an increase of approximately 15% in cabacres here in the capital area while a number of citizens with passenger passengers have increased by about four to five times. It is simply one of the facts that lie underneath, and it provides the basis for us to examine or suggest these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u31	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this proposal for interpretation and would like to inquire about the contents better, i.e. Whether the senator has information on these matters in controlled countries, i.e. correspondent in the north, in Europe, and in the United States Whether or not there is a similar limit to the publication permit as recognized in the country. Then I'd like to ask, too. A senator knows if she has any idea of how to monitor the current rules. Is there anything on the mind to see if the permit holder has this job? Does she know what happens when a permit holder lends his car or arranges another car to drive it for some time? And if they get paid under collective contracts, etc., if all of this is on the table. As for this council proposal, I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he is anything, perhaps after a question or two. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson earlier, to suggest complete disregard for a taxi market. Is it not still expected that a person who plans to drive a cab will need to apply for permission and show that the person is qualified? I'll do it for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u32	President. Thank you. A senator answers the questions. It's so much that I'm sure I can't get it in one traffic, but I'll try. With regard to the situation in other countries, I think such work is being done in all the states of the United States, adapting the regulations of the European Union. Norway received a note a year ago, as I mentioned earlier, and Dan's looking at this as well, so work is on its own. But I think the most stringent legislation is in Norway and Iceland. Regarding the possibility of total self - control, it certainly is not. It is very clear that we want to reduce the number of supplies, but that is still the way, at least in the ideas we have suggested, that there are courses and tests and so allow them to do so. Then what I mentioned earlier, we're going to say another one. A member of the council on sexual misconduct or repeated violations of a license or anything like that. I'm missing one question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u33	...watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u34	Yeah, it's a Transporting Room. I don't know exactly how hard it is and how much initiative they take to look after it, but I do know that there are exceptions. You may be able to deposit or pass it, and you will hear the person under the same direction. At least they're being watched. But I'm not quite sure how much initiative a Houseroom is in the surveillance process. Others can answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u35	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for these answers. Add two questions. On the one hand, whether the senator can see the present situation, i.e. with such totally unsupervised groups, such as the drove on Facebook, whether this may prevent such a group, in some way, may not limit the risk, but the situation in which there is no surveillance and we do not know who is going there. See what? A senator realizes that this can increase the use of citizens in taxis by increasing their numbers and by becoming competitive? Besides, I'd like to ask who. A senator sees that there will also be more competition in the price of this driving, i.e. When we get into the cars, it's more competitive when it comes to starting fees and miles.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again resists. I can say that it is quite ready, as mentioned at the beginning of my speech, that these issues are being examined and part of the proposed items will become reality if and when a group of people returns their proposals and the case goes on. I assume that much of the number of people making use of the shuttle group will be affected. At the same time, I believe it's good. This is going to take place, and there will be some possibility, an excellent possibility, of monitoring. There are then people with permission who have undergone some form of responsibilities, and there are many simpler ways to look at them. In terms of prices, I can see that, too. When the supply of cab drivers and taxis becomes varied, it is in nature that it allows to be with different prices, ranging from the way the service is served to whether it is called museum cars that many people know from abroad and have something to do and do not want to be alone in the car and gather together, extending the travel a little less money for. Thus, the variety is very likely to contribute to the diversity of prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u37	A respectable president. I'm an importer for this proposal and I'd like to discuss this controversial matter. First, I want to say that I understand fully that this is a controversial matter. I can appreciate that it stirs strong emotions. It is only natural for people to experience strong emotions in the face of intense changes in the working environment that may have been spent much of the time and even money. I understand that. However, that does not change the situation. This does not change the facts we now face. The discussion on this subject is entirely similar to the overwhelming debate on authoriality, which Piratar and I have played a major role in the past, and in fact, the entire basis of the group's existence is based on opposition to rejection of rights to look into the present and future only and stop trying to hold onto a world that will never be again. We're not exactly there when it comes to this profession, taxi cars. True, this will happen slowly, but it will take place and will be done more quickly in the future. It's a fact, there's nothing we can do about it at the High Council, and there's nothing we can do to stop it. That's just how it is, the technological development will be better or worse, and it's totally ruthless to the business models we think we rely on or have rely on in decades. She just doesn't care. To say the importance of such changes, we try to take into account existing interests and to try to soften the landing, for it can become very hard if things are not right, certainly. I am not completely aware of exactly how to do this, and of course, there are changes in the way some people grow, and they are not necessarily ashamed, they can be very unpleasant, bad. But it doesn't change the situation. In this context, Uber is often referred to as an elevator and a shuttle group on Facebook and stuff like that. I want to draw attention to the fact that these are just three specific examples we know, but all of them share in the common use of modern technology in their industry. Uber does so in her own way, not much of a country, if I understand correctly, even though these companies are large and large abroad, with various consequences. But during the discussion, at least in this country, by the way by the cabby I've been talking to, there's all the shuttle groups on Facebook - if there are more than one, I just don't know. I don't use them, I just use cabs and I'm very comfortable with them in general. I want to draw attention to the fact that there is a problem similar to that of the authorship of the old school. We don't remember shutting down any Facebook shorts here, and we're not gonna turn anybody in this country into a police officer to keep an eye on it. As long as people have freely communicated, this activity will not only be possible, it will be easy - very, very easy. It will never be stopped, never ever, except by making it a state of police which I suggest no one contributes to or just that we surrender. I propose a third option which is allowing this, to loosen the rules, to stop this mass limit at first, at least to get rid of them considerably. I'll go out a little more in the crowd later, but, yes, we're supposed to stop them. I realize that it sounds terrible for a cab driver today. If our demand for this group of people or groups is that they work through transparency, they give up taxes, they obey the law, and if anything happens, they can be picked up. If we want them to work in a legal environment, the work must be legitimate. If it's illegal, there'll be no transparency and there's no transparency, then there'll be little or no taxes -- I'll be absolutely determined that some taxes are paid, I haven't studied and I'm afraid to claim it, but it'll surprise me because these people are working in an environment that doesn't allow them to work. It's illegal, it's not authorised, so how do taxes work that they don't have the right to participate in? This is the problem I suggest everyone agrees with the need to resolve. There are a lot of complaints about this and I agree with them, it's a real problem, and we're supposed to solve it. But that is not a matter of rejecting the advances in technology. Facebook is not going anywhere - or I'm going to take it back, Facebook is going, but technology is going nowhere, communication isn't going to go, and there's no chance that people are going to gather in some group to pursue their common interests. The arrangement we now have may well have been very logical two or three decades ago, that may well be, even one, I don't know. Today it stands in the way of progress, such as that the public citizen can perform this service legally, specifically, paying his taxes, responsibility if something arises, which is the security factor that we all expect to solve. It's not about Uber or lift or this particular Facebook group. It's about technology itself. But I say again that I'm very pleased with the cab service, at least in Reykjavík, and I'll use it pretty much if it goes out, and other solutions, such as the bus, which I strongly recommend. It is often spoken as if only the present arrangement can ensure a certain level of service, a measure of security. I have to say right now, more dignified President, that I don't quite believe it. In Iceland, taxi drivers are generally strict-minded, they go the right way, they're not trying anything you don't want them to try. We live in a very good society in this regard, in general, a very honest society. In general, you don't have to worry about stealing things from someone in a coffee shop, and in general, you don't have to worry about it, if ever, that a cab driver is scraping you. But there are countries where it is. I will mention one country, which is the Czech Republic, where I was relatively recent. There I made the mistake of taking a Czech taxi that, of course, wanted a much higher price for the drive than I could, the driver went the wrong way, and all that. It's typically in some communities, unfortunately, where society is not exactly on the same level as here. That's where all Uber and everybody I talked to said, "Don't even think about taking a Czech cab, take Uber. For what? Yes, because you know the price in advance, you can't be ripped off, you can't be betrayed, and you can't betray the driver. You know where he goes, it's all clear, it's transparent, it's all safe, and it's all convenient, and it's for the consumer. Of course, the difference is not so clear here, for we are so lucky to live with a totally strict cabby and good service in general, so we don't see this difference. But it's not our legal environment that makes it work, these technologies, such as Uber or Lift or Facebook group, or whatever comes next, can do the same and even better. While there is not necessarily a special need for it in Iceland, this technology can be sure. Technological advances in driving cabs in Iceland have not been an enormous figure. They've been some, but they're very similar to the ones we're carrying here more or less of all, which is the smart phone. We have GPS, they can order on the Internet and more. But things like seeing where the car is when you call a cab and see where it is on a map and he can see where you are on a map, that you can pay in advance with different ways, such as cash, debit card, credit card or PayPal or anything, whatever the matter, just by various means, all the ways that you can do today. There's not been a development in it at a Icelandic cab market, there's really no barrier, there's just no motivation for that. This is because the market environment we have here, and I fully understand that a lot of people have their bread to live by today, is not in the environment of active competition, where technology tends to arise and replace others. It's just not like that. With the number limits and restrictions and specifically the approved currency, there's only one way we can pay a cab. It's blocking progress. Through an obstacle competition. I think it's a fact, no matter how useful it is for people who want to stay in the system just the way it is. But once again, I can't repeat that I understand the concern of a cab driver and have full respect for them. But just as I say to my friends in the music industry and software sector who hate the Pirates for, they say, to tear down the writers: we have to face technology. They will survive those who do. We must use her, receive her, embrace her, and resold her. It is the members that will survive from time to time that we need to change this system. It won't necessarily be painless, but we must. I'm gonna let it go. The 10th U.S. senator to cross into self - driving cars, which is an entire chapter all by himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this fine speech. I'd like to ask him a few questions. One turns to the shuttle team. I know why. Senator how many shuttles are registered in Iceland today, e.g. ... bytheSecurities? Now we're going to ask an old collector of state funds. It is said to be a smell of the shared economy, which is the 21st century term for tax ecosystems. We have two very close examples in this area of shared economy. One is Airbnb. There are 3,000 such units in the capital area not paying, not paying, not paying, nothing to the community for their services. That's why I want to ask him why. A senator: Does he know how many harpoons are registered to the tax authorities? I know why. A senator what kind of insurance arrangements they make? They have a cash policy that brings damage to passengers, etc. the one they're moving to? Then there's one more thing. It's been said that this is one of the important things in this relationship to negotiate in advance of price. I have to ask you what. A senator with one personal question. He can choose whether or not to respond. Is that the way it is when it is. A senator goes to a barber of hairs, makes him for a presupervise? I'd be happy to go to the Crown and tell the merchant, "Do you want to negotiate for the price of the ribeye that I'm going to grill tonight? Where are we going with this? Are we going to pick up an all - out market? Will we be just like a Morocco carpet market, with great respect for them? Are we going to move these activities there?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions because I find it important to answer them. Hv. A senator first asks how many harpoons are registered at a government fund collector's office. I have no idea. Actually, I have one idea, I think the number of people has zero. I don't think there's anybody. I wouldn't be surprised. If there were more than zero, I'd be surprised if I were to say exactly what it is. Hv. A senator asks what insurance policy they make, whether they're sizable. Again: I don't have any sources. There's no transparency in this, nothing. I just don't know anything about it. I can guess. Probably zero. If there were more, I'd be surprised. And that's the problem. Industry that cannot be permitted and remains subject to the requirements used, such as a driving group or Uber or something, is always opaque. He does not generally return taxes, if ever so. If we're going to have things on the table, have them so we can cut a driver's head in order to make bail and pay his taxes and be registered with the state funds collector, if I get a clue. A senator is correct, the operation must be legal. Therefore, we need to update our order of action to a new era. If we don't change the rule, I'm gonna ask you why. On the contrary, a senator: What does he think will change? I don't think anything will change. I think there'll still be 0's and zero loyalty. But maybe there is. A senator with some information on this. I'd like that to be a hell of a part of the discussion. Hv. A senator then asks to negotiate in advance for a price. Actually, I don't normally negotiate in advance with a cab driver. Sometimes I leave a little rest if I don't feel like switching and I have cash. But, first of all, if I would do it, I don't see quickly what would be wrong with the fact that it happened from time to time. Second, it's not what I'm talking about. It's that you can even pay in advance, so the cab driver doesn't have to worry about his not getting paid for a ride. That is how technology can help us solve problems. But I don't quite know where it is. A senator is taking the premeditation of price as if it were some horrible piece of ass. Why can't it be done if they want to? [[The president calls.]] I don't, I don't have any reason to, but what's bad about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. I can see that he is fully posted here a bill directed against the interests of one particular class without having any idea whether those who compete with this class are registered, legal, or return taxes. I think it's very interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u41	Do you?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u42	Now it's a matter of growth that I'm on the rosary below. A senator can then ask me about what he sees, but I am now asking him. But I find this very interesting information. That's why I'm going to rephrase the question and ask why. A member of Congress: How does he feel that it is possible to find out how many people are doing here in Iceland to ensure the security of those who are supplied with shuttles to make sure that they pay Caesar's things to Caesar, to make sure that they have the right to drive people? It takes more tests to drive and charge for passengers. I'm asking why. A senator: How does he picture the possibility of obtaining this information? As for negotiating a price in advance, it never stood in my mind that I thought that something was wrong with him. What I said, however, was, "Why are people going to start there? " If we take it a little further, where will we stop negotiating in advance about the price of something we want? And then there's another question. Normally, if two types of services are available and one is cheaper than the other, the quality is not at the same time. Then the question arises: Are we? A senator willing to reduce the quality of the mobilization of people in the capital area? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u43	A respectable president. I'm surprised it makes me wonder why. A senator that I don't know that people who don't have permission to work in some industry probably don't pay taxes and don't register at any place in the state. I think it's pretty obvious. I wonder what. A senator does not agree. If I don't think it's amazing, and I look forward to listening to his speech, especially if he goes on that subject. But it is by nature that illegal activity, when illegal, why such a practice is illegal, must be inexplicable. There must be a tax fraud there, there must be a lack of insurance and that sort of thing. [[Up front.]] That's why we need order. But in order for order to have a regular work, it obviously has to be legitimate. That's the whole point. If we don't change this system, it won't change anything. That's the point behind what I was saying. But I look forward to hearing a talk. That's what I'm talking about. I hope he's better at what he's talking about. Hv. One senator asks how many people can use this shuttle or how, if I understand correctly, would be able to enforce the law. I only know one way. It's by recording some kind of police state. I don't want to do that. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is not either. That's what I'm pointing at. Technology is that it can be stopped only by an overwhelming amount of police force in which this problem would only be taken at any given time. It's just like when the Internet came, people could share music with each other. The only way to stop it was to intercept connections, close pages, or control people's freedom or establish some kind of police state with no demand. That's the whole point. It's not possible. We have to change this system. That's the point behind what I'm saying. I don't offer any solutions based on the current system. I think that might explain some misunderstandings. Senator. Hv. A senator says: If the service is more expensive than others, the quality is different. I mean, I don't really agree with that, but secondly, I'd say I'm just gonna make decisions about the quality of service for myself, not for anyone else. I like the service of a cab driver in Iceland in general. [[The president calls.]] Often I don't need as much service as I get. Often I don't need these kind of fancy cars. I'm just saying it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u44	President. I appreciate this discussion, as far as it's gone. A lot of interesting reports have been made. True, I'm going to start by saying that this is, of course, a controversial proposal, and it can be interpreted as a way to a cab driver's safety, while others would view it as consumer protection and professional freedoms. Perhaps it is true that I am so thrilled to see how many people are on the platform. It shows how important this matter is for many. I just wanted to have more people on our backs because this is a conversation that we're also supposed to have with our community. But even though I am a associate in this matter, I view the most successful conclusion to be that it comes from a minister's proposal to promote liberality in this important market. There I agree with everything that came out of the question. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson here. Clearly, there are some changes that have been taking place in the community that will continue to occur. In that light, I would say that this suggestion is not to the head of cab drivers but to the head of a shuttle. The black market, gray, or what you will call it, must be bonded. The only way that has worked through history to put a bond on a black market, which exists through a new technology, is to change the system so that everyone can accept it and everyone has a chance to participate on the basis of that new technology. At the same time, the proposal that comes from a ministerial servant should fix things that will make cab vehicles more costly than is needed, thereby improving the situation of a cab driver. Then there are aspects of the future that we need to examine. But I originally intended to start by discussing only this proposal in relation to the two economic terms, a artificial map, which I've written a lot about in the past, but also the loss of all- which is an extremely difficult concept. But I think I'll wait with it. I see that these economic ideas are not needed in this discussion at this point. There is a much greater need to consider this in the context of the technology that will begin to develop. Perhaps it is true that I also say that while I often talk about cabs in what follows, it is merely because here we are talking about a problem facing a taxi. The description of this situation applies equally to other economic systems, where laws and rules have created a certain artificial deficiency and where technological advances undermine existing systems. I'm going to do what I can to not draw myself out in a discussion about the fishing system because there is good reason to discuss it in this same context. But now, in recent years, fake intelligence's spears have been directed toward a taxi driver. There are dozens of companies in those words trying to invent new ways of making all the cab drivers of the world out of work. And not just all cab drivers, but all the pros in the world. It can be expected that there will be only a few years before there will be a completely self - exhausted taxi. True, it will not be so good for them to clean themselves or to be able to perform services at the same stage as cab drivers do today, but it will still be. The present system may, even probably, prevent the possibility of offering such self - discipline at a taxi market in Iceland today, but this discussion will take place. When it is, it will come with relatively great power. Whether we like it or not, we need to realize that this revolution is taking place. There is good reason to try to work organizedly to prepare us for that future. And as has always been the case with all technological advances, blackest projections on the worst possible outcome have been coalesce. Likely, self - efficient cabs are not about to dispose of all cab drivers, any more than the presence of automobiles rid us of all horses. But it is likely that they will lose out quickly. We need to try to work at this in a calm and orderly manner. Some may feel that this suggestion follows an evil attitude toward cab drivers, that their security is being weighed. But I want to make it as clear as I can that no such evil is behind my support in this matter. I don't believe in any of the transporters involved. On the contrary, I view this as an important step toward slowing down the class and the community all over when robots take over. Because that's what they're gonna do. In general, we need to be more aware of what that means when self - efficiency results in a massive unemployment. On one occasion, horses did many jobs in the community, but when automobiles were found, no one said: Don't worry, new jobs will always be available for horses. Because it is completely absurd to say such things. But when people say, " Don't worry, new jobs will always be available to humans,'they all feel perfectly self - righteous. I don't understand. At this point, it is obvious: The ability of automation is limited, and it is expected to occur. Thus, I would like to give a fine witness to a letter written by the plagiarism in Nottingham to salesmen in that city in 1811, which says, by permission of the president, in my translation: In view of the high demand for life, a man who has full - time work with all his hard work and a woman with all her care and practicality could carry on a family in order to make any comfort. If that is the case, and if so, how devastating the situation must be for those who have only limited jobs in low wages and worse: What is the condition of those who have no work, of whom at that time, is the case by an extraordinary number? The letter continues, and further communication will be made. Now I'm losing time so I'm not going through it all. But after communication with these groups, it is concluded that if automatic knitting machines must appear, they should remain under professional management in that area. It wasn't. This led to the conclusion that, of course, this tool became a low - paying job force owned by people who made a fortune in it. It seems in many ways the same as what's happening with Uber in the world today. Automaticization serves the interests of relatively few people. The problem in 1811 and the problems in 2018 are the same. Another change in employment security is threatened by changes that everyone in the community should benefit from. I suggest that we do the opposite with what we did then. We should ensure that those who work in this category the security possible, prepare for the future, but above all, let us try to ensure that the development of the community through which it will become will be at best. To this end, the Piratars have suggested some suggestions that try to aim to reduce the quality of people, such as the number of citizens' wages and other factors. But it's nothing less than a industrial revolution we're seeing. It's even considerably bigger. I'm terribly sorry that some professions have this trend faster than others. Of course, as a body of elders, we are expected to do what we can to stop negative influences caused by those who are disloyal and are not paying taxes and, as a result, are able to receive a lower price for worse service. But it is getting closer with a certain understanding of what the future holds. Because if we do nothing, there is an increased risk that the automation will lead to the most exaggerated negative result of this suggestion, whether here we agree with it or not. [[The president calls.]] It's better that we do this now than get into this later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u45	A respectable president. We have now listened to many learning talks about the future and the thought of these matters. Of course, it is remarkable to witness the one more journey that people are giving a controversial discussion about something that, in fact, are very drastic suggestions that they themselves make. But when people come to visit here on the balcony, they're running in all directions, trying to soften something, that should be discussed, and so on. There are many factors that have been said to help us look ahead to great changes. Thus, the fourth industrial revolution will likely have more social influence than even the first and even if it was combined. We all know that many of the work we do today in different social groups will be different when it comes to choosing future jobs with our children and grandchildren. That might be the point. Like others, we will be able to look at the changes in technology that are becoming in society and see how we can adapt changes in this environment in harmony with them, just as we must look to it in so many other ways. It was on the very foundation that I then established the current transport minister for the current work. I felt that it was appropriate, as is appropriate for all such discussions, to order a group in a way that, in a way, most of the views would be involved in the discussion, including the participation of officers from the cab firm, the cab driver's office, and the participation of others who might want to go fast and safely to work. Some have wanted to do so even without carefully preparing the soil. This is now the basis for making informed and well - thought - out decisions when making such changes. It may even need to be. taking into account those who have had this privilege of service for years, may not be able to turn to other jobs, have been investing even in their employment opportunities and in their own professional activities, as well as to take into account consumer views and changes in society, how we can make the most of this service. I felt that the discussion, a respectable president, was taken by this office. paritaprevir Hanna Friðriksson last week is timely. I felt that the discussion was fully timely, and just as a result, the minister of the seminaries answered these matters, how the wind's work would be carried out, and when it would be expected on the basis of it. Similarly, I feel that the forwarding of this conference is--I'm not gonna say something popular, but completely untimely. Because I believe that the suggestions that come out there and are pretty radical - we've heard of it. Senators who are involved in the case are running a little from them and preaching a talk and a job - all of them need to be examined. But that's exactly what's going on. That's exactly what's going on. Hence, the discussion was very much needed and normal. That's how we're supposed to work at the council. On the other hand, the suggestion is completely premature. There may be too much of such activity in this environment in the high Council, a respectable president, that men are trying to join a knight in various matters. I don't mean to break myself into it. During the 11 years I have been attending a council, I have had a full share in it. But this is part of what we have been talking about in an effort to increase the respect of the council, that is, to work more systematically. But I'm celebrating the discussion. I eagerly wait for what comes out of that work. I'm confident that the council will cooperate with the Supreme Court. A minister at that time will take these matters into consideration and will do so with complete consideration to all involved persons, whether they have invested in this sector, create a foundation for even decades, families that all expect such activities not to be disturbed in a single moment, at the same time as consumers' attitudes, the attitudes of a new technology that will inevitably color all our society in the coming years and decades. And the work we know so well today, many of us, who are only older, will have almost disappeared from the scene. This will be even more radical in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u46	A respectable president. I'm not going to procrastinate. Instead, I'm going to give him some tip in view of the fact that here he said that members of the council who spoke earlier were somehow leaving this case because there were cab drivers on the roof. That certainly is nonsense, but in much harmony with the debate. A senator in general. I will read from my talk that I gave in special discussions on the same subject on February 19 of the past. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ I look forward to seeing what comes from the group of people mentioned here. It is true what was mentioned earlier. It is a delicate matter. It is only to be expected that when we talk here, a lot of people live, naturally it is to the people of the heart when all their breads depend on a routine that's going to get out of the way and it's going to make more of it. We should also try to find ways to soften the landing for those groups who rely on traditional technology and the system that has developed in the light of that technology. This is some of the things I said myself in this pit when there was no one on my coats to know. Then, by permission of the president, the final words were: ▪ Finally, I repeat that it is important that we show understanding to this group and try to do regulations that fit his interests in the context of modern technology. That's why I'm sorry. A senator says that there is some popular contest or speakers fleeing the scene. This is just in line with what I've always said about this party and me knowing in my company. I don't like what you're doing. A senator tries to strike himself as a knight here and intends to be the real man who sees it when the others pretend to be in some popular contest. It's just an honest opinion. I think something's really interesting. A senator would not think that would be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u47	A respectable president. It all speaks for itself. [[Foreground on: No.]] Hv. While a member of the council is discussing this approach, he is still a cohesive to a motion that has been proposed without the work being done, without the fact that this case has been identified. Without being preconceived from this job, there's no reason. A senator with a suggestion that is essentially radical at least to the modern - day group of people who feel threatened. Without taking care of a taxi driver's point of view without having the case closed his career in this field, he spoke here in a very different direction than the suggestion itself. That's exactly what I meant. There's talk here by the cross.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u48	A respectable president. I don't think this message of surrender would be heard in the words of what happened. A senator if he was at the head trying to solve the problem we face. Yeah, I'm an importer on this case because I think it's obvious that this is the way we have to go. There is no contradiction between this and trying to soften the landing for those who experience that change, there is no contradiction. In case of a moment. A senator is really interested in trying to solve this problem so that as many people may not remember it, he would not be trying to make it up to others to be on the run. That was mostly what I wanted to say. But then I also reiterate that I wasn't asking why. A senator, I was telling him that what he said was wrong, that the senators were fleeing the case. This is only in harmony with what we've expressed here before. Yes, we are involved in this case because we agree with the situation and want to soften the landing for a taxi driver. There is no contradiction. And again: I'm not asking, I'm pointing this out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u49	Mr. President. Suggested what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson is a radical change in the working environment of an entire country class, the bus driver. We see that people care. We can see that on the number of people on this planet. It's perfectly normal that people who work in this article are concerned about this proposal, because as I said it will cause them to completely change their working environment. It's a deep - seated class with about 600 people at work, and if we look at the families behind it, we can say that there are as many as 3,000 people who have jobs or live bread from this profession. The service of a taxi driver is good in Iceland. Service stage is high. They have good reputation, and they render fine service in various ways, such as. To the government, not to mention the disabled. There are special cars in automobile cars that serve especially disabled persons, so the service stage is very good. This article discussed the need to increase the respect of the council. I have already spoken out of this discourse more than once. And when such a drastic proposal is presented, it is reasonable to consult with those who have a interest in it. I know that a cab driver's union has offered to meet with what. An evangelizer, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, on this proposal and explains his point of view. Their wishes in this regard have not been answered. You should point that out. I don't think so. I think it's an example that people don't have enough respect for this institution when such important matters are not discussed with those involved. It is also true to note that taxi drivers do not object to changes. Technology changes and innovations in technology have been discussed here, and they do not object to changes. I know that on the Committee of Ministers, which is now reviewing this case the cab drivers have not ruled out that there will be a change in the number of permits. Let us not forget that this is a legitimate profession. There is a reason, because if all is given free, it is natural that the income of those in this class will be substantially reduced, and of course people are worried about it. I would also like to agree with that as well. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said earlier that he felt that the proposal was premature. I want to agree with them, and I agree with them because this job is being done at the Ministry. We're supposed to see what's coming of it. Fortunately, there's consultations. I expect that's where both parties are going to make peace from the table. Here we also discussed the need to reduce prices, and there would be a greater price in this article. Then we must look to the high cost of investing in this article. Only insurance insurance a year for a cab is about that. 500 you. K. These cars are driving about 100 yards. km per year, which means they fall very fast at prices, etc., so it's expensive to have the equipment you need to do this job. I'm not sure the price could be lowered by letting Uber into this market. Let's not forget that Uber, i.e. The company back there takes 25% into their pocket for each trip. I'd also like to ask why. A vehicle to see if she thinks there is a great lack of commercial cabs. I don't completely agree with that. I know that taxi drivers waiting for e.g. At Leifs station, you will have to wait up to two, three hours after getting a passenger to drive to Reykjavík or Chefvíkur, anywhere. So over their heads, I don't think I'm missing. There may be times of stress here in Reykjavík, but in general, I don't think there's a lack on this market. It is also vital and vital that we look to the experiences of other nations in this discussion. Then we have an example from Sweden. In 1986 Sweden opened up completely for its market and allowed everyone to enter the article. Sadly, the experience of this became very bad. It is interesting to consult online news related to cab drivers in Sweden. It warns against taking taxis in Sweden after it was given so free. There's a bad reputation for cab drivers. Here's one story, for example. which I saw in 2012, which says: "A passenger run off a cab driver. From 2014: The West is driving cab cars A cab driver helps with a prostitution trade. A cab driver arrested for man-salt. This is a report from Sweden that opened everything up. In this regard, it is very important to keep to the owned vehicle driver's license, as this will result in an important extension and also the discontinuation of important information supplies, e.g. To the police, for example, if there is a problem between a driver and a customer. If the issue is dropped - and it is natural to open up to this market and let the Uber into the market, then the obligation to stop is put down at the same time - an important knowledge and security will be lost. So I want to ask you why. A senator's advantage is to cancel the restrictions. How does it benefit passengers? Is it good for drivers? How does this benefit the entire class? Because I can see why. A senator is here and wasn't there earlier. I'm gonna repeat my question from earlier on, if she thinks there's a great lack of a cab market over her head. I told you before I didn't have that information. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned that cab drivers were strict people. I certainly agree. That's a good point. He commended them for their service, yet he wants to open the market. I could tell him that his main reason was that they needed motivation to get taxi cars or cab drivers to start using technology more. Maybe I misunderstood. A senator, but at least he said it wasn't an option to see where the taxi was, etc. I heard it was his point in this discussion. Then I'll remind you again that this is a class of 600 men. We must be very careful about opening this market. Cabby drivers are ready to change. Let us wait for the conclusion of this committee to see if it is not at peace that everyone can enjoy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u50	Mr. President. Now I want to know a little bit about how to use it. A senator's word is radical because it is a word people usually use when they want to promote the discussion a little. I'm asking why. A senator because he is involved in a case about removing the house force from the calculations and inflation. Is that not also an overwhelming suggestion? I happen to agree with the proposal, completely agree with it even, but it is still considerably more radical than this suggestion, in which it has a revolutionary effect on our entire economy. I'd also like to say what to say. A member of Sweden that I have seen no evidence to suggest that this is more vivid to a Swedish taxi market than to a Swedish community. I completely agree, we should be careful with all this discussion, but let's do it on the basis of the facts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u51	Mr. President. I think everybody agrees that this is a radical proposal. You can't explain it different than that, open up for total freedom into this market. This makes it possible for present - day people to see a natural threat that their income could be reduced by half in a short period of time. That must be a radical suggestion. I don't think I need to explain any further. In the cases I took from Sweden, the results can be seen that anyone can enter this article. It has been observed that in Sweden there was no surveillance of those who entered the article. Sadly, there are discrepancies in many parts of the world, and they evidently get into this profession very easily. [[The president calls.]] So we must look to these examples as well as to the experiences of other nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u52	Mr. President. While it is true that misgivings do a variety of jobs, and we have already received information about these past few weeks, I think that it is a problem that we will solve most of the order that covers all those who engage in certain activities. Hv. A senator asked if a cab market was missing. I agree with him that there doesn't seem to be a shortage there, but there's some kind of market failure. I'm asking why. A senator: Does he believe that the existence of the shuttle group is a sign that everything that is perfectly struck at a taxi market and that no change is needed? I would love to have rules include those in the group of harpoons. I think it's a very careful proposal that turns in my mind primarily about consumer protection because it's a failure, it's a market failure, which is actually not related to the number of cabs on the market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u53	Mr. President. It is quite possible that the reason for this group of harpographers is that there is an opportunity to get some money for much less cost than that of doing it legally and normally. But as I mentioned, the cost of being a taxi driver is considerable. It is also a question of whether this is not the right way to agree to reduce the cost of cab cars. We have options. We could, for example. Allowed through the routine that cab drivers get to take e.g. colored oil on the cars, which is much less expensive. It would be part of reducing the cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u54	A respectable president. I found it interesting when it came to things. A senator went on to develop in Sweden that in 1986 all of this had been granted free, then in 2014, and just a little earlier, cab drivers would have stabbed people and performed man-sales and so on. Hv. A senator mentioned it, and after that, there was a particular issue. I'd like to hear a little more about what kind of town you're in. A senator believes that if cab drivers don't have to have restrictions then all of a sudden they'll be criminal or something. Or what causes it? I don't fully understand how greater freedom in this situation leads to crime. That's what I don't understand. Especially if we take care of the shuttle group. Should we not, then, see that the drivers there were stabbing people and committing man - made halls and what? If so, would it not be the matter to get it on the surface of some rule book in which all can participate?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u55	Mr. President. It begins with a recent intervention in this class, the taxi class, so those who are interested in going into that class usually first enter a peninsula. Then they're at a specific work station, i.e. will quickly reveal the identity of the individual in this article. This has happened more than once, and more than twice, has been shown that they were not the ideal candidate for this job. This includes the means by which the station operates. That is why the work station is important because a group of people working in this article can be held. But if they have freedom and don't have to be in any department, then no one's watching what they do, how they behave, etc. [[The president calls.]] In this light, the work centres are very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u56	A respectable president. Now it is possible to solve this problem quite easily with modern technology, e.g. is done with Uber. I expect it to be done with elevators. I think the technology has something to say about the shuttle group, even though I have to admit some ignorance of it, because I've just never been in that group and I don't know how it works. Part of the problem I want to solve. As Uber works, and I assume that any new company that takes up a cab drive after we'd cancel the issue would always use technology to evaluate the drivers somehow, as the Uber works. That's why drivers are honest in Uber, otherwise it'd be bad for their reputation. The reputation is a centrally gathered somehow, in the same way that the issue is being held today, just in an indirect way. So I don't see the need to have a halt, because I think it just comes out of obvious market causes, because people don't want to be stuck in a taxi and even if we had to stop, we should, at least, break it up so much that modern technology could be used instead of having this old arrangement that doesn't take into account of it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u57	Mr. President. I know how Uber works. You're right. A senator noted that it is possible to mark the type of service, etc. But let us see that it is only very important in this regard that you keep your arms around you. We can see this in that when drivers under Uber, yes, people can mark, etc., but what guarantee does it have that they are exactly right? We're talking about people renting houses, Airbnb, etc., how they stayed and people see these fancy pictures and all of them, but then when they get there, it doesn't work. There is not 100% guarantee that this means that you can mark it in such a way that it works out completely. Once we have the base, the team will gather and the personnel know exactly who are working there. In this respect, the work centre is much more suitable and safer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker, unfortunately, had to push me away, but he wondered that some words in his speech had been directed to me and that I would go wrong with my trust that I would be corrected. First, what I want to do at this short time is to go. A senator said that he had not been consulted, that would be strange. So, in view of what I know about them, it's not a custom for this sort of pact. A discussion takes place when the matter arises. Of course, the list is open, and humans can send in envelopes on their own, but those of us on committees also make a list of stakeholders. So no one has to worry that those people who have a interest in this case, I'm not talking about professional interests, they won't be asked to give reviews on this case, they'll reach that level. Then about the fact that I had refused to talk to someone who had contacted me. Then I have to explain that when the matter comes up during last week, the flu gets closer to me the next day, and I was sick at home for the week. I got quite a lot of Facebook messages and e-mails, and I thought I answered them all, but something may have happened. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is nothing more to do than to pray with respect. I'm back to work, and I'm sitting here on the pets that are interested in talking to me, and I have my e - mail and phone open. [[The president calls.]] I just reiterate that if something happened in this situation, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson for explaining why the stakeholders could not speak to her, that is a legitimate explanation. She may not have answered it well enough earlier, I thought, about her duty and her advantage, would it be to put her down, would it be good for passengers, car drivers, or for the rest of her class? If she could answer if she felt that there is a great lack of cabs in the market above her head, she would be able to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u60	Mr. President. There's now a turn of things here a little on the head, where the person to be for answers is the person who's beginning to ask. That's just the best part. I come up here to make comments or to talk about the exact issues. A senator specified. First of all, if my opinion of cab drivers is missing. I can't say if there's any day's lack of exactly the cab service we're offering today, but as I thought I've made it clear in my speech, I'm interested in opening this up so that there'll be an increasing variety in that service, and then it can lead to a certain new balance of availability and demand for this type of public transportation. Now, I have to say, the lively business that takes place in this Facebook group of shuttles that I sometimes go in to, just to figure out what's going on there, doesn't mean that it's just an offer like that. A senator came in earlier from some individuals who want to gain extra money by offering this service there but also from those who want to take advantage of that service. [[The president calls.]] Then that thing with the brakes. It is simply one of the things that have made it very clear that the work group is looking at because it will be changed. [[The president calls.]] That is the nature of the case, therefore, we are speaking on the other hand about this proposal and the group of work that came up in conversation last week, it's starting to come together. [[The president calls.]] It seems quite unmistakably that this will be a suggestion and we will be made to change the arrangement because it violates European Economic Regulations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u61	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentioned that taxi drivers are a law-defeated profession, which makes it normal to limit access to that class. Because I think it's a little bit about professional freedom. A senator. A lawyer is a law-defenced job title. Counsel runs law firms and performs a very important service. Would it not be reasonable to say that it would be wise to limit access to opening law firms or that physical therapists can open rooms or dentists? What specific evidence is there to limit access to those who have a driver's license and are fully capable of driving passengers? [[The president calls.]] Why do we need to limit access to this category of people from all walks of life? I can't figure it out. Well, maybe. A senator explained this to me only?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u62	Mr. President. I don't think it's the same as an example of lawyers and cab drivers. The lawyers have a field of work that pays, e.g. much more money than a cab driver can earn, with much less cost, and with the ability to obtain employment in many parts of the country. A taxi driver's Marketing Area is tied to a specific area. The cost of entering the article is high, etc., so I can't quite agree with it. A senator said that these two groups can be compared. It is clear that if this work opens up so that everyone can enter it, the income will decline substantially and therefore work safely. I don't think it's quite like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u63	Thank you. A senator resists. I now spoke of lawyers and others. I'll name other professions. I'll tell you the hairdresser, I'll tell you the beautyes. All these classes, with a lot of cutthroats. You've learned to do this trade. No one's ever thought of it so I know to limit the access of these fine people to start my own business. So I still haven't had evidence that something special about this class. This reminds me a little of old values vision and thinking that the cells and men keep their people tight. This reminds me of the value of industrialists in the old days we have long since disappeared. I can honestly see no evidence that this profession, which is certainly important, should enjoy this special protection. In addition, there is nothing to prevent cab drivers who want to have stopped has stopped and offer a service that meets all the conditions discussed. [[The president calls.]] They are then much better cab drivers according to what has been said here, and safer than the rest. [[The president calls.]] Then they have marketers, and all go með Steindor. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u64	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u65	Mr. President. I told you before, cab drivers are ready to look at this. They're ready for a change. I have the authority that they are ready to agree that there will be an increase in this article. So why don't we just celebrate? It's quite clear, and I think that what. A senator must understand that in the present environment, a cab driver needs to wait for two, three hours after receiving e.g. A passenger at Leifs Station. If there is an increase of 100% in this article, the waiting period will increase and the income will decrease. We have multiple restrictions, for example. Dental education as well as fishing. No one gets in there. This is not the only class that attempts to have a system on how many people are in the class because people want to survive. It's simple. Some 600 people have been working hard at this, families. [[The president calls.]] This suggests that their survival is being weighed down. It's just simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u66	Mr. President. This has emphasized that we should welcome the future with open arms. Like we're not usually doing it here. I think it's more of a matter of controlling how we do it. Keep both feet on the ground. I'm on the environment and transportation committee. We covered there at the 146th Parliament on a very large case of passengers and cargo. Then came the representatives of the people here, and many more, and there was a huge talk about passenger transport in Iceland. I guess it's shaped my view of being a little member of the Committee back then. I'd like to start by reminding people that it's not about any shared economy. I'm telling you, there's a whole hell of a system we're not talking about here. The shared economy is e.g. when you join or exchange cars or anything like that. What we're talking about here is generally a back company if we can put it that way, it's a contractor's job. It's a private car made into a taxi. It's a contractor who does the driving. This does not have anything to do with shared economy. We often talk about responsible people moving in either air, land, or sea. You can ask yourself: " Where are the boundaries if you want to use this method, allowing private employees, trespassing, etc., to engage in some kind of transport? We call it freedom of business. I take, for example, eight or twelve - man buses, cab drivers, many of whom have cars, perhaps not twelve, but eight men. What do you say we squeeze this into small buses that drive with tourists? Why not? They've named these entertainment boats, a shuttle between the country and the island. Where's the line? It's just cabs? I think that when people plan to mirror this conventional market operation into public transport, it's quite another thing upstairs. The simple ones, I'm telling you, they don't count. Of course, this is why if we look at transportation: Where is the greatest danger in transport in Iceland? Where are most of the accidents? Even death? Yeah, it's in traffic, of course. It's not because it in itself is in itself an inextricably complex, it's not as complicated as flying a car, it's just a lot of people. There's a lot of events, if we can put it that way, every day that controls it primarily. That's why we're talking about responsible people moving. That's the point, of course. Not the future, but the responsible migration. We ask questions such as the safety of passengers, quick help, insurance, real insurance, not just cash insurance on a car, but the insurance of the passengers who are there and all that goes with it. We also ask about the drivers'skills at the wheel. What about a rating? Do they need a test of their own? Do they need more tests? Once we're so far off on this, we'll know that if this is given free like this, it'll be a business like Uber and an elevator and more that will take care of the lung of these transports. And what are the requirements of these enterprises, e.g. to drivers? I've talked to drivers, used Uber in Paris, also used taxis in Paris. I'm quite comfortable in French, so I can talk to the cab drivers. There are no requirements. It's a nice outfit. Pure proof of good conduct. There is also a question about the terms and rights of these people. What are the rights of a contractor taking on a driving like this? Or elected? I looked up a Web site with examples, I think from Chicago, at least it was in the United States. This was an average journey of 30 minutes. Uber collects $17 there. It goes $1.65 to something called passenger fees, then it comes to 25%, and then we're left with about $11.00. Then there were $2 in fuel and a variety of expenses, as that is, of course, the driver who pays for it. Then he was left standing with nine dollars. It is about half that falls to the driver. We also ask about the demands of the car itself. Of course, it is viewed as cars, but are there other special requirements for it? Can he be big or small? And then we ask about insurance, as I mentioned earlier. Whatever the case, we need to ask ourselves, " Am I going to set very rigid rules and requirements for such witnessing outside the workplace, or how I'm going to say it? ' If so, do we go so close to the pros that they become unnecessary or vice versa? Is it necessary, if we make all these demands, to expect these people to drive this way? There is a different experience with these companies. Some cases have been taken from Sweden. I don't know what it is, but I know, for example. that in the city of Brno, in the former Czechoslovakia, this was simply forbidden. I haven't studied the evidence yet. They tried to disappear to their previous state in Prague, but they haven't been able to do it yet. I'd be interested in knowing if men were learning what is going on there. The important thing is: We are looking to the future and surely accept it. The technical development involved here, whether it's a smart cell phone or something else, does not control evolution. We are the people who direct evolution by making decisions here at a council or elsewhere. That's what this is about. We are not mechanical slaves to technology. We all love technology. We know that ourselves. When it comes to freedom, I pointed out in the special discussions that people are being watched at Uber. You know the name of the passenger, you know where he lives at home, you know where he goes, and when. That is not so much in the spirit of the freedom that we are often talking about. I'm not talking about professional freedom, just freedom and personal protection. This may not be desirable. Yes, there is another possibility, they can take a regular cab, but these are the things that must be included in the discussion on these matters. Then what I thought was the most strange thing, when it was being connected to public transportation. Public transportation is not about me driving into some kind of cab for 4,000 bucks. Instead of 5,000 ways. Of course, public transportation is about organized transport for a small coin, 500 bucks. 1000 k. Same way. It's ridiculous to discuss this at the same time as public transportation. I think it's quite another ella. We simply disagree as to whether a passenger should be a job route, that is a professional group or class, and that the main issue is professional skills that are about security, assistance to passengers, what we want, often in very difficult situations. I could imagine experienced drivers driving people under difficult circumstances, even ashore. We know that cab drivers drive a lot of tourists to the country, even in the winter. I can't see the responsibility in thinking that it's just free. In fact, I feel very far satisfied when talking about passenger transport and security issues from market laws or market ideas, as I mentioned in the special discussions, as if people are dealing with candy traffic. It's a lot bigger and more complicated than that. I can see that there is a need for reforms or reforms in a taxi car cars in Iceland, indeed. There used to be other cab stops here. I don't remember if there was any competition at a price, maybe it was. I could see more cab stops here. There are also other groups of cars, three categories for price, e.g. A variety of technological advances can also be used, using a taxi with some apps on the phone. We are not necessarily looking to 30 now, we are looking for a three - year - old or something like that. [[The president calls.]] There may be an empty taxi somewhere, but this type is not necessarily an intermediate. Of course, we'll be discussing this case in the highest degree. Environmental and transport committees of great importance and quality of action. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u67	A respectable president. Let's talk about it. A senator now does not reflect much faith in competition or freedom, I think. Surprises may not be necessary. His party has not discussed such matters in general. What I wonder, though, when I listen to them worry as they are. A senator has a range of requirements or conditions set up for those who work in this sector - I feel that on one hand the need to direct a job with a mass limit to it and to control it with demands, e.g. has the advantage of a driver or any other request we would like to make with those who work in it. We make every day a list of qualifications for staff in the various articles on education, formal permission, quick help, whatever it is that we think of as a lawgiver or a rule. I think that in this context, when we talk specifically about transportation, it's easier for me to start an airline than to get permission to drive a cab. Just a little easier. I think there's quite a bit more freedom there, and I have no doubt that flying is probably the most sensitive transportation we have and the transport we have to make. That's why I'm interested in knowing: We'll never think of placing some restrictions on the number of airlines that are allowed to fly to or from the country or in the way they want to conduct their activities. We have freedom there, and we are blessed with a competitive, free spirit. That's why I'm asking, "Why do I need the number limit of cabs to meet the security criteria for those who are? " A senator is concerned, but not, for example. When it comes to flying or the masses of all the other business we have free of? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u68	Mr. President. Yeah. Multiple limitation and flight, I don't want to equal flights and mass limits for airlines that we haven't even set. There's free competition. It may well be that we need to set a number of flight restrictions in Iceland, but there's another arm. We're talking about responsible passenger transport in the country. The time will come when things will be like security. What, then, is a better setting than having it as a business, clean, and settled? If we have a job to cover, let's say we have a cab permit in Reykjavík, now or whatever it is, we can't keep it out as a job if we have it as a free flow. We simply choose for safety because this is traffic and traffic is dangerous, and there are a number of types of requirements that can be set for the service of paying 5,000 bucks. For taxi cars, we'll choose a way to find out, and there may well be an increase in the number of cab breaks. I don't know that anyone's against it in itself, but we choose the way that there is a limited resource available to humans as a full-time job. I don't see anything wrong with it because of the nature of the job. Not because there are multiple requirements, in itself, but because of the nature of these sectors and those jobs. We can then talk about pilots and giving free hands there. There's another ella.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u69	A respectable president. About the last words. This is not to be understood by a senator, so I am suggesting that unskilled fly planes. Rather, I simply have the freedom to form and run a airline. Of course, it is until qualified people reach out for the transport arrangements themselves. And there is more. I'm also perfectly allowed to set up a group travel company and take a passenger across the country, but I can certainly meet certain competitive conditions when it comes, for example. Medicinal product no longer authorised But I'm totally free to run my own group travel company where I'll market myself with tourists in this country. But once again, of course, I have to have a job driver working for me. It's in the eye. Of course, I have to meet the demands for the job. I think it's very important to tell the difference. If we are opening up a cab driver's competition, we are not reducing in any way the professional requirements we make to the driver. Of course, they have to meet the exact requirements we make for a car driver today. I would never think of developing some sort of dual market that would be the free market and then the current cab market. Whether it is Uber or a person who chooses to run his own cab or one who works at a station. Of course, they should meet the same qualifications in order to do that work. That's why I think it's important to separate. And I still don't understand why. A senator believes that we cannot meet the safety issues, the appropriate conditions, and the other requirements we would like to impose on the job without limiting the number of people working in it. It is just exactly the same as it is in a number of very delicate jobs, often and times, giving us the freedom to start the business, but of course, we have high standards for those who work in it from their nature and content. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u70	Mr. President. Now the answers are all mixed up. Hv. A senator says that he can start a bus company, but of course he needs a job driver to drive the bus. That's what we want, first of all, about cabs. But since then, for limited territories, let's say to Reykjavík, we have had the practice of publishing certain licenses because they are commercial drivers. It's that way with the freedom truckers, the Uber truckers, they're not professional drivers and they're not doing this full-time job. These are side effects in all cases. I can't see that we're supposed to be looking at people like a regular cab driver because why are we in charge of these matters? Then we're just making a cab driver. At that time, they can be as many people as they need to be. It is quite crystal clear that the demands we have made for the drivers we speak here in other countries are far from being anything like the requirements we make for cab drivers. There are no demands for the Uber or elevator trucker other than the traditionals, for having a car test, for being neat, for the car to look nice. Then you get a score for every drive. That's right. If they do something wrong, they'll get the point. But there are no other requirements for that. Coming up here and now saying that we're gonna make very strict demands on these people, that's something new for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u71	President. I appreciate your interesting input. A senator who went out into a wide field. I'm going in answer to me to cut in the same knee as my colleague, okay? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, and be on that side as it is. A senator concluded his point. If I understand why. A member of the council rightly believes that this suggestion is being suggested to replace study and testing requirements and insurance requirements. If he felt alone that it would be the conclusion, if I've understood him correctly, I just want to say that there's something new. Then I also misunderstand myself, for that is not what the synopsis proposes. One of the things we say there is that there are fewer expenses. There are laws on cabs and regulations. What is stated in this report as an example of the decrease in the number of points may be just not those. It is simply not talking about reducing your education requirements or paying less insurance requirements and letting go of the test. We can do that. That'd be interesting, then. I'm on the same committee as what. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee. If that's what you want, because he doesn't like that other than the existing cab drivers meet these requirements, then we'll take that discussion. I'm just not there. I'd like to hear from what you're talking about. A senator why it has become the end point, and he doesn't think it's possible, because we don't agree with it. Besides, I'd like to say that food is bad. The senator says that cab drivers are not public transportation and that it is absurd to discuss them on these lines, I would like to point out that cab drivers are defined as a public transportation in the Regulation. We are not exactly on the same path in this discussion. But I want to pray. A senator will answer why he chooses to discuss this matter in these terms. Is that to kill things? [[The president calls.]] Or what is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u72	Mr. President. In my ignorance, I thought cab drivers had more tests. [[Up front.]] Isn't that right? [[Up front.]] Yeah. Is it true, then, that these prospective cab drivers have more tests? Will they be obliged to attend a first - term course? Will they be obliged to have all the same skills as cab drivers? Is it only a matter of removing the number limit? I've never understood these changes in a cab market when people say that in Uber's breath and elevator, which, yes, is done, it's all become the same thing as we do to a regular cab driver. As far as public transportation is concerned, it may well be that I missed driving a cab is part of a public transportation. But I'm talking about real improvements and improvements in public transportation, which are not about increasing the number of cars for a little less price than a cab, but about real public transportation, which is organized and broad and costing the public relatively little money. That's how I've looked at public transportation and taken it as an introduction. I can't see we're here talking on a cross. If so, I just haven't understood this case correctly, that it's really supposed to be all the same requirements for these drivers and regular cab drivers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u73	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator will certainly agree that freedom in a cab market will not correct the transport problems we face. I'm counting on it. A senator who is a governor will be with us in knocking the highest force. A secretary of transportation to establish a first transport program so that we can start talking about real improvements there. But we're talking about freedom in a cab market here. Then I'd like to use the second part of my answers to ask, because of that. A senator spoke on the one hand about the obligation to work, as did others. Councilmen have made, on the other hand, the number of restrictions. The highest severity has been observed. A secretary of transportation that the task force has already provided preconceived suggestions that this need to be adjusted on both issues. Then I'd like to ask. A senator: If these changes are to be made, they are to be made alone. A senator, then, satisfied? No work posts, no staff restrictions?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u74	Mr. President. I have no idea what goes on in the group that's working on these changes. Asked: If the changes in the service group are more or less compatible with this bill, will I be in or opposed? Well, I guess I'll be against you. I don't know. I'm afraid to promise, but I can't see that this question really matters right now. Well, we're discussing this bill, not what may come out of this group. Change? I'm not against them for any princely reasons. At the end of my talk earlier, I gave only a few highlights that I could see some improvements in the cab system. Let's just make these adjustments come out. Maybe we'll be what. A senator may agree on the changes and disagree. But I think this question is that I cannot answer it accurately.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u75	The President's gonna tell you why. A senator says it's a conquistador proposal, not a bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u76	Mr. President. I have found it very interesting to listen to the discussion on this matter here at the Hall of Congress. Basically, I think it's very familiar. In short, in the face of custody, it is traditionally about freedom. We are talking about simply a free competitive environment in a cab service, which we rely on in most other areas of employment in our society today, and in fact, it is necessary to try to ensure whether it is best quality or best worth it. Of course, there may be differences. We can seek a lower price or better product at a higher price - our choice as consumers. It is the competition, in turn, to find out what the demand for it is. The discussion seems to be the same when it comes to opening or relaxing the competition on individual markets. The competition's fine, but it just doesn't apply here. A competition is not appropriate in agricultural products, it is impossible, and that does not result in the success of ensuring consumers at the most suitable cost. It doesn't seem like a competition is a cab driver, where it's totally out of control. If the market is so far off, there are many dangers to open up to free competition. More markets include, but in general, we have been blessed with the years and decades of efforts to slowly break free from these competitive, competitive people with whom we have been running toward a business goal. In fact, I have to admit that I miss a little bit that there's a nice company in a government who likes to boast about freedom, but there isn't one of his partners in this fine assembly. But blessedly, at least two members of the council have made themselves available for discussions on the subject. I look forward to hearing their talks because I felt at least in my speech. paritaprevir Although Jón Gunnarsson was more freedom - oriented than many others here have spoken, he is careful about the benefits of freedom on that market. I think it's good to start with one thing. Let's make a distinction between the competitive, competitive barriers, where we as lawmakers are trying to control an overall market supply, e.g. with the limit to the number of permission, and then with the quality requirements we make for the ministry granted. The lawgiver always has full authority and authority to place the regular work he wants them to do. This is what we do most of our business. We'll make them rules. We set the requirements that we would like to make with those who work in them, to those who start the companies. I thought it was interesting to listen to what happened. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson and really his attitude toward professional success, for in general it may be said, "I'm extremely limited by the State, blessed with my knowledge, in order to establish a professional success, guaranteeing that we are free of employment in the 75th g. The Constitution studies in that way that we define the right to limit it as a matter of public interest. Then we can ask: Do we reach our goals by establishing rules on how to work in the relevant sector, or do we need to limit access to the article? Limiting access to the branch creates a lack that in general creates a higher price. I find it very interesting to watch, for example. The price development of competitive and competitive service I've talked about it before in this room what it's meant in agricultural products, e.g. in dairy products that have greatly increased more than other foods or consumers in general during the time of competitiveness. If I recall a 44% more than the index price in the same period since 2004. As we look at the services of a taxi vehicle based on the Habitat information, cab service has increased by 45% more since 2012 than the rates of consumer prices in general. There's competition here. They seem to lead to a higher price than any other price on this market, as in most cases where we will use it. I'm completely impossible, and I can't be a prophet to tell you what would have happened if the competition had not been hindered. I can't tell you the number of cabs that would be employed here or taken into the full - time service or part of it or how that service had developed. Also, I don't think it's the government's job, trying to determine how the business should develop. It is possible for companies and individuals to have the tendency to find their own ways in these areas to make sure that they earn the best of their employment. There we have seen that intelligent thinking can be very beneficial and, in fact, essential for advancement in the sector. I have also been a zealous advocate of free competition that contributes exactly to a more healthy business. There have been many arguments that I would like to reflect on, which have to do with the professional. There's something here. Talk about freedoms from disabled persons to work in the business field, whether they can serve a passenger or not. Whether to allow tax evasion or an individual who has been convicted of some sort of crime to work in this business is discussed. Whether a person who has gone bankrupt is said to drive a cab and then down the street. There have been various arguments. I'll say, "Okay." Then let us consider what general limitations we would like to set people's freedom of work. If I have been convicted of some kind of crime, what profession can I work in? What profession can I work in if I've gone bankrupt? What profession can I work in if I am disabled? Is my lawgiver going to give me a law on that? Is it not just my final opinion whether I can do my job or not? I'm going to hope that, at least, because I think that the job and the job freedom of the disabled are as important as anything. This is not the subject of mass limitation into the sector. This is primarily the subject of the professional demands we make to those in it. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, the requirements for them should be the same for all who work in such a trade, not just for some. In the Parliamentary arrangement discussed here, transport and rural management are merely to hide the maximum number of employment vacancies in traffic cars and to reduce the number of costs for their hosts and open up a Icelandic cab market for higher competition. It is not about to create some privileged group in the industry that are supposed to operate by some other protocol than those already in it. Of course, all of us are to act on the same guidelines in that regard. It is, in the final analysis, a question of whether we believe and rely on competition to produce the most practical conclusion at the market, practical service, good service, it may also be at low prices, it can be different. It has been discussed here whether there should be additional options for cars, medium cars, inexpensive cars. All of this is generally presented on the basis of supply and demand. We are to trust this market as well as all other markets to do so. We have mentioned a similar type of work in which we demand some ability; to run the pharmacy, to run a bakery, to run some kind of health care. Once again: I am free to start such a service, but, of course, I need to meet the requirements of the lawgiver to me for the operation of that service. This is as good as anywhere else. We need to make a distinction between trying to restrict a person's freedom in order to start a job successfully and what requirements we would like to make for the job. I don't see anything, because opening up this market just doesn't make sense. Say: It's not the Lawgiver to tell us the maximum number of permits in the industry, but it's certainly the Lawgiver and until local governments decide on the conditions we're going to set up for them in general. There I think we can totally meet all the security requirements, quality requirements, and other requirements we want to make for a cab drive, as in any other industry that we approach in exactly the same way. So there is nothing to be afraid of.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u77	V.E.G. President. We who do not embrace this proposal without a word of speech are opposed to competition. Our ancestors have probably spoken against the phone at the time. We're against evolution in society. We'd like to have a monopoly. In some Cities, there is nothing worse, no greater sin than competition. This suggests that the leg is pulled at a single time from a staff of 600 people, just as if to pull a blanket and to cut off their feet. Why? There's gonna be more competition here. With what? By lowering the stand. It's the simplest. Now I'm going to say what. Transporters: If they are serious about competing for transports in Iceland, let me point them out an example far more intimate and far more than just cleaning up the cab sector. They can contribute to natural competition on the way from Reykjavík to Leifs son of Erik's Air Station and back in a group van. Then we'd be talking. But in this suggestion, as this suggests, simply do not make the same demands for those who come into the market as for those who are already on the surface. As I said before, there is no requirement for human beings to be their masters. They don't have to have a car. True, it is said that they should have a test, but as indicated above, others must be viewed as an abnormal limitation of the individual's employment rights. By permission of the highest power. President: It is more likely that courses and tests for employment permit are a measure of whether a person is qualified to drive a cab. Others have to be viewed as an abnormal limitation of the individual's employment freedom. Whether a man owns a car or borrows from a neighbor or his sister to drive a cab is an unusual limit. That's a law on the size of cabs. There are certain conditions that need to be met by passengers in the inner space. No, we'll just take Grandma's little Fiat and drive a cab, fail, cheat on her back. It doesn't matter. We're not buying Benz or me to drive any passengers in and around Reykjavík. Not really, not when we get through with this. When you lower the stand on those who enter the article and compete with others who have done something better, there is no problem in doing something about it. No problem. Everyone can do that. It's my main concern, except for the security of those who are already in this article. Use proben, those who practice this trade in Iceland, are usually part of a team that is closer to my heart. We are usually talking about a very large company that runs a lot of cabs and hires contractors to drive. More often than not, it is human society's foothold. We only need to watch a cab model like that. in New York, where we go up to a yellow cab that is handled with a pecked satin, yellowish colour, and a man or a woman who is in a bad position runs. Is that what we want? I don't think so. I also want to protect myself from consumers in this matter. I want to be the next to be sure when I order a cab and, you take a probe, when I call for a cab or order it in an app, I don't usually tell you that I want Mercedes Benz 2007 with leather, but I'll just get a cab. If he comes from an approved taxi station, he's off to a fixed standard. If I call acup guy, there's a bankrupt man who's got a scam on his back on my grandmother's car that I don't know what it's like and offers to drive myself through town without insurance. If we get hit by a bus, he'll just say, "Excuse me, I just couldn't help it. He has no responsibility. Do we really want this? Are we moving this moving down to that plan? Is that right? One of the representatives of the case said before asked: "We don't offer solutions. - No, isn't it? If you make a suggestion for something, you must put it to the finish. You must look at it to the end. To make one of these proposals is not like a buffet, you don't just pick the graffiti and let go of the other. You take the whole package, don't you? Then there's one more thing. There is no mention of insurance in this proposal. There is no mention of any tax rate, how it should be done, or not. This proposal leads to tax fraud, adventureful tax fraud. Because what example do we have? For three and a half or four years, however, the person who stands here has talked to several ministers in this hall and has asked them in every town to get in touch with Airbnb function here in Reykjavík, where 3,000 units are undecided and not pay taxes. Why? Nor have they been taken for fire reasons, etc. The hotels are being offered a little less than they do in the hotels. Why? Because humans are offering less quality for the plant, housing is being offered that has not been taken out of the burn authorities and is not registered. How, like a shuttle, will people follow it? How will they apply it when needed and legal fees are paid? Then I'll say again, there is no problem in working if you don't pay taxes and duties. I'm willing to run any company and have it pretty good if I'm almost sure that the IRS won't knock on my door, and I don't have to pay back anything. The world's least problem. Even if I'm under oath to be against a fierce competition, and I'm sure I'm moss build and in the bones of a male dinosaur, I'm telling you, when you make a case like this, we have to make demands, we must make demands that protect our customers. I know my name is Víglundsson. A senator who earlier came to shame me for opposing competition is a consumer. He's been doing business for more and more years, and he knows that his client is the main thing. Why, then, are we going to disfellowship our client by making this suggestion? Why will we offer less quality, less security? They say, "It's a lower price." Yeah, okay, it may well be a lower price, but there's no guarantee that it is, not anyone. The only thing we can be sure of is if we call or send a message through an app, or whatever we do, or we go on the phone and order a car, that to us a bankrupt man on his grandmother's car with no insurance and offered to drive us anywhere on the land. Is that what we want? No, we want to be safe when we take a cab. We want to make sure it's professional. That is why I say, there is nothing against opening this system if we are reasonably certain that it will improve. I say again: Let us be sure that we are taking steps that we can live with, because we do not know what comes from the review, but we do not know what is introduced by the former Supreme Court. A minister of transportation to which all parties are involved. We don't know what's going to happen. So why are we going to force ourselves into that tub when we do not know what comes out of that work? Why are we going to set up this disaster here, reducing the standards of all this activity no matter where it is looked and reducing the safety of customers? I can't write up on these things, I'm sorry. It is a wonderful freedom, as the law says, but let us not allow it to affect those who are to be used in the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u78	A respectable president. I must admit that I missed only a talk. Senator, I had to get the hell out of my way. But I heard why. A senator mentions it, if I sensed it correctly, in a certain scandalous tone if bankrupt persons and people with perhaps some criminal conviction or something similar on their back could earn a cab ride. I don't quite understand why something is bad. I fully understand that you do not want individuals to have been guilty of a certain offense when they engage in a particular job, e.g. not people who have committed sexual crime while working with children. I don't think there's anything I can do about it. It's not suggested here that everything will be taken care of somehow. By permission of the president, the proposal stands to reduce the budget for their well - being, i.e. The workaholics - ▪ and open up a Icelandic rental market for more competition. It's not about everyone just being allowed to do everything they want, no matter what, it's not a suggestion. I simply don't understand what's wrong with a bankrupt person, who even has some criminal conviction on his back that doesn't involve driving a cab or not reducing his ability, ability, or credibility to do that job, his job. What's wrong with someone doing it, maybe in the car of their grandmother, her mother, or her mate, or what one? What's wrong with the person's having very little money in that car and borrowing most, saying 90%, he may have paid out 10%. I don't understand the problem. There's a senator there. I'd like to ask you a question, too. The senator's record of how many cabs are registered at the head of the government tax and how many shuttles are insured. I don't expect to do that. A senator's answer is because I think he would answer as I did before, that the figure is about zero or just about. I ask about it more in dissolutely because I thought it was strange to ask these questions earlier. But most of all, I want to know: What's wrong with a bankrupt person driving a cab?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u79	V.E.G. President. I feel sorry for what. A senator not to have heard my entire speech, she was damn good, though I say it myself. This is not about the fact that the person standing here has a horn in the pages of those who have gone bankrupt, far from then on. Besides, it's not that the person standing here doesn't want anyone who's done wrong ever to get back to work. It's not about that. However, this is about the fact that in the law on taxis and in the regulations in which these regulations are assumed that those who do this service are a capitalist and have not done wrong, I cannot quite remember the exact word, for some time. That's what it's all about. As I said before in my speech, there's nothing wrong with that, huh? A senator, that such people do some work. However, it is not desirable for me to conclude that those who come new into one sector are not under the same measure as those already employed in this article. That's what I meant, huh? Senator. I reiterate that I do not look down on people who have suffered the disaster of bankrupting, as it were, or have committed crimes, of course not. I'm just saying, if we have a specific operation and are going to let someone else into it, we just have the same requirements for those who are already involved in the business. There's nothing wrong with being on your grandmother's car if the car is the same size as expected taxis to be, if he has the same insurance, but there's nothing about it in the suggestion. It is being opened up to bring less quality requirements into practice. We must agree that what we are looking for is not in itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u80	A respectable president. I'm going to read the whole proposal, with the permission of a president: The General concluded to hide transport and local government minister to eliminate the maximum number of jobs required for driving a car, reduce costs for their services, and open an Icelandic rental market for increased competition. Nowhere does it say that there is no bail demand. It does not say that there are no demands on the function of a taxi driver or the automobiles they drive. That is not indicated in the suggestion. Just reducing our costs must be something we want to do, especially if we agree that e.g. A bankrupt person should be able to drive a taxi that sounds to me somehow. A base senator would agree with me. However, the question is, Was it true? A senator has something I respect, which is that when new people enter this profession that doesn't have to submit to what they already are, there's a certain imbalance or a sense of unreasonableness toward those who have to submit to all these responsibilities. I respect that point. If we are going to use him to resist ministration, that means that any charge we put on the article is in its nature permanent. Surely we need to be able to reduce such charges, although there was someone who had previously had to fulfill some prior obligation, otherwise we could never go to any freedom because there was always someone ahead of us who would have to meet any further requirement. As I'm saying, there's some condition that you can certainly have that person's loyalty. It is impossible, however, to follow such duties or such, in my opinion, if it is an illegal activity, such as the shuttle group. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator: If we don't change anything, we don't make it through, and we throw this proposal into the ocean, just for fun, what are we gonna do in this shuttle case? So, what are we gonna do in Uber? What, then, should we do in the development of technology?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for the answer and to reread the motion to me again. On the other hand, I would like to kindly advise him to read the report because it explains what it means to fall away. I give as an example, with the permission of a president. It says: There is also the need to review the demands of the permit holder that a principle recorded by the owner of a car or the first authority in a contract with a legitimate hire or management agency should be the sole authority... In this regard, we are saying that men are the masters of their authority. Only earlier in the report says, with permission of the president: ▪ The fact that a permit worker has the principle of rent driving a car is unnecessary and inhibits many people who might otherwise want to earn money by motor vehicles without having the main job. There are students and people with impaired skills, both groups of whom I deeply respect and want the road to the best. But why let them get into a business that is already under laws and break the Law so that they can get into the business, huh? Senator? I don't understand. I think it's an excellent idea for me to open up on more freedom in this. We have to make sure that our freedom does not turn into its opposite side. We must also be sure of one thing - because of the other. A senator asked me a little bit about the number of dicks registered in the state tax managers, etc., but that's a question that the movers should have been asking about and in the paper so that we knew what this was all about. Because, as it is now, this proposal is for real tax fraud, as I said before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u82	Mr. President. I think it's perfectly clear that I and I were. A senator doesn't share the same belief in free competition, it sounds like his language. I wondered about two parts of a lawsuit or two. Senator. I believe in commercial guidelines. I believe that no matter what job we are working for or what jobs we do for a living, in general being under the same rules and laws as to the conditions that are set for us to serve there. It's about our job freedom. That's why I'm asking. A member of Congress: Is it not so natural to discuss it in a general way when we will lose our job freedom in some way? Is there, then, any special business that is sensitive? Should we have one, two, three categories of the conditions we set for business in our individual sectors, whether of laws, judgments, temporary removal and severity, etc.? Is it not reasonable to approach this in a general way? Because that's a lot of sensitive jobs we have. Those who are serving us in the very near ministry or in our dealings with us in rendering that service. I think it's quite normal to approach it in a general way. I'm curious too. Hv. A senator says that by opening up to freedom there, we're doing this trade in the past all kinds of tax frauds and so on. I would like to turn this argument around and say, "We know black jobs in most places, if not all the jobs in this country. So that's a solution. A senator with the problem we can agree on is a major problem, to resort to the number of restrictions, the public mass control of all these sectors, in order to prevent tax fraud? Counts 'em out. A senator that no tax fraud is found in a cab?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. Common rules of rules, says so. Senator. I'm quite aware that general guidelines should honor you when you start work. In my earlier years on a professional committee, I came to many cases that were just to be coddled with men who wanted to get their own ground, though conservative and against free competition. A senator believes. There is another rule, however, that I also honor, that is the equal rule of government law. So that's why I'm against any particular profession, it doesn't matter whether it's this sector or another, if new people come and pin themselves on the market, where other people who have been set up for specific rules and specific requirements, and that they have fallen away or relax on the requirements to make a new group, whoever he is, possible to come to work in that article. I don't see any better than if we do, we're even breaking this rule that the government laws put on us. There's something else. There are black jobs in many other places. Then there's a lot of trouble to point out another, the master of a song, but that's not the answer here. I can assure you what. A senator will soon, if ever. The President allows, will be here for a special discussion I've requested regarding the customs guard. That's where it's gonna be. A senator will find out what he might do in an effort to root out tax fraud and to try to improve debt when under pressure. I look forward to the discussion with what it is. Even a member of the council. But I can also agree with him, and I might find that in later my reply, about the professions, where people who have broken laws recently or farther away have reentered a course. [[The president calls.]] There are some professions. A senator whom I would like to limit access to because of some past misdeeds.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u84	Mr. President. At least I can comfort each other. A senator by saying that I am not a lesser fan of the 90th rule than he claims to be. So we hardly have to argue for long over the fact that we want the same rules to be true, about new ones who are coming into this business and those who are already alive. Of course, the same rules apply; there is no other requirement in this synonym. It's just talking about cutting down the number limit. Granted, there are various ideas to minimize the demands involved, but that certainly applies to all, including those who now work in the article. I'm glad to hear it. A senator here for a special tax issue, of course, is of utmost importance to the job life as long as monitoring is well supervised and all play the same rules. It is the worst thing that happens in competition when dishonest people choose to play by their own rules, do not pay taxes on their business. We should always root out and work against such activities, of course. I'm not particularly worried that opening free competition in the industry is a special payment for tax fraud. In fact, I shudder to think of the dissident of it. I'm asking why. A candidate in again: Isn't it the solution to have an efficient, effective, effective surveillance of all sectors when it comes to such a tax fraud? Is that not a better way than to limit the number of people serving in these articles? I'm just saying, for example, because tax fraud and construction industry have been asked together, whether it's fair or not, should we use the mass limit to those who have the right to build and sell apartments? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer that makes me think a little bit. Hv. A senator says that the main theme of this proposal is to skip the number limit. I can't look at it that way. He says: There are some over-regulated ideas here. This is a paper with a synopsis, which is a legal solution, and people do not run away with it by saying that it is here to swerve some ideas, because it is specifically said that there are demands on those who practice this activity against those who used to practice it. I began to think about it a little earlier: At times, we are trying to influence classes that are rather weak, entering them. One fine example related to a similar profession is that of guides who have not yet been legalized according to what I know best. I was looking for it on the web and I couldn't find it. Then, all kinds of people have been invited to say about Iceland, and they don't know where Baula is when they drive up the North Valley. I say, we should not go into any class that may stand a bit in its perpendition by giving to others who want to get a discount on the demands that the others have worked on. I'm not going anywhere. A senator, who is being reinvented, is beinglittled by demands for those who are supposed to be involved in this operation. That is very clear in this article. Nothing can run away from it. Nor can anyone ever run away from it now and say that the main thing in this synopsis is the reduction of mass limits. It's simply not right. It's just that the demands of those who are going to be involved are being severely relaxed. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u86	A respectable president. I believe that it is long time to revise the law on cabs. So I welcome the discussion that has taken place today following the contributions of this council arrangement. I want to thank you. Transporters, as well as members of the council who have participated in the discussion. You see, I believe safe, easy, and successful transportation is one of the most important things public needs to secure, and cab cars are part of that network. By permission of the President, the U.S. A driving vehicle is a public service article that involves renting a car along with a driver for a certain price to transport passengers and their luggage. I admit that my interest in changing these excellent legislation is not only in the thought of freedom but also also in my vision of the structure and structure of the capital sector and the importance of the powerful public transport. I think taxis or some kind of driver's license should be part of that system. In fact, Mr. President, in many countries, taxis are being driven under public transportation, known in some places where all cabs are designed to form their own metals, and they are all driven by some kind of public surveillance that is in controlling this, although all of them are on the market that perhaps owns their cars and works themselves. It was on the basis of my thinking during the last term that I presented a transportation minister's request to respond to the opinion of the EFTA. I also wanted to request a summary of these matters in other countries that we would like to compare with and what the experience there was, e.g. Of Uber and elevators, and if there were and any restrictions on that sector, and if there were any restrictions on the basis of it. As we have seen in the discussion today, there are, of course, different experiences. I think it's important that when we intend to change our legislation, we know what other countries' experience from this and how we can try to peel off the bait that may be there. I'm sorry, but I didn't get to make my most excellent report request, but I did not. The secretary of transportation and unit, Jón Gunnarsson, appointed a team to review the overall law on motor vehicle driving. The task force was to provide proposals for ministers to see if and what changes are necessary in Icelandic driving regulations based on ESA opinion against Norway and initiative analysis in Iceland. A special discussion of freedom in a cab market last week, if I recall correctly, was made that the staff has been working since October last October, and the final report of a service group is expected in March. The group is assigned to answer the main question: Is there a rule on driving a taxi and implementing it according to the EEA Convention? If the answer is no, what changes do the work force suggest in order or in order to do so? Is it proper to assume the services of passengers such as Uber and elevators on this country, and what changes are needed in Icelandic legislation to do so? A panel has been looking for references to a number of people. In view of today's debate, it's been a little bit of a matter for everyone to come up with this matter, I think it's very important. I assume that when the report is presented, there are also different groups of people. I'd like, with President's permission, to kill down a little bit into a review that came from the Professional Association. But it says: ... that it is inevitable to change the legal environment of taxis as soon as possible by keeping access into the article. It should not be necessary to meet conditions to drive a cab but to have a valid driver's license, to have proof of good conduct, and to have a planned activity written by the tax authorities. It would reduce prices, pay for traffic, improve services, reduce parking need, increase flexibility, increase security, bring economic gains, and increase innovation. I have to admit, I take my heart to this statement by the Association of Professional Affairs. When I was studying the affairs of a taxi car during my last term and began reading a law on these matters, my special attention caught up in Article 9. By permission of the President's commission, the surviving spouse and estate: Since the film has now been converted to the Grouping Room - ◯ It is permitted to allow the widowed mate to use his employment permit for up to three years after the death of a permit. A surviving local resident or a local resident may have been treated as a surviving partner for at least two years on a national scale - adding to this excellent 2002 directive a change in 2012 - ▪ or other unconvinced data. It is permitted to match the applicant's declaration of marriage, confirmed by two persons who declare that they are familiar with the applicant's wishes. I wonder if the legislatureor feels necessary, or the executive authority, to set up regulations like this, I think we may be going a little too far in the Regulation. As I told you earlier, I'm very happy to hear this discussion. I'm absolutely aware that we need to change the current law code. I think we'll be forced to do that within a minute. But I agree that there are many views and some things to consider. One major factor in this regard is safety. All these factors have to be reviewed. The experiences of other countries must also be considered, since this is also part of the transport system in my mind. The complete opening of the license should also not result in just cabs when the demand is highest, making sure it's 24 hours a day across the area and the like. I expect and trust that the fine working group will be the highest. During the last term, a minister arranged for us to do a good job, and we are now given clear suggestions on how to correct the law and order. As they said before, freedom is wonderful, I agree absolutely, but freedom comes with responsibility as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u87	Hv. President. I'm gonna be brief. Sometimes I get a label for being a liberal and even a fanatic. But I feel like people talk a little bit and south of this case or maybe rather not about the same thing. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir Ari, son of Trausti Guðmundsson, who, by all means, is not in the same ideologies as I am. Then I thought to myself, " We just agree a lot. ' Then I listened to Þorsteinn Víglundsson, who is very close to my opinions, and I thought, " I agree with him. ' But that's because they were a little talking about each other. I can totally agree that your freedom may be increased, i.e. if you have the same requirements for everyone. The requirements can be addressed to human qualifications, tests, they can attend first - aid courses and etc. It may turn out that everyone sits at the same table as insurance, cars, and has to have a station to destroy. The problem is, I want to tell you what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Víglundsson, that when you read the motion, you go quite a different way. Actually, the demands are being slowed down. I'm not sure that I agree that even though I am a liberal, I would like to expect those who sell services to a consumer. That they meet strict conditions. This also applies to lawyers, since they were mentioned here, and other classes. Although the synopsis is used in this way, the idea of compromising the claim is the result. I'm probably one of the few members of the council who have a lot of ties with taxis and cab drivers. I'm raised by one. I was 12 years old when I started serving gasoline at a BSRport, and I drove a cab during my college years. This is a very special class, and some would say that it should be protected and at peace. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We must not destroy it with such a pedicure proposal. This class doesn't look alike. Perhaps one of the causes is to make some peace proposals that could solve this problem. But what I find especially, because we're talking about liberalism, etc., is that those who beat their breasts for melancholy, who are now predominantly reverends in this matter, could not even be on the case or agree that other non - state workers supplied alcohol. These men, most of them, are free to do so. Men choose their freedom of choice, and these same liberals were going to oblige all employers to publish something as expensive as it is for consumers and handless systems, which I approved, though with a bad taste in their mouths, as they say. No, it's very selective liberal. I don't really take the whole thing into consideration. As long as men can't let me buy alcohol from privates, there's no free spirit. That's my opinion. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] But I'm saying, as I'm saying, I think it's very important that all those who serve, I don't talk about passengers of any kind where people's lives often are, don't forget - it doesn't matter if they have a broken lawyer - when they're alive and in health, it doesn't matter. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] In the end, all Icelanders are very big lawyers and advise one another on it. It's, for example. No legal protection on a lawyer, so everyone can call themselves that. It matters that there are real men driving rent and when men who have been driving for a long time as they are, as great as they are, as special as they are, we can't destroy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u88	A respectable president. I'd like to be able to stand here and answer. A senator for the rest of the day and until midnight, if that were to be changed. I see we have some unfinished business here. I think it's a bad time sometimes. paritaprevir Uncle Brynjar's Níelsson is a little helpful in whether he's a conservative or a liberal, but I think he has more of this type of oppositional disorder.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u89	Indefinity disorder.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u90	He seems to be a liberal when he intends to resist the conservative but conservative action of some casual matter. And here it seems he's going to take the conservative part. I can comfort you. A senator for his concern with alcohol that we are about to submit to the new bill, together, if I recall correctly. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is with me in this regard, so it is not that a restorationer rather than any liberal is opposed to selling alcoholic beverages to non - state. In fact, we have previously been transporting such a case along with members of the Independence Party. At least that's where we agree. But when it comes to comments, I wondered. Senator, I know he shares with me the concept that consumers should have the freedom to choose. I share with him the belief that we have a lot of great cab service today, that I'm not complaining about it. We have a good cab driver, a high service level. Actually, I had an interesting conversation with a cab driver the other day who said that he was not worried about Uber, just because Uber wasn't supposed to be doing the job of an Icelandic cab. I think he can be totally right, and that's just fine. So it's just consumer freedom and consumers will choose either Uber or ARM or BSR or anyone else. I know I'll make my own demands, but I just want to make a choice. That's why I ask him, "Why?" A senator something that will allow consumers to choose carefully? I'm going to come in later and answer a little bit more about what's in it. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u91	Hv. President. I want less of it. A member of the House of Independence is formed from two categories, the Habitat and the Freeness Party. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] So this concept is not entirely new. Regarding the resistance, it's called adepressive stress disorder, which I've been told many times in my home that I'm in bad shape. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] About the new liquor bill. [[First, we must talk about it.]] - First we have to talk about something that's natural, a lot more interesting. It reminds me that the first messenger of this synonym has now been rather opposed to the liquor bill of independence in his day, if I recall correctly. Hv. A senator will deny it. Of course, I don't object to competition, but I insist that it is healthy and equal and that there are requirements for those who perform such important services. Uber will not do that. There's a lot of change for Uber, and that's why we don't compare it, that my knowledge is as it is today. But competition is very good. And because of what? paritaprevir This is where Birgir mentioned that the law in Sweden had been changed in 1986, then I was there in the spring of 1986, and I tried for three hours sometime in the middle of the night to get a cab. It must have been just before it was changed. You couldn't get a cab in Sweden then, can't be done. I don't want to see it here. I'd like to have healthy competition, make a lot of demands, because it's a level of security.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u92	The president thus points to members of Congress that they give full name to other members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u93	Yeah, I thought it might be a fun answer. I know why. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. Motive disorder or not, we share the same view that the majority of people are ill - treated with free competition. I think it's just as relevant in cab cars as anything else. Actually, I'm more interested in hearing opinions. A senator on the subject of this synonym. It is primarily directed to what is being accomplished. A secretary of transportation to eliminate multiple restrictions and certainly to investigate ways to reduce or reduce some of the demands made or do them in general. However, I cannot see in any way that it will result from what has been discussed here as being impartial, whether it is Uber or a new member of the market or one who is already working there. I can't read it from this report. In fact, I don't think it would also pass the rules of equality, trusting in it. Transporter fully to establish general guidelines in this field. In the end, the main point must be to lift the competitive spirit. I think it's good to keep in mind, despite what is in the paper on some of the ideas that are in them, that I don't think that there's a legal solution. If this case is held at the council, then the bill would likely follow. A secretary of transportation, which went further into the conditions that would be set. I'm counting on it. A senator agrees with me in that opinion. I can also comfort you. A senator on the alcohol bill that the whole group of reenactment is on the bill when it comes to it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u94	Hv. President. I think we're right next to what's going on. Senator that we're not far from each other, I think we just agree. That is why in my talk earlier, I said that I could have said every word there. I can totally agree with the synopsis proposal, i.e. Its wording, but the problem is that there is far more in it than that. The whole report just tells me everything else, and that's what I feel. It turns out that the purpose of this synonym is to relax the requirements, let in here companies working completely differently, perform completely different services, perform less demands, etc. and that's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u95	But according to the same rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u96	Yes, but I'm not prepared to relax the demands to get these companies in because I think they'll be harmed, except that they're removing all character from the class. You can't do that, either. That's why I say I'm ready to look at increasing competition. By the way, there's one station that seems to be out of control, which I don't think is healthy either. So I'm ready to take a look at it all. But I don't want to accept this synonym with this paper. If it was better, I'd look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u97	Mr. President. Thank you for your exhilarating discussion, and you've become quite familiar with a lot of facts here today. One of the things that I might most love is that it seems that the link between the hold and the spirit of liberality lies in the alcohol. Well, that's somehow my conclusion. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn stone of Víglundsson has done well, so alcohol may no longer be involved in my friend's actions. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son will come up here in a speech chair and discuss the matter. I specifically mention this because he was very concerned about the changes in human names the other day. Then it's just clear. What I want to ask you is why. A senator is talking about the difference between the synonym and then the report, clearly, in the other and in the other, that demand is being corrected. I'd like to ask, so I hope I can ease my worry, "What exactly is the reason?" A senator to point it out? I got it right here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u98	V.E.G. President. This is underlined specifically in the report: The latter is a key factor in opening an Icelandic market for a domestic service in companies such as Uber and Liftt, which is based on both contract freedom and the benefits of the shared economy. Just this sentence says it's being relaxed because we know what it's like in these companies. I kind of agree with that. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, this has nothing to do with a shared economy. I say, though, that it sleeps within me a liberal, sleeps in me a conservative. I may have said it before, perhaps more than once here in the Sermon on the Mount, that I am more and less thinking about the consumer, not just about what he gets cheaply, but how I can make sure that he gets a good service, a secure service, and a safe service, etc. There's a lot more to this than just the crowns and the money. I think it's so important. That is why I found it so strange that I suddenly agreed. paritaprevir In every word, which we may not be accustomed to, Aritus Guðmundsson, but our sense remains somewhere, somewhere in which we must be sensible. And I make great effort not to go anywhere that we lose control and is to harm just because it is in the name of some kind of liberality of that kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. I feel a little bit, as if I should apologize for having used the text this way and doing it. A senator agrees with the person he has described as having almost agreed against his will. But it's just that I don't agree with it. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son that this is the very purpose. It says here at the latest, and it is being referred to to as a result of having a valid currency, and then it becomes a key factor in opening an Icelandic market for a foreign service in companies such as Uber and A prescription. There are a lot of other companies. We are primarily talking about using this technology. Uber and Lyft are not available to people in this market, as they have behaved and become visible in many places. They've violated certain regulations that have nothing to do with a taxi market. They have not met the obligation to civil affairs, in fact, they vary from country to country. All too often, when talking about some changes, the discussion begins to revolve around individual companies, and perhaps we have some fault by mentioning the firm's firm. It was mainly to inform what we were talking about, because most people know the smartphone program that these companies use. They are very known. Businesses are secondary on this. This market is opening up so that this technology can be used too. Because of what? paritaprevir The armoures of the Guðmundsson of Níelsson are spoken. Ari I'm going to let me do the same, but in his speech earlier, he said that we didn't have to pursue technology, it didn't control, this is where the future would be, somehow that was spoken. I think there's a middle road. I don't think we can legalize what the future will be like and completely ignore these technological changes. Then we'll have half the people on an illegal Facebook page using that technology. [[The president calls.]] But I may have misunderstood. A senator. The question was: If we agree on the understanding that in this sentence we were talking about this technology, it's sad. A senator better? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u100	Hv. President. I don't think this case should have anything to do with technology. [[Up front.]] There's always someone driving you. This case doesn't have to do with who you're calling. Of course, we decide what demands we make for the person who drives a person to pay. Whether you can go to an app or not or what, call out and south, I just don't think it matters. [[Up front.]] No, I'm just asking, What are the requirements? The requirements are irrelevant. I'm just saying, I want to, if I'm gonna pay a expensive car home in the middle of the night, that it's just real people who drive me on a real car that can help me if I get in breath, etc. That's what I'm thinking about. Not some hippie who's never driven a car before and long hair and even has a beard that, of course, doesn't work. [[Up front.]] No, it was for fun, I hope it doesn't make much paper. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I would like to make certain demands, and as I said earlier, I would have been able to share my words with others. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson moved himself after what was happened. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, I could have signed it completely, too, as far as she could have achieved if this paper with the Senate decree wasn't, the text. Of course, I will not interfere with the increase in competition or competitive competition, let's say, since the consumer can have more freedom of choice, etc., if these requirements are perfectly clear and equal to everyone and they are not relaxed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u101	The president chooses to overlook what he says. A senator about a bearded man.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u102	A respectable president. There's been a really interesting discussion tonight about this subject. Of course, I'm very happy that then the secretary of transportation, Jón Gunnarsson, has arranged a group of staff to change the market cab service because we need to change this, but not least because the system as it is today is a monotonous and decisive nature and lack of all innovation. Of course, this is a drawback because in such monotonous markets technology is not involved and it does not develop to the same level. In this regard, many of the interesting reports have been made that there is often a small demand for cab services, but at the same time it is claimed that the number of cab drivers would be greatly increased. I understand that this is the case in the Generals' pontta that the general public is so badly given that it enters the industry as little or no demand. I just don't think the public is that bad. I have none, not one concern that here all the people of the country will start offering cab service if there is no demand for it. Besides, I find it interesting to see how that cab law came about in 1952 when my father wasn't even born. By permission of the President, I'm going to get a witness on the law: ▪ This is the recommendation of the motorist company's driver and bus manager's company The Law was given to protect a group of interests. It was put in the first two lines of the report, on the request of a small group, a group of interests. I hope that there will be widespread reconciliation in the Department of Transport for Change, and I believe that drivers should also be pleased to have increased flexibility in services and prices. They could create far more opportunities to meet a demand from the public, which I have no doubt would change considerably if we took the monopoly market we live in today. How wonderful it would be if more homes were to use taxis in increasing numbers, but this requires increasing flexibility in this very twofold service and inflation! This would reduce the demand that the black economy is facing today, of course, without our feeling that we need to vacate it. It's really about business freedom, opportunity to develop new solutions, freedom of choice, and limit the intervention of the state of healthy competition. Most important, it's about one company that, of course, has seized the opportunity in other countries. It's not supposed to be about one company at all, it's only about increasing employment freedom and diversity on this market. There is one other thing I'd like to mention, although it could be discussed all night, as the discussion has indicated. I find it interesting how to find out that there is more equal between parties if there are mass restrictions than if everyone who meets objective quality conditions could be involved. Of course, we want to set some normal conditions, that is something we should agree on in a good job done at the Ministry. While we disagree with what that requirement should be, members who have participated in the discussion are not to be stopped when people support the change of the monopolitan market and support more freedom in the market because there are many reasons. Of course, it would be my time for those who want to maintain such systems that I mean to be an ancient system with limits and obstacles, to have some convincing argument why it should be so, instead of that which we, in fact, want to increase the freedom of the market, always have to give the best and all the evidence in the discussion so that things will have some natural change that Iceland should have been through in 2018 long ago. Finally, a respectable president, I would like to say that the same laws and regulations apply to other shops and services should be followed by cab service and driving. The first step is to eliminate the restrictions the Kingdom has placed on the article. To worry about this tremendous concern, as I mentioned at the beginning because of the changes in this market and freedom, which some people would like to put here in Quotes, that it will be all too much cab service, like to have really worry that here comes too many hair shops, or too many fish stores, so we'd like to put on it some mass restrictions. It would be interesting to know that those who advocate changes in this market would tell me why they want to have count limits on normal shops and services, as they are protecting on this market, if they cannot stand by setting mass limits on other services. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u103	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more with that. A senator, I thank her for her excellent speech, couldn't have said it much better myself. So I'm curious to find out what it's like for a group of whales. A senator has not wanted to present himself in such a fine manner. I admit I don't know the whole thing about the gathering of business partners, but I can't read anything else out of the question. At least a member of the council agree wholeheartedly with the case and is likely to be willing to support it. I know we're together. A senator likes to tease us with reformers by saying that restoration is the same language that makes little more than talk for the European Union, and if we have something else to talk about, it's an old matter of liberation from the Independence Party like this. I sometimes feel like the Independence Party has some freedom issues on a shelf that he likes to take down at regular intervals, but keep from finishing because it is so good to be able to move them over and over again. I'd like to ask you what. Is it not, then, that in this fine case, I think we are quite agreeing that the best thing to do is to finish, that we agree to try to finish it? 'Cause I'm so completely agreeed. Senator. The government should not be trying to control markets with multiple limits. We can set market rules, but we would never think of trying to control the grocery market by limiting the number of stores, or the hair shop, as well as the driving area. A senator mentioned. Of course, that does not apply to taxis.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Perhaps I was rather hoping to get an answer from the other direction, to be honest, and to find the answer to my question, " Do I want to put mass restrictions on other shops and services? ' Hv. A senator asks why we have not been involved in this matter. It is simply that my team began working on this in the Ministry during the last term to achieve widespread peace and to explore all aspects of the situation for change. I supported that work, and I've encouraged people of my team to do this. The work has been successful, and the group is expected to submit their final report very soon, from what I understand. It is for the simple reason that I think it is wise for me to try to look for ways to create legislation that most people can accept with freedom as a guide and eliminate multiple restrictions on the way. I guess I'll get some good results from this group, but if not, it's more than probably support this synonym.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u105	A respectable president. I hope so. In view of this, a senator forgives certain doubts over the course of time. A senator has been in the government for nearly 25 years, if I recall correctly, without being very successful in this, the longest of which is the forward movement of this case and is now a government with the Independence Party and the Left Green. I have to admit that the case of the former candidate, we can say, and the left green, that the idea of freedom doesn't go too much there. I may not share my optimism. A senator claims that a liberal version of this case comes out of work at the Department of Transport. If that happened, I'd be surprised. I'm not going to rule that out. I'm asking why. A senator's conviction is that at least this mass limit will be taken away, which is the basic theme of the Senate resolution and, in fact, the main competition in existing legislation, i.e. That the state will put mass restrictions there. I'll take what. A senator's word is only to say that he will not be able to do so. A senator supports this decree. Because I'm always being invited to sit with other political parties, that's fine, in view of that. A senator will agree with us in Resurrected, saying that there is always room for good people there, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the invitation, but I'll answer him here and say I'm going to decline it, for the Independence Party has provided the greatest progress towards freedom of all classes. For example, in this regard there are many subjects; the radio we listen to on the way to work would be free only for the child of the independents. We have fought for many freedoms in the past, but we have had few party members here at a council that has supported them. Many cases have taken a long time, something that we probably feel today, such as watching a color TV, listening to the Waves, and drinking beer. We just need to move on, and it's good to have people here who agree with us in this direction. Hv. A senator asks me about my convictions about what will come out of this committee. I believe that there are ideas to eliminate mass restrictions, with some condition that people can accept. If that's not enough for us, then what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, let's just go beyond that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u107	A respectable president. I would like to thank you for a very good discussion of this subject, a Friðriksson discussion. It's been a living discussion, especially the latter part of it. I have to say, as it is, at any rate, I was well overlooked when the mid - discussion was passed and freedom was considerably higher under my head as it passed. I certainly hope that the council can gather for the changes I think are absolutely necessary in this area. As we have noted, it is very important to distinguish between the requirements we make for the market like this, the requirements of a driver working as a pro driver, and the challenges we make in the market. Of course, we, and here we are expected to set the same standard for all those on the market. We are merely saying that it is not in the interest of consumers, in the interest of free competition, to build a competitive competition that lies in the mass limit of any market, and not this one. It's right, that it's always been like this, even what came out in the matter anyway. paritaprevir Empresses the Brynjar of Níelsson said that it is such a good character for those who work in the market - which I don't question - in fact, it's because of many interesting character groups through the years who have even broken down - I don't think that's a reason for having competitive inhibitions or restrictions on the part of the State. It's a long time to change this. Here are some fine examples of how we have made a decision in terms of freedom. It is a bit sad to think that in recent years, even decades, less has happened to us to throw something really ahead. In fact, especially when it is time for our competition and competitive legislation, unfortunately, it took outside energy to really push us. The greatest steps we have taken in competitive surroundings are through the European Economic Area Convention and when we have just been sentenced to correct things by the ESA or the EFTA Court. I think it's a long time for us to show it here at Congress that we ourselves are able to make the necessary improvement in order to increase competition, of course, where we should have a primary point of view: consumer freedom of choice, that we believe that the market competition is for the benefit of consumers. Again and again, thank you for very good discussions and suggest that the matter be referred to the environment and transport committee and hope for a good discussion on this important and good subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u108	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize a change to public penalties, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes, about insults to foreign princes. The operators of the bill are together with the one standing here. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. I'm going to read the bill as it is, with the permission of a president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. Ninety-five. The law goes away. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ In other words, the bill is no bigger than this. But in an explanation of the discussion, and why this adjustment is suggested, I would like to read the 95th paragraph. general penal law, i.e. The article in the bill I recommend, and I and other transporters want to be eliminated. Ninety-five. That's what he says, by permission of the President: ▪ Anyone who publicly dishonors a foreign nation or a foreign state, its chief governor, its flag, its national flag, its flag, its flag, the flag of the United Nations, or the flag of the Council of Europe will be found guilty or imprisoned for up to 2 years. Now, for many reasons, the prison breaks down as long as 6 years. The same punishment will be for any who are publicly dishonored or defamed by others, other insults in words or actions, or defamatory innuendo of other non - Witness employees in this land. The same punishment will be for any who threaten or wield authority against the ambassadors of a foreign state in this country or who invade or damage a embassy or threaten it. So this article I want out of the general law of punishment. This bill has been submitted before, first at the Council of 145th but failed to succeed. It was reassigned to the 146th legislature and then by a reimbursement of a new edition, which is now reassigned from the 146th Parliament. The reason I carry the bill is that in recent years freedom of expression has been quite tight in many parts of the world. The freedom of journalists has been impaired, and governments in individual countries have tried to root out critical debates, even across borders. In this context, some may recall a case in which the German government succumbed to the pressures of Turkey and authorized a lawsuit against an entertainer who had spoken disrespectfully about the President of Erdogan. This decision is generally thought to have been highly regarded for the German government and for its freedom of expression. The decision of the German government was based on laws that apply in that country and included punishment for dishonoring foreign rulers or kingdoms. Then, a debate arose in various European countries on the rights of such laws. That, in fact, was from that point on. as my idea of this matter arose, at least some members of the council received e - mails that brought attention to such legal issues in other countries. At that time, the assessment was conducted by the European Security and Cooperation Agency, in cooperation with the International Press Institute in Vienna, on legislation on the protection of foreign heads. Thus, it cannot be said that this is just some Icelandic eccentricity. Rather, it is an international organization that is mapping and observing talk about freedom of expression that draws attention to this in many parts of the world. I'd like to mention that it is not just out of freedom of speech that I consider this important matter and that it offers. Not only is it because I believe people should be able to speak freely, even to a little bit ill about foreign heads if they so invite them to look, but simply because I feel that heads are supposed to have general laws, such as the rest of the common people. There are laws to deal with if people hurt people who are mad. I feel that such laws apply to foreign heads as well. It is more extreme to avoid offending foreign princes, i.e. Up to six years in prison, if large, as shown in the Law article I read earlier. This is in my mind, on the other hand, an expression of freedom of speech, but it is also a universal law of justice in which all are under the same rules when it comes to how to speak of them. In 2002 the European Court of Human Rights passed a sentence in the French daily Le Monde case, which ruled that a national ruler's special protection was unnecessary in a democracies society. Following this sentence, the Icelandic jurists expressed doubts that it could be judged by the 95th paragraph. The penalties in light of Article 10. European Convention of Human Rights. As I said before, there are very, very hard laws hidden in the 95th grade. a general penalties to taunt foreign kingdoms, princes, or national symbols, such as flags. It is then specified that the embassy is forbidden to attack by violence or to cause property damage on the embassy or its property. The law that stands on the watch of a decent foreign ruler has rarely been used here on the land, and even more frequently, court decisions have fallen on their foundation. However, the few have been least a country to please. Thus, author Thorberg, Þórðarson, was sentenced to call Adolf Hitler a blood dog and made St. Steinarr for dishonoring the swastika flag of the German Nazi party. It is safe to say that the story was soft - minded about that crime. Before I go to the latter part of the law, while I'm still talking about what turns toward heads and peoples, I want to mention another example that is recent and shows that this is actually a living law code. In 2012, four individuals who participated in protests outside the Russian embassy for the treatment of Russian authorities on the members of the band Pussy Riot were charged with this law. It was so late last year that they individuals received an announcement that the investigation was terminated. So it's all been used. Then we come to the second part of the law, which is particularly about property records on the embassy. It is a monasteries that was added to the law in 2002. On that same winter, three young men had been reported guilty, and later they were judged on the basis of the 95th grade. penalties for throwing a gas bomb at the U.S. embassy. In my day, it seemed very strange to me to judge according to that understanding. To me, throwing a fuel bomb, not an insult to a ruler or a flag, is simply a completely different kind of law that should be charged on a completely different basis. An attempt to induce arson or to endanger people's lives and limbs. I wondered, though, that the decision to accuse the act on the basis of the law of insults to foreign states and heads of state led to the addition of this scandal to the general penalty. As I think the first section of the law is totally unnecessary, because we have a general law that turns to hurt people, we have other laws in the laws that deal with vandalism and arson. So I believe that this legal arrangement is totally unnecessary and, in effect, worse than that, is simply bad, because it limits freedom of expression in a totally unnecessary way. That's why we transport it to the bill. All is three. We're making the third move. I hope we can finish it now at this council. With these words, I suggest that the case be referred to. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u109	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Steinunn's Þóra for introducing to us this bill to legalize the change of civil law. I wondered, " Why is it merely a matter of killing a 95th paragraph? ' ... away. There are other laws in this law that also call attention to the senator who stands here, e.g. 94 st. as well as 97rd par. Penalties. Ninety-four. referred to a section of penal code involving killing, depravity and delinquency, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ If an act of punishment is added to XXIII., XXIV. or XXV. The law of these two men, directed to the princes of a foreign state or its agents in this land, may increase the punishment of those involved in the offense, and may be added up to half of it. Whether this is a law that is natural in modern times, it is particularly suggested that additional punishment be involved in such serious offenses if it is directed to princes or ambassadors of another State. Also, I wondered if those who take this excellent bill wondered about the 97 regulations. ... asfor Ministers to agree on this matter. Maybe I'll get in on it better in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u110	The president reminds us that it should always be addressed or mentioned to other members of the council by full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for a good question in this counter, why is it suggested only to be 95th. ... aa law of law is to be dismissed. In short, it is to answer that the fire was what I was referring to, this case, that came up in Germany, followed by an e - mail that was brought to the attention of the members of Congress, especially to this expression of freedom of speech as the 95th gr. applies to each other. That's actually the short answer, that's why. However, I feel that it is proper and reasonable to consider all of this in the general law of law, and that was a fine example. A senator mentioned in his language, so I was open to continue my views on this section of the law. But I suspect that it would call for even more discussion, so I would like us to start putting this law out, for this matter has taken a considerable discussion in the community as well as in here at the council. However, there is no point in preventing us from continuing with a legal arrangement that I think is quite time - consuming in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u112	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir That's a huge Steinunn named Árnadóttir Adjond for this answer, and he apologized for lying to his father's name. This may be because of the case. A senator referred to, i.e. The protests outside the Russian embassy that took place less than six years ago, to which one wondered about the intervention of Ministers. In this case it was not found that the investigation would be canceled, but it simply made up that apparently in the Ministry, a drawer of the minister for over five years while these four individuals, if those were four, had the defendant's position. Of course, that is unacceptable. You wonder if this is an acceptable treatment for people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u113	Mr. President. No, it can't be fun being hanging in the defendant's position for years, it can't be. Of course, this law has special significance that it is, in fact, the Ministry of Justice or the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice to decide the progress of the case. Now I'm going to let myself guess. I can't know for sure, but I have a feeling that this is the case because it's a matter of speaking in foreign languages in this country, I think it's the connection and the explanation for why this is happening. Still, I find that an amazing arrangement. At least part of that, we would get rid of it by breaking out the law. However, as we discussed earlier, we need to examine all of this chapter on the outcome. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u114	Mr. President. I'm going to thank you. paritaprevir For the talk and for the missionaries, the Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadotir for making this interesting suggestion. I have to say, when reading the bill, which may not be long, and in the report, I find it difficult to agree. I also admit that I may not know much about such matters, but I notice that this matter has been presented before the council. About a year ago, or March 2017, a statement from the State Department came in on a bill that, if I understand correctly, is absolutely comparable to the bill we have here. Commenting on the State Department of State, it is stated that its attitude is primarily based on national commitments, including those involved. in the 1961 International Convention on a political relationship. In fact, the Ministry's position is that, as a result of a good argument, it's not time to remove the 95th grade. a general penalties in view of their commitments. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament, whether she and the representatives of this proposal have reviewed the authority of the State Department and wondered if there is any other way to achieve the purpose set out in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for a good question. Yeah, I read that review. Actually, I wasn't in trouble. The General and Education Committee last time the case was submitted, so I did not observe the discussions on this subject on the Committee. Despite this review, to answer why the matter is being presented unchanged, I think the Ministry is mistaken, simply disagrees with the review. On the one hand, it contradicts the European Court of Human Rights with an example of judgment given here from 2002 that the protection of a ruler is unnecessary in a democratic society. However, I felt that the State Department's review was, in effect, about the late 95th part. ... which I made here as a special topic of talk, about what turns to property damage on the embassy and that we have a commitment to protect those who come here as spokesmen of other nations. I simply think that if it is so that their safety is not guaranteed enough, then it should only be done in other laws. It is more important to stress the general law than that this is out of place in this law and to say, in effect, that there would be further evidence that this later addition to the law from 2002 is simply in the wrong place in the legal library. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I just reiterate what I said earlier, I find this interesting bill, in many respects it is easy to agree with what is presented in the report. I got it. I got it. The General and Education Committee, which will get the bill on a cover to cover it well, of course, ask for and do well, because, of course, I don't want us to violate any kind of national agreements we've made. Surely we must have a responsibility to keep our territory safe and ambassadors safe.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u117	Mr. President. It seems more convenient that the one sitting here is now attending this council at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. It is by no means likely that this very thing will be discussed in the Committee. I just look forward to following this case and reasoning about it, if they have to make things better somewhere else, how we can do it, but at the same time have the opportunity to describe my doubts that it may not be necessary, at least not at this point in the common penalties. But now the matter goes out, and the committee, of course, examines it as most sides.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u118	V.E.G. President. I'm not that opposed to this bill. I love freedom of expression. I can tell you what. A senator that I was defending one of the men who threw a gasoline bomb into the American embassy back then, and I fought at the back and back of my head for freedom of expression. I even won the case in the province, but I lost 4:1 in the Supreme Court. But I'm pretty sure I'll be Steinunn. Árnadóttir It's a little more selective than my choice of free expression. This enveloped 95 C.E.r. says that the penalty for dishonoring a foreign people and heads of state is an act of contempt, as well as another law in penalties, 233 C.E. a, accepts the fact that someone is being mocked because of his nationality. I'm asking why. A senator whether it was just okay with it, because I'm preparing a bill to take it out, and ready to be with me on such a bill - so that the freedom of expression can be properly enjoyed, which I consider very important. It seems to me that courts interpreted this article to me that freedom of expression is very dangerous. That's why I'm asking if it's a good idea. A senator must be willing to take that article down as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u119	Madam President. It's a nice story. It was heard in the opposite direction. A senator who had another life as a lawyer before starting his service here at the General Assembly. In my opinion, this is a fine point as hell. A senator here wonders about freedom of expression and the limit of freedom of speech, what may and what may not be. Yeah, I suspect we're not on the exact page there. I believe more factors need to be taken into account, especially when it comes to people of minorities or of vulnerable groups; that they may need protection in the law. But the evidence is not at all relevant to national leaders who are, as is the words: silent, leaders, and thus in positions of authority in the community but, as the law is prepared, are an extra protection than others in the community. I thought it might be better for them to wonder if this should be the other way around, even thinking that members of a minority would have some extra protection than national leaders would not need to hold their positions for their own sake.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u120	V.E.G. President. I think national leaders are a great minority. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course, I'm just trying to help you out because I want us to be a little consistent. I'm afraid so, like 233. gr. a has been explained, that it limits the freedom of expression too much. I'm not quite against the possible protection of special minorities. But these are not all minorities. It also speaks of a foreign nation. Can the senator agree with me that at least we need to review that law? Especially in view of the judgments that have been made in which virtually nothing can be said.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u121	Madam President. I'm not as good at everything in the general penal code as I think it is. A senator and a lawyer stay. [[Up front.]] But I have no objection to researching and examining 233rdrd paragraph. a, which I admit I don't know at all, let alone I know all the judgments that have fallen by her. I'm very open to examine it, but I can't say in advance about the conclusions I would make in that case. It continues that there is a very important prince in these matters that sensitive groups have protection in the law, but those in positions of authority do not need protection at all, nor do they need to think that more severe punishment is an offense or an insult.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u122	Madam President. I want to celebrate this bill and declare my firm support of its content and content. Rulers have long been inclined to use their power to limit public expression and speech freedom. This bill is one of many steps that we need so that we can enjoy the real freedom of expression here on Fonón. Yet, there are many steps that have preceded. In 1991 these words were found in general penal law, by permission of a president: ▪ Any person who engages in shameful speech, other insults in words or actions, or defamatory objections to a government employee during his duty, or with him or with him or with him, should be punished for fines, imprisonment, or prisons up to 3 years. Although proven indiscriminately, in terms of fines, it is offered in an unauthorized way. The journalist Thygeir the Þorgeir of Þorgeirson was accused and convicted in the Supreme Court on the basis of this law, then 108.g. General penal law, 1987. As a result, Þorgeir had been accused of writing two newspaper articles on police violence, even calling the police. uniformed wild animals called for an independent police surveillance agency to set up something that is still missing. In 1992 the European Court of Human Rights concluded that the conviction was not needed in a democratic state and that the case of the European State was violated against Article 10. European Convention of Human Rights. In fact, many of the subsequent judgments made by the European Court of Human Rights have concluded that public employees and persons should be more likely to expect an unsatisfactory, even unfair, unpleasant, or exaggerated comments about themselves and their jobs than those of the common city. So it would be unnatural for them to receive special protection from being offended, rather than from others. It's coming even. in the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in the Le Monde case against France, mentioned in the report on this bill. Despite this clear order of the European Court of Human Rights, there are still special laws that can be found in the penalties for the added protection, of foreign heads, in this country, in excess of other individuals. This is a law that has a significant inhibitory effect on the public discussion of persons who are truly public, so it can be expected that the public in this country as well as elsewhere would freely comment on them and their work. This is a law suggested in the existing bill to remove from general penalties. This is what it says, with President's permission: ▪ Anyone who publicly dishonors a foreign nation or a foreign state, its chief ruler, its ruler, its flag, or other recognition national flag... will be found guilty or imprisoned up to 2 years. - In fact, it can be raised for six years, if because of a lot. - ▪ Any who shame publicly or otherwise commit shame, other insults in words or actions, or in any other act, shall suffer any similar penalty against other employees of a foreign state who are in this country. This is how it is, despite the fact that in the judgment of Le Monde against France, it has been observed that there was no basis for princes to receive special protection when it came to their defamatoryness. Such a law influences public discussion and leads to the self - examination of those who express their will regarding the work and character of foreign rulers. Consider a relatively recent example. On January 21, 2017, the person standing here said by permission of the President: I am concerned that the president of the United States is Fascist, misogynist, and racist. The next day it hit. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason's statement goes down in the morning radio on the U.S.V., by permission of President: I think that's too much. We can disagree with all the things he says and all that he does. But we do not call the U.S. heads of state... a democratically elected president, Fascist. So I enjoyed the Constitution of the Parliament against having to suffer the consequences of my statement under the above 95th grade. a general penal law. Indeed, in a public field, I made a statement that brought shame to many people as to the greatest U.S. Ruler. Yet, there are only 63 of us enjoying this assembly weekend at one time. Thus, it is reasonable to assume that all others who had made this statement appear in a public field in Icelandic jurisdiction would have been drawn to a charge for describing a similar attitude and memory. Of course, this would be a case of the overpowering use of government in the public opinion of the common citizen of other countries. The existence of these laws and the use of them affects social talk. They make self - examination, and they have to change. Here I spoke of removing the 95th grade. general penalties would be a step in the right direction to ensure true freedom of expression in this country, but they are few steps we will take to ensure that the freedom of expression in Iceland is often limited, both by law and by any other authority of power. First, there is the law against which the hour was set because of its discussion of questionable financial transactions. The secretary of finance, Bjarni, the son of Benediktsson, led the bank crash while he was serving as a member of the Senate. The County Court of Reykjavík has issued a sentence that the ban on government officials violates rights to express, has had an unusual effect on free and enlightened elections, and has undermined free expression by the media. Yet, the ban is still in effect, and it in itself has a cool effect on public discussions. In fact, the effect might be said to be at a freezing level, as the hour cannot still convey the information and may not be expressed according to the current power system. Piratars have recommended a bill to make a legal decision on the media coverage of the county media, which have shown that they will take no note whether conditions for impaired expression are met or not, and that we will place it in the hands of courts that in recent years have done better and better in the protection of expression in Iceland, including the U.S.A. Following repeated judgments and errors of the European Court of Human Rights. The case is in operation at the General Assembly and I encourage all members of Congress to pay the bill's route through the council and give it their support, their freedom of expression. We also know, Madam President, that the current legal environment allows the media to spend large sums of money on pricing costs that have been funded by money sources for reporting or reporting that they do not like. The purpose of the charge is far from there to ever winning the case. Even the matter is known to be lost, but it is the only means to earn money from the media, to tire them out, and to punish them for informing the public about the indiscriminate efforts of power. The reason for this pay is that even high legal expenses are too often for courts who judge the cost of lawsuits, so the media are on the verge of paying high legal expenses from their own pockets, despite even totally unsatisfactory lawsuits on the part of the plaintiff. Pirats intend to react to this exact obstacle in the way of expression of freedom by making a prime project over the next few days because the legal environment this has an impact on the social debate and freedom of expression in this country. Until it is fixed, there is no true freedom of expression. Then there are the cooling effects that other forms of authority power can have on freedom of expression and public discussion. A fine example of this was an indirect threat to the past. The head of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, in front of VOLV, suggested that the Agency's improved news report might result in a reduction of funds for the next budget. Another example is that of Vigdís's platoon brother. paritaprevir The Sigmunds of Gunnlaugsson Gunalson, in leading the last election to prepare for a three - press lawsuit because of their financial discussion with his and his wife following the publication of the Panama Documents, including due to poorness. A senator resented not having received an apology for the discussion. Hv. A senator is a strong man, and it is easy to deal with the same issue that other wealthy people often do when they do not like the news media. Not particularly hidden, that force. Examples of direct and indirect threats to powerful individuals to the media, of continued information to the public on certain issues, are much more, Madam President. Is it in itself a quest for democratic values in society? They are designed to have a cool effect on the social talk. And as cold as it is, the effects of threats, shorts, and problems with powerful people can have on the language and freedom of the people of the country to express their feelings about their community and those who have caused it. I remember, for example. The faults of the former chairman of the Board of Directors and Commission, why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son to the individuals who called for publication would be the names of those who had recommended Robert Downeyr's reputation, which he said, by permission of the president: ▪ What about who it is and why? The only reason for doing so is for those who want to hit them at the highest rate. In fact, I ask myself, " Was my suspicions based on these charges? ' A senator, who speaks of the cause of silenced unpleasant talk, silenced the public's demand for information, the taking of the public into public discussion about his community. Finally, when lawyers and seated senators suggest that they practice delinquency, which claim that public figures have committed criminal cases, they are suspected to investigate the grounds for study. These words were rendered in a way that the law in this country is not equal to everyone and that is just an excellent example of how the world's greatest rulers enjoy a better justice than the average citizen. The head of the largest political party in the country calls attention to the fact that the one represented here will be held accountable by the Council's Board for participating in a general political debate that has certainly been discussed before, which is perfect and in the context of the objects perfectly in accordance with a national judicial action, on the contrary. Councilmen have suggested my comment on the Sign of the National Issue of Silfra from yesterday. This is not to be said, they say in a choir, and speak under a rose of the consequences of the comments. This has a cool effect. Because if I'm not to be allowed to express myself freely in the community that I share in molding in this field, without being hidden and not so secretive as to threats of the consequences of my words, how dare the public express themselves publicly about those who cause without fear of the consequences of their words? Those who don't enjoy the holiday weekend? The answer is simple: Fear exists and it is distressing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u123	A respectable president. I'm not gonna take this far. I just wanted to say something very brief, as I usually do when these cases come to an end, that the freedom of expression in Iceland has never been in good shape. We are not the first to speak of freedom of expression. We're very back. In fact, I'm going to make it wait for a better time to go over the many matters that have to be fixed here on the country. But I wanted to come up here and thank you. transporters of this bill for providing it. It's very important. And there are many more things to be revised in public penalties. I hope she continues this seemingly impassable practice that we go to pick out one and one crazy thing in a universal penal code that has to do with people's rights of expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u124	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to present this matter tonight. From time to time, it has been recommended in this hall, I understand that this is the fourteen times recommended for this good and more important matter. It's a lot of other things. Sometimes the stone needs to be hammered, and good things often happen slowly. I thank them. Congress members who made it a point to support the discussion now. The couriers of this case, with me, are why. The members of Steinunn Árnadóttir, the Lilja of Eyjafy Magnúsdóttir, the daughter of Hildardóttir Heils, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eel, the Weekendun the Hrafn of Gunnarsson, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir the daughter of Avvar, and Oddný Harðardóttir Hardborndddóttir. Many comments on the importance of this subject and in a language that is often read on the report, the matter gets groovy, and becomes better and better. I'm not going to destabilize myself by reading everything, not the whole story or the report, but by referring to the information that has been distributed. However, by permission of the president, I would like to quote the report in several important places. There are many reasons for this good speech. Studying how this language has been handled is very interesting. The development of nuclear weapons on a peaceful basis is well considered in all parts of the world. It says, by permission of the President: However, most countries recognize the threat of such weapons and reject the theory of mutual terror, which has long come out of date if ever applied. In this regard, we can point to the judgment of the International Court of Justice in Hague regarding the use of nuclear weapons and its threat. The Court concluded that it is in 1992 - and I looked to it as if I didn't break plastic - not only did the use of nuclear weapons violate international law but also threats or threaten to use it against another state. The rational support of the court is that for weapons to be considered legitimate, there will be the advantage of direct exposure to military targets only and not to civilians. However, the nature of nuclear weapons is such that their application will always bite civilians, as well as have a negative environmental impact that results in even greater harm to civilians. The same evidence is given based on the fact that neutral areas should always be respected, but nuclear weapons are that their application cannot be ruled out as if it were also affecting the population and the environment of neutral areas. Finally, the International Court believes that the nations of the world are obliged to negotiate total nuclear disarmament under strict international supervision. A respectable president. This is not some vision of a future peace - loving senator at the High General Assembly of the Icelanders. Rather, it is the judgment of the International Court of Hague. In addition, many international covenants, such as the Geneva Convention and others, state that at least in the Teori, I ask a respectable president to excuse the sledge, should be armed to direct them toward the specified targets, but they do not affect the entire environment. We've been talking here about cluster bombs and other things that this applies to. This is for the world all the big, important stuff. We talked about the other day about a ban on the use of nuclear weapons. That's where we're participating in international cooperation and suggest it. Here we may be looking a little closer to the environment. There is no need to look at the point where the declaration of peace for nuclear weapons is available for Icelanders, such as for all other nations, a vast environment. It is time to consider that nuclear weapons are the threat of the environment that we and the whole world are facing. I don't think any member of the Allied Council of Iceland would be opposed because with any possible means of preventing an accident from occurring in the vicinity of Iceland from handling or transporting nuclear weapons. We can imagine what could happen here if nuclear waste, nuclear vehicles, and nuclear weapons were treated in Iceland's waters and accidents. Imagine how we would be affected as a fishing nation if radioactive material were to come into the environment around the sea! Thus, it is a self - righteous point, though not otherwise, to ban all sailings or nuclear - powered vehicles up to the country. As I entered this case, this case has been delivered thirteen times before, this is a 14th time. But I think the move is more important now than often before and not just because I'm the 1st transporter, but because we've seen it in recent years that evolution is in a negative direction. It is not as if the whole world is agreeing that the use of nuclear weapons is bad and that we have every option to prevent it, but the use of nuclear weapons has come to the same level as a normal choice in disputes; certainly serious, everyone is aware of it, but all of a sudden he is back on the table as one of the options. That is a change from what used to be. Great nations with huge nuclear weapons, such as the United States have become involved in renewing their weapons cages, making nuclear bombs smaller, and more accessible, which means that they can be exported with more vehicles and elsewhere. I think it was always important, but it's particularly important now. I now especially hope that the matter will be resolved. I think all members of Congress are at ease. The General wants to prevent some kind of nuclear accident from being on land or in Iceland. In 2011, the General Assembly adopted national security policies for Iceland. There, that will was clearly expressed. The committee was appointed in 2011, but later the national security policy was adopted, the proposal was returned to the minister of foreign affairs in 2014, and a few years ago this national security policy was adopted. Why am I referring to national security policy? Yes, because it says in number 10. To Iceland and Iceland, as well as to national immunity, is a peace of mind for nuclear weapons, taking into account international commitments, with the intention of promoting disarmament and peace of Iceland on the part of the European Union. Again - this is not the dream of those who want to walk or of those who have spent decades fighting nuclear weapons. This is Iceland's approved national security policy. I have a great deal of hope that this will be approved now and especially because the government of the left green, independent party and forward group especially refers to the government covenant in a controversial and approved national security policy. The Constitution says, on the basis of security and development, by permission of the president: Iceland's National Security Policy adopted by the Council will be guided. So I have the hope that this case will succeed. I mentioned earlier that we've been talking, if I remember correctly last week, about the prohibition on nuclear weapons, here maybe we'd be looking a little closer. I'd like to mention that in other cases people have been looking even closer. This is where we watch the whole country and its territory. The fact is that all rural areas in Iceland, except three, have agreed to a conclusion, agree that their country has peaceed before treatment and the round of nuclear weapons. The three rural areas that haven't done it are a Smokeytown, a Skull-pulls and Grimines and Graffiti platform. They all see it in their hands, both audiences and viewers, that if Iceland, all of the rural areas of the country, apart from these three societies, is declared at peace, half won and even more. I'd just like to end up in my language, quoting a meeting of the Reykjavík National Committee on Environment and Health, where the proposed proposal was adopted on February 14, 2002, 16 years ago, and two weeks ago. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Traffic and storage of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons in Reykjavík. Again pronounced Kolbeinn Francis Proppé's proposal: Therefore, the Environment and Health Committee refers to the mayor's approval that the urban population will be at peace with traffic and storage of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, in accordance with the approval of Ablition 2000 for rural society. The proposal is included in the report.◯ In this regard, many of us have been working at various fronts for a long time and not leaning on anyone when I say that when it comes to rural society, the union of the military opposers actually pulled the wagon there and showed complete initiative in these matters. A respectable president. I have great hope that the case will now become a law. Good things often need to be discussed. We have discussed many matters here, both in this room and outside. Iceland's independence is a matter that came to mind that was proposed year after year, decades before they became reality. So many offers of speech can be beneficial. As I've traced here, the drop has broken the stone in various ways. We have come toward this in many areas. Once we've brought this into our national security policy, when our societies, all but three, have peace-declared their territory, there's nothing left but a legal fixation, to legalize this, i.e. that Iceland will be at peace with nuclear weapons and the traffic of nuclear - powered vehicles will be banned. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. I suggest that the case be referred to. Foreign Affairs and 2nd. I hope the committee will adopt the bill for good and thorough inspection. I hope we make it legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u125	Madam President. In all sense, I agree completely with this case and its goals, yet I prefer a single word missing the definition of the bill's report, it's become a micronucleus complex. Transport is prohibited from this or the release of nuclear materials. I may agree to forbid their release, but the problem is that I feel that this word is missing because I expect this is what is called in English, by permission of presidents, from the English menu, i.e. substances that can sustain nuclear decay spontaneously are sufficient. But my fear is that, on the one hand, it might be understood, so it could be about any subject that would be possible to break the core. Which would be about all the material, including ourselves, that I don't expect to be the goal. But as well as it's the fact that I'm just not familiar with this kind of nuclear physics to be judgmental of it. However, it may also be surprising to forbid some of the chemicals produced in the nuclear reactor used by these radionuclides, which are often used for medical purposes or for other purposes. Now I know that there are considerable laws in Iceland on the handling of radioactive materials, I don't know all its details, but I just want to be sure that this isn't the case by hand banning all materials or at least all the materials that could be used for medical purposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u126	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says he's not well enough in nuclear physics, but that's me. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] No, I beg your pardon, I'm not, too, a respectable president. I just thank you. This is the tip of a senator. I assure you, neither I nor any other carriers of this bill want to have some bickering about definitions and probings. The Foreign Affairs Committee to consider this matter. However, I notice that in a paper with the bill, because of that. A senator quoted to 9. ... if I understood it correctly, we will focus primarily on the disposal of radioactive waste, which is in late 9th. ... but it's the bill itself, spoken of, by President's permission: ▪ All traffic vehicles carrying nuclear wastes or nuclear wastes are banned within the peace - related territory. However, the regulations of Article 10. In the 10th. it is specifically granted to provide an exception for peaceful traffic. To some extent, if material was used for peaceful purposes, such as a medical purpose, I would think that it would only have to sharpen the wording so that it would, of course, fall under the 9th rule. which is in 10. par., or that it simply needs to sharpen the 9th paragraph.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u127	Madam President. That's fine. Our understanding is probably similar. We just need to watch this. I'll do my best to make sure that this is the right thing to do with the State Department. I'm not gonna delay this any more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-02-27-30.u128	A respectable president. I don't want to let it pass for a few words about this good bill to legalize Iceland's nuclear declaration of peace and no nuclear-powered vehicles driving in the vicinity of Iceland, i.e. Iceland and airspace within 12 miles. Thank you. paritaprevir Kololin's Óttarsson Proppér for measuring this bill and can hardly hide my admiration for the people who call attention to the evil devices that nuclear power can be, although it is also new for peaceful purposes, we can not forget it. I'd also like to use this opportunity to call attention to a proposal for a hearing presented here a few days ago. A moving man was a bit of a problem. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra of the Árnadóttir; that is the same well, a suggestion that we join in the United Nations Convention on the ban on nuclear weapons. Hv. In his excellent review, a senator noted that this was not quite the first time recommended for this bill or similar. This would be a fourteenth time. Surprisingly, this peaceful nation has no more trouble with its rivers. Icelanders in general are peaceable, although there are now some things that must be done for the second time, mostly out of control with one another. We've been over this all along. This has been part of the local community. Theoretically, most rural societies in the country have agreed to such an agreement. I think the nations of the world, if we can say so, the people of the world, are as we are, each one of us, afraid of this equipment, and would like to sound it down and take this equipment out of the museum of the nations. However, there are often national leaders or governments of various nations that do not compromise. This is part of the infamous armed forces of the nations. This is how we are still primitive in our relationship with each other. Yet, an entire continent, such as Africa, as shown in a fine report, has agreed and accepted this agreement, many years ago. These desires are growing into the heart of fish, they are more on the edge of these rivers, those who fight for peace, they fight to sound weapons, and these brutal weapons. I mention ICAN, an international organization, as suggested in a proposal for interpretation. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, who has fought for the destruction of land mines, biological weapons, and toxic armies. These groups, these forces, are growing in respect and trust. This group, this international group, is now inducing Nóbel Peacekeepers in 2017. I agree with what. A senator who hopes that this bill will achieve its full development here at the council, get a discussion on committees, and come back to a discussion, and be approved. We are sending messages to the world, messages to our day, messages to our nation. We're also sending messages to our children. That's why I support my mind on this bill.
