ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Central Party acting chairman that Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, cannot be assigned to the Senate in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Central Party Arts of the Northeast takes up residence. "Griggrim Sigmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u2	The Book of The Primers, the Þorgrímur of Sigmundsson, has already been investigated and approved, but he has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly and is therefore under oath to the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u3	Sigmundsson's mask has signed his commitment to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u4	To answer, health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers and social and equality ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u5	Mr. President. The signature of yesterday's international mental - health program: The mental health of young people during times of depravity. While much water has flowed to the sea in mental health during the past few decades, there are many offenders and too many young people in Iceland are not well. According to the recent research of surgeons, 7% of high school boys and 12% of girls have tried suicide - not considered suicide, tops. Minister, rather than attempt to end his life. These are probably some 2,000 youths. In addition, about one third of college students recommend depression and suicide as the leading cause of death among men under 25 years of age in Iceland. Pills with psychiatric diagnosis also increase rapidly and are now about 38% of all microorganisms. We need to stand with these people. Young people are constantly told to seek help, but then we also need to make sure that they are easy and accessible and that help is there for us. So I ask the highest. Minister: What plans exist for making mental - health services more accessible and inexpensive, especially for our young ones? I ask if it was investigated or identified what it would save the community to subsidize psychological services, especially in the light of a rapid increase in micromath by mental examination. Finally, I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister will use the legalization of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people to become reality. Councilman Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson has appointed the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u6	A respectable president. I'm gonna start with that end where it's broke. A senator finished and thanked him for the question. Regarding the legal agreement of the United Nations on the rights of disabled people, I feel that in politics, it is important to me that we are thus in tune to a single value from where good ideas come from. In addition, it is specifically discussed in the government covenant to ensure both legalization and the implementation of the agreement. I think it's the taking of the job. The senator is a good and important man, and he will add my weights to the scales that the General will complete the case in this session. I don't have a welfare committee, but I have an open connection. A respectable president. In general, in regard to my mental health, I came home last night by a two - day conference held in London, with the initiative of the British government, but with the arrival of OECD and the World Health Organization, under the heading "ECD in Mental Health in the 21st century. " There, representatives of 60 countries came, and it is safe to say that Iceland works well in comparison with countries that are working out of mental illness and that people with a mental illness are dressed or locked up in cages. Still, we all have to do better, and we all aim to see that human rights are more guided by every mental - health service, that is so important, and that we bring our mental - health services closer to the people, so to speak, by improving our teamwork on health care and by the care of psychiatrists. This is now in harmony with a mental - health program adopted by the Council by a special 650 billion. K. The earmarked this support of the health care facility as a proposal for financial gain.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u7	Mr. President. One of the main objectives of the government on health care was said to increase the availability of patients to a broad range of mental - health services. 650 million. K. The overall increase in the seminary simply is not enough to improve the availability, increase the number of psychologists in health, education institutions, and prisons, as has been called, or subsidize psychological services. Young people who are as serious as young people are must not be classed as predominantly. The union, and indeed all the rest of the classes in this room, will come with great urgency to meet the need that really exists in the community. Well, let's at least... Show, as we did two or three days ago, when we broke through the council a controversial bill, that we can meet one of the most serious problems facing the Icelandic nation. That's not going to happen to us, chief. Minister. The minister may offer you more money, and we will agree with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u8	And so are we.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u9	A respectable president. Only again will the United Nations deal on the rights of disabled people. It must be our common goal that the implementation of the contract is guaranteed and the best way to ensure that this is the way we want to go. Just so they say. Of course, there are various forms of depression, so to speak, but I view the matter as a suggestion. A senator's main concern is to ensure the implementation of the contract in the community. On the other hand, the question arises. Senator on the suicide issues. Now it was happening in Britain that a special minister was being appointed who was only supposed to discuss suicide because of the severity of that part of mental illness. In Iceland we have a suicide plan, i.e. We have received conclusions from a very powerful group of people who made those suggestions for me. In short, I have agreed to all the suggestions presented there, and they can be found on the Ministry's Web. [[The president calls.]] I've already tried as hard as I can to give them wings with capitalism.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u10	Mr. President. Discussion of child rearing might be more intense. But our role as a child is one of the most difficult roles in life, and I know that many parents have called for increased training on good parenting. Recently, I heard an interview at RU with Baldvin Z., the author of the picture, let me fall where he said, by permission of a president: ▪ I'm going to do a good job as my father. It has to be said that the upbringing and interaction between parents and children, as well as the relationship of children with other models, such as sports coaches, master of employment, etc., has not been aggravated when the increase in drug abuse among youths has been discussed, not to mention the media, music videos, and the influence of a group of friends. Yet, in 1829 the magazine A year - old at the General Assembly discussed the upbringing of the time. One farmer describes his children's upbringing, saying, by permission of a president: Then I've beaten them like fish, so it's not my fault that they're both yearning and capricious. Happily, the second century, I hope so, and today researchers have identified the ways of parents in three categories: the leading parents, the shiped and disciplined parents, the permissive and disintegrating parents. A study of parental parenting has identified ways that are considered important to reduce the risk of substance abuse, depression, behavioral problems, and other factors that could enhance a positive sense of identity, improve communication ability, improve belief in one's own skills, and, thereby, improve feeling and mental well - being. V.E.G. Secretary of health. That's exactly why one of the measures of public health policy, that's why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, then prime minister, began work with the Committee for Public Health and Health, published 2016, for parenting, that all the prospective parents and parents of children at age six and under have the opportunity to attend training courses for all young and baby protection around the country. The course should be arranged before the end of 2018. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether or not the intention is to live up to the role of the policy that leads to parental training courses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I wrote down from her these three kinds of foreigners, leading, organized, and indulgent. I think these are also three types of government, if it goes to that point, because the best way to create a change, whether in training or in politics, is to follow through in a good example and a leading way. It is not only in the public health policy but also in a mental - health program that is addressed specifically on parenting and education and the way to make young people lock their emotions and feelings, etc., while supporting parents and school - because they need villages to raise a child - to help them, as possible, that children are able to read their own feelings, they can express it, etc. and parents receive the support they need to hold their people. For the exact duration of this procedure. A senator asks about it is something I need to consider, since it is expected to be in cooperation with other advisers. Although a public health plan is at the scene of a surgeon's office, according to the definition, this is, as a means of understanding, a joint project. In part, we are handling these matters in connection with maternal protection. Now there is a special focus in the Presidency Programme of the Council of Human Rights, the first thousand days of life, emphasised on holding the arms of the first thousand days of the child, the first three years of real life, and the training conditions and extracurricular development, under the leadership of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. The study period, as well as public - health policies, has been at the health - care center for 15 to520 years. All you have to do is get them all over the country. Raising children and young people is a concern. We see this almost daily on newspaper statements and news reports that paint a striking picture of human life that needs to be improved. Such headlines can be seen: Add children to a worse situation than before. No more cases related to domestic violence. Dozens of bacteria go to domestic peace. The witness is in a doer who says that he may once have been violent, but he does not want to be like his mother or father. A ROV reported on a study that suggested that violence, neglect, and abuse could affect diseases later in life. These reports tell us a story about the need to react and prevent young people from having problems in their lives. There are many factors that can influence children and young people not to get involved in drugs and drugs and to emphasize them. [[The president calls.]] Everyone needs to gather together and help with the work. That's why I've prepared a seminar. Monday night at the Golf Club of Kopavogs and Gardentown, where the headline is: From among the young from drugs [[The president calls.]] - What can we do? What can we learn? Welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u13	A respectable president. A recent development center on health care is a field that actually centers on ensuring that national knowledge and development of health care will reach every corner of health care, especially across the country. I trust that in the spirit we've been working on, and I agree with what has been said before that, of course, such work should be across all political categories, improving prevention and public health, and also adding money to mental health in general, it will clearly be part of what the developing center is to see to it that it will be done, i.e. ensures that knowledge and methodology are at the end of the country. But I have reason to believe that these matters are not merely won in the capital area but are being guaranteed abroad. I think it's a question why. A senator gives me a special look.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u14	A respectable president. Recently, all of us saw the news program Hick, and we felt a deep sense of compassion for victims in the programs that have been exposed to cheating and stealing. Of course, it is distressing to all of us. So I direct that question to the highest level. Social Affairs Ministers, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, if we don't have to do something about it. I know he's set up a team, but like the head of a professional network committee, why. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, attended a discussion on the activities of the council yesterday, needs more. That is why I wondered, " Should I not put in a law against more severe penalties when someone is stolen? ' It is natural to steal when collective agreements are unrecognized and people are not paid that we have negotiated for them. Don't we have to work harder on that? The labor movement has included calling for someone to intervene in some way that she has any tools and tools other than talking to people about paying. So often the only conclusion is that people get part of what they owe and then nothing more.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry, as well as for a good discussion at a joint meeting of the welfare committee and the employment committee yesterday. As mentioned in the case, the case was discussed in the case of the king. There's a senator. We're having a conversation, including... to the labor movement and to the labour market party, both sides, about making changes in this situation. To this end, we make a formal communication between these individuals, including the two. will attack integrated monitoring activities. There's more of the people here, and here comes the police, and there's the Department of Business, and there's the Ministry of Economics and other people. Part of that work is whether there is any reason to sharpen legislation more than has been done because we agreed on law in the last summer that went to employees and chain guarantees. Part of this is also to discuss whether there is no reason to resort to more intense repairs against such offenses. V.E.G. Industrial and tourism minister put in writing some ideas in the Morning newspaper about the last weekend that turned, including to the building market. The labor movement has some ideas, and I think that by talking there, we are discussing what action to take and how to act. I found it, and I found it during discussions both on welfare committees and on the employment committees yesterday and in a Senate hall and everywhere in the community that we do. That's what we're supposed to do, and that's why the government is working but in good cooperation with the labor movement. We need to be aware of how we will do so, what action we will take. That's why this job was started a few weeks ago. It is the unit of suggestions that can lead to a change in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u16	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Maybe I'm on a personal level here, but I'd like to know what his own sense of justice tells him, if he shouldn't follow a strict and harsh penalty when somebody's being nabbed. Besides, I'm on my own again. I personally have experience in working as a circuit worker. I worked as a circuit worker in French farming for some time. It was a bit intense to monitor the surveillance there, since even the workforce in France has helicopters. Consider what it would be like if the work force could fly through a helicopter in such an emergency. What does his own sense of justice say? Do you need more severe punishment?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u17	A respectable president. I totally agree with what. A senator says that there is a greater need for penalties when people repeatedly fall into violations, as we saw in these television programs. That's what I've been saying after this show. That's why they even did. ... becauseI proposedthis proposal in the government for being four weeks ago. We're supposed to interrupt when this is the case. That is why this proposal was submitted. That's why we're doing this tour. This isn't supposed to be happening, and that's what I've said everywhere. I know that me and what. A senator agrees. I hope that out of this, there can be some strong suggestions that we can meet together here at the Council to legalize so that we can eliminate this problem. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and for the follow-up of this case, which is only good and of utmost importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u18	A respectable president. I didn't necessarily intend to come up here for unprepared queries this time. But I just can't help it in the light of the above recommendation. A health minister gave an answer to a question. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, who spoke of the quality of our mental health as compared to other nations, who even took away their sick people and shut them away in cages. If this is the standard for us to have a good mental health system, we're in pretty bad shape. There are 39 individuals who have died from drug poisoning for the rest of the year, more than the entire year of last year, 39 individuals. Is this acceptable, topv? A health minister? What practical steps can we take, and what can we do now without waiting to see more? It's headed for a disaster here. It is growth in many dying youths and drug - toxic people. What are we going to do about it? Is there anything we can do in one day, as when we helped the fractured southern Westfjords to work together as one? I don't doubt it, chief. The minister of health, that in here every senator would, I'm going to generalize here and now, want to take this matter into your arms with all your heart, and follow it so closely that we saw a decrease in the number of these deaths rather than an ever - increasing rise.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u19	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator's inquiry. Of course, it is important to have a word exchange, but I would like to ask that my words be not offended because it is a serious matter. When I say that our mental - health status is good in some parts of the world, but that we can do better is exactly what I'm saying. I'm not saying that that's enough and that we don't have to do any more. Wait a minute. Senators, to let me interpret my words, she takes care of hers. Is it acceptable that 39 people died? Does anyone think the answer is yes? Does anyone think that it is not a health authority's everyday business in a responsible state to worry about such things? What kind of discussion is making room for some health minister in some country at some time to say: Yes, that's acceptable. I'd like to ask the senator to be careful that this is a serious discussion. She does not tend to make the shoes so that people are not concerned about the situation. I have indeed, and have used myself to change the pharmaceutical process to reduce the use of medical devices, as it is called, in circulation. [[The president calls.]] I've called for suggestions and the information of the people most familiar with in the post-operative period. [[The president calls.]] Many of them have been put to work. [[The president calls.]] The best thing to do, even more so, is to be done on both premium and treatment issues. But this is, a respectable president, a case on the program every day in the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u20	Thank you very much. Secretary of health for the counter-reguage. I interpreted her words, with all due respect, exactly as they were said, in no other way. V.E.G. A minister must make a more careful choice of words in the town of Generals if her words are to be interpreted in any way differently than they are appreciated. I was going to point out that when we talk about 39 people being killed here by drug poisoning, most of them are waiting on a waiting list for help and treatment at the U.S.A. A few hundred million people are needed to live up to their needs in order to live up to what is called for in our community as well as by our best specialists. The question is, Is it really not possible to meet and at least to see if it would benefit us to give our people greater benefits and to give them the opportunity to get back to help sooner than we can see?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u21	A respectable president. Everyone has to fly like he's feathered. I think it's important that the discussion about such matters is not in the title of a shout. Rather, it's about us looking at the project with our serious eyes. One of the things to consider, and I've talked to him about it before. A senator prepared unprepared queries is the treatment of the youngest group, i.e. The kids under 18. The day has come when that group needs special attention, and as a result, we, me and the highest. Minister of societal matters, attempting to coordinate strings better than ever before. It's a problem everywhere in the administrations, the silos and the walls between ministers and advisers, but because we feel that the matter is serious, we feel that it is important to put together cords in both the treatment and the part of children's protection at any given time. [[The president calls.]] That task comes first for both problems. I'll make sure of what. The senator's opinion of my words is that they cannot be misunderstood. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u22	A respectable president. I'd rather direct this question to the vice president of the Independence Party than the Supreme Court. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers. Now that Icelandic economy is getting cold, there is growing concern that government income leaders will not follow. They based an end to unprecedented interest in the coming years and, at the same time, the wealth of the Kingdom would be reduced. Throughout history, a minister has talked eagerly about government responsibilities, blundering away, controlling the expenses of state funds. However, during the 16-year period of power by the group of people in 1991◯2007, government spending increased by 270 billion on solid prices, almost 70%. Now the goal seems to be to beat the record. The success of the Government budget will increase by 350 billion on solid prices, by 50%. Let's put the booth on better terms than call it off over the course of the party. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson is concerned about this development and that the category needs to regain its trust in handling public funds in an article in the Morning Press this week. It says, by permission of the president: Its chosen representatives recognize that they fell asleep in their guard and that the State - the bloc - has spread out on the watch of the party. V.E.G. In a recent article in the same field, a minister has personally discussed the need for counsel in the state of government. K. &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &lt; &gt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; &lt; 1/1,000. with these words, by permission of the president: ▪ I've mentioned this in the past that many feel that it is a time to strike a minister when expenses for his lawsuits take place, let alone that they contract. At the same time, the highest. Secretary of the budget and chairman of the Supreme Court. However, a minister is proud of the increase in government spending during the reign of this government. So I ask the highest. Minister: What's the policy of a high-level minister on financial funds? Is it the course of the party to give their own credit for expansion?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for an interesting, good, and pleasant inquiry that I would be delighted to get as often as possible during the council. It is true that government spending has been greatly increased, but it should be viewed in proportion to GDP, i.e. While expenses do not increase beyond what the cake grows, we must look to it. But we've managed at the same time, in the past few years, to pay off about that. 600 billion of the government's debt, which I also consider to be successful. I would like to review more often if we spend too much money, what they're going to do, whether they're all in the right place. That is why I have written my own words, both in the form of a question. A senator testifies to and before, that additional expenses do not always correspond to better service. It's part that I feel in this room that we need to talk more and more, that we can't pat on our back every time we increase expenses to some sort of group if we are not convinced that it will accomplish a better service. Of course, we have this financial project and we work inside the Ministry and will take about two years; this is where we are reevaluating the government's expenses. I think it's incredibly important. I think the project we're working with OECD, about the competition assessment, is part of this too, because we're going into two sectors. But when it's over, I hope we're watching all the other sectors, too, with those glasses on us. I like the writing of Óli Kárason Kálákður's son in the Morning Press all the same, especially when he enters this area, but I still mention that we have to look into what money goes into. When we add extra money to lawsuits that improve the quality of life of people living in this country because we're building more valuable things, I feel much better with such an expansion than with other things. [[The president calls.]] Yet, there are extraordinary things that we can do better in government efficiency and expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u24	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer to my cute inquiry. [[Up front.]] The problem is, of course, that increase in income is insurmountable. V.E.G. A minister here refers to spending not increasing as a percentage of land production, called the fluctuation of state funds, they have tended to decrease as a share of land production in economic production time. It is being increased for the first time compared to the plans of this government into an economic growth that is not yet under trial. In the news, we now see every day that the plans for economic growth in the coming years will not follow. On top of all of this, large budgeters are unfinished in the same national budget. For example, no funding in a pension system is to be expected. This was made clear in a discussion of the transport program yesterday that there is no increased support for transport. Then there is an extension of a maternity vacation, costing about 5 billion a year, not to find financial support for the strategy. [[The president calls.]] So I ask the highest. Minister: What taxes will this government raise in order to finance its spending plans? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u25	Mr. President. We have financial policies and a financial program based on the predictions available, which we do not create ourselves, but we do live elsewhere. While predicting in such a way that it is possible to carry the expenses as they are in a financial program. I agree with what. Senator, we've been getting on the air. It's a question of whether the uplift is changing, is shrinking, and whether we're going to land it smoothly or not. Of course, we will contribute to the smoothness of the occasion. But while the cake grows and while we place funds in lawsuits that improve the quality of the people living here, I think that's okay. That is not to say that by setting e.g. the increased money in the health system is equivalent to the better service it receives. I think it's important to look to that. With regard to the social security system and disability, 4 billion are expected, the question is whether it will be enough or not, but it is expected to be 4 billion. [[The president calls.]] Regarding transport, there is another topic. I am a great spokesman for looking up other ways when it comes to building the wood of transport workers because we have to watch it all over again, if more and more people start driving around on electric cars. [[The president calls.]] They'll break away from the funding system we have today with fuel - evaporation pressures.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u26	V.E.G. President. At the present time, as ten years have passed since the fall of Icelandic banks, it is clear that the consequences of the economic collapse had an extensive impact on the homes of the people of the country, but there is no room for analysis of the status of the individuals who sought help on debt and payment issues. That's why we're making this suggestion. Homes are the most important units of society. We need to hold them tight, and I'm glad that we are so well accepted here as this request for a report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u27	A respectable president. Trying to get out of bed and go to the kitchen for breakfast may be a challenge for a disabled person. But if there is nothing in the fridge anymore, why put forth effort? In the worst-case micro-piercing setting, the risk may be increased by to malt can or a bottle of light at the beginning of a month, not at the end of it. There is a shame that this kind of starvation should be tolerated by the government by the government. No one lives on rice only together or 200 calories, which is totally starving. This applies not only to disability in this country but also to many older citizens who live alone, have the right to rent and starve between them. This treatment of sick people is no more than a documented violation of a constitution. It's amazing that no red light should blink, and nothing should be done to set these matters straight. I'm asking, are we going to let this pass? Are we going to say that people are starving? Is it okay to not even have a maltido, let alone an eel bottle in the refrigerator for the last week or more? I demand that we handle these matters and get them right away because it's not okay and we're here at a council to be ashamed. Though we senators and ministers are good, we do not need to starve others. A respectable president. A centenarian against a dollar impairment is still available at table level of disability. The poor have the right to correct that breakdown as far back as January 1, 2017. What's a dollar worth against a dollar's impairment? This means that if you are correct for any compensation, pay, strength, and left hand, the right hand comes and rips them all off and more from you. That means if you own somewhere and get a little money from it, it's taken from you. Who's going to get the worst of this about micro-germs? Yes, there are women. I can't believe it's still like this today. I don't know if this is the vision of the people given these laws, but it's our job to change this. It is thought that the European Commission had a cent working against a dollar's impairment, a legal opinion showing it in black and white that it was a violation of the Constitution. This is discrimination. To say that these are not governmental violations because these have been corrected in the elderly is not enough for the welfare minister or anyone else in this government. Then there is another. It is said that the next 4 billion will be provided. What generosity. They forget to tell us that they have taken it by betraying a cent to a dollar, 24 billion. So they're gonna hold on to 20 billion and say, "We're gonna give you 4 billion; really good. This kind of work shouldn't last. It is impossible to say when this was corrected by older citizens, after not being corrected, because they did not want to swallow a workaholic, an performance that has been disputed over another ten years. It doesn't make sense to put this into context, a dollar's salary doesn't match and never has. The Constitution and human rights and discrimination are covered by just saying, "You don't want to swallow a job record that we please, and you won't be corrected, we'll break you, we'll break your constitution and your law. I'm asking the highest. Social and equal minister: Will Social and Equal Opportunities Ministers see to it that there will be a cut-off of dollars for micropair by next year, January 1, 2019? Will social and equality minister arrange for micromasks to receive a retrospective correction of a dollar against a dollar's decline from January 1 on January 2017? Counting social and equality minister to raise a dollar to a decrease of 65 p.m. The constitution that forbids discrimination?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for asking for this discussion here with special emphasis on a dollar in a row against a dollar's impairment. Before I come to answer the questions that were directed to me, I want to have a little privacy, just as it was. A senator did. Like what? A senator is well - known for his work, which included he is a participants, considering the new forwarding of social security for people with less efficient ability as well as a new assessment of the ability to replace the existing micro-energy evaluation systems. I hope that ideas in this world can be introduced in the near future. Before we go any further, it is a real concern to see that the incidence of disability here in the country goes up to the natural growth of workers in the labour market. At the same time, we see that the percentage of young micromanagers at the age of 183/439 is highest in Iceland, while 29% of the population is in this age. This is truly a work to do. It is a vital community matter that affects all of us, and we must stop this trend. There we must first and last note that the well - being of our young people who have the future of this country shows that their discomfort in this country has increased. I'm very worried about this development, and we can't afford to ignore this message. We also need to consider the prevention of work areas, but it is not okay to drive back so far as to see people come to a great deal of work because of stress and other pressures. This is where we as a community are clearly saving money and throwing away the crown. Similarly, we cannot constantly call for employment participation by people with impaired ability to work out jobs that can take into account the circumstances of those who cannot work full - time. In this regard, I would like to remind you that people with impaired skills are very far from being a uniform group. A respectable president. Emphasis is on strengthening the effectiveness of people with impaired ability, so I stress that there will be a forwarding system that is catalysed to the job participation of the group that I mentioned earlier. I trust the good people, including the bad. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, to show us good solutions in this regard. I dare say, though, that all those who have come to this work agree that these proposals will allow full reexamination, including the so - called crown against a penny. I reiterate that in these proposals and the current job, and hopefully on the final meters, we assume that we will eliminate a full dollar from the mine. Then there was a reason. A senator with fixed questions, and I'm going to answer them as best I can. If I don't get it in the first round, I'll do it later in the discussion. With regard to the first question at this time, it is not possible to make full changes in the extension of the microenergy and rehabilitation services before the above changes in the social security reform system have been performed. On the other hand, I believe that there is good reason to look into this matter specifically and that I have had to investigate the changes in the arrangement of this reform group so that instead of all income, i.e. 100% of the earnings of a pensioner, affects the calculation, may be lower than that. I repeat, like a dog. A senator came in, that we're in the next 4 billion, new, into this system. I've said that, both in public and in the interest of an interest organization, both the Microcreature Community and Developmental Help, that the implementation of the budget would be accomplished in cooperation with this organization. We already have 4 billion, we can use them to reduce the degree of impairment. A senator came on, but with a new system in which we are entering, we expect a change that will completely eliminate a dollar from a dollar. Another question. A senator was asked if he would receive repeated corrections against a dollar from January 1, 2017. To this end, I'd like to say that it has not been considered within the Ministry to perform such retrospective corrections. Some 8,000 pension workers are paid a monthly supply per local law, and despite the fact that all pensioners earn an effect on the calculation, we have not been given any suggestions on which other ways to pay the compensation. So it is really unclear how such correction should be formally seen. I reiterate, because my time is running out, that it is extremely important that we be able to improve the quality of the biofuels in this country, but it is also important that we reach out for this group, especially for young people who are falling out of a labour market. [[The president calls.]] If we succeed, he shouldn't land on disability. [[The president calls.]] There are changes we have to do at the same time, and that's what the government is going to do, she's going to cover these two projects simultaneously, and hopefully that'll happen with proposals in the near future, as the Senator knows. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u29	Mr. President. What gives man an enormous advantage on other species is the ability to form large communities that can unite at a certain point of baseline. I don't think there's any better evidence for communities than the way we treat those who get sick. Iceland is a rich country, one of the richest things in the world, but here come some children into the world who are anticipated to be unable to support themselves and to be doomed to poverty to the present system. Others then face tragedy later in their lives, and they face the same fate. And their children as well as growing up. How unjust is that, Mr. President? Therefore, there is a definite testimony to this government that it does not put on better consideration for this group, if something is set aside as a budget and a financial plan. These 4 billion to the highest. A minister spoke of earlier, and should run toward more than an increase, will do only one third of the cost to eliminate the so - called crown against a dollar's impairment. Besides that, the government has many problems, which would be greatly reformed for this group. There I can specifically mention housing, health - care costs, and especially mental - health care. Mr. President. We have an enormous amount of rich natural resources. People here on land who can't contribute much to themselves also share that share. There is no need for people to be born to poverty in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi before the discussion. At the same time, I want to thank you. Einarsson It was in 2009 that Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir set rules for the pooring disability that we are bloody above our heads trying to survive, so to speak, to be fed. We'll prove the shame in our homeland with it. It is very important that the committee we have. The matter is handled by a senator and an original - language man. I have high hopes for the findings of the Committee, both for the change of alimony and for a dollar to pass out completely. It's been discussed at the Committee, and I have high hopes that we will be able to make progress at the end of the year, but it is very important that we be successful at the end of the year, against a dollar's impairment. This has been discussed in the Committee, and there is good solid solid solid solidarity, and I have full expectations that the step will be reached at the New Year's Eve. I've also talked about how important it is to increase the rate of disability. I sent a letter to the office manager of the General Assembly and urged him to work when there was a lot of talk in the papers about people with Down syndrome getting no work. I urged him to work on such people. I know it's been working with such people for 18 years. The letter left in August, there were no answers. If these are the answers the government's going to give and surprise, I don't like the tinder, not if we're going to increase the work of the disabled in the near future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u31	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank a man of speech, as well as the highest. Minister for this important discussion. An apocalyptic stresss a crown against a dollar's impairment, which is very inhibitory and leads to a number of micro-energy and rehabilitation donors who have no or little benefit from employment participation. It can be said that the present system minimizes the work of those people who can and wants to put their hands on many, for they are very few. It must also be mentioned here in the part of the disability pensioner who is able to collect pensions but who are not benefiting from these rights because of this cent against a dollar's impairment. It has to be arranged so that people can enjoy all the things considered normal, e.g. Other incomes may be reduced, mother and father's pay, death rates and assessment of property savings, to name something. Microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners with other incomes are therefore made almost impossible to improve, and it can be said that this decline will keep micro- and-replacement pensioners in poverty. We have often talked about taking off a crown in return to a dollar, and there have been reports in recent years. So it's time for real action. I listened to the highest words. Ministers and finds it difficult to understand that there is a need for a change in the pension system to correct this, as presented here. paritaprevir Ásmundur son of Friðriksson, that a crown cannot be removed from the mine. I just don't understand how this hangs together and I want it to be better outlined in a later minister's answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u32	Mr. President. It is important to discuss the choice of disability as well as those with impaired function. It is a well - known fact that living with disability also increases the likelihood of living in poverty. That's why we're here to discuss these matters. In this discussion, I find it important to draw it up and point out that not all are the tax companies of the social security system that have paid for a dollar, but they have some limitations. The system is extremely complex, and there are different limitations in the ratios of different payment groups, and that is one of the things we want to achieve by changing the social security system, to simplify the system, but still have it just and fair. There are two things that I find extremely important to stress, i.e. to ensure the benefit of those who only have paid from the social security system for their implementation while also having the system so that those who have the ability to work can participate in the labour market and benefit from it. The model class is just an improved class that is supposed to ensure that no one goes down for a certain amount of living, and that, as I said, in itself, is important, i.e. to ensure the survival of those who have no other income to make. According to this, I don't think I have a cent against a dollar's score because they work against the very fact that people who receive this kind of payment can improve their survival. [[The president calls.]] We need to keep this in mind, not all of us get a dollar in return. We need to make sure that everyone has a minimum wage, and we have to have the system, so it's more of a job opportunity, and it's an incentive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u33	A respectable president. A cent can be taken out of the way without going into major system changes. It is one of the simplest simple ones to go to. A large group of people are concerned that they should not need, as well as that of reducing any impulse to participate in the workforce. This also sends out the message that they are somehow worth less than other people. If we really want to reduce disability, we need to go in ways other than a work programme. Rather, we do well to examine basics that are about to shorten our work week. That's how we fight cold in our work. Thus, we reduce the vast increase in mental illness that is among young people today. Pirams support the execution of a crown against the loss of a cent. We also have a very good bill that goes on a short work week. In this way we would be going toward what other European countries are doing, approaching the North countries, and in effect responding to the criticism that OECD has placed upon us that work loads are high in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for bringing up the tremendous task that we face during the council and hopefully for the winter. This is a review that's taken way too long. Sadly, in 2016, the donor was left behind in review of the social security laws, and it is clear that although the change in pension was criticized for many things, it was at least strengthened by that group's position and it is time to complete such a reexamination of the disability system. Of course, there is much to care for. The obvious thing is, and I believe that transpiral solidarity is about that in the hall, that a dollar must be taken off against the loss of a penny. It is the most workwhelming, work - inhibitory unit of this system today, and it probably plays a very large part in how difficult it is for those in the micro-energy pension to go back to the job market. Actually, people are being punished for their work. I haven't met or talked to anyone in the group that doesn't want to be in a job market if he can, but the system just typed and doesn't encourage it. That's absolutely basic, but it's not right for me to know that the system does not need to be revised. It is quite clear that there is a fraction in the stratosphere of 75% of microenergy pension today which is very normal to be revised, that there are additional steps in this, as it is quite clear that a person defined as having a capacity of more than 25%, which, according to a microenergy rate of less than 75%, cannot support himself on the support available. Mental - health issues need to be developed. There we see an epidemic, and we need to put an extra emphasis on it. We need to look at other factors, such as how we can improve our disability system and our good resources, such as a dentist, which seems unable to communicate, thus reducing the benefits of the recycling work done there. [[The president calls.]] It's a complicated subject, and I have high hopes that the current revision will have results. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I look forward to having a share in completing that assignment in this room in due time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u35	A respectable president. This reference will not be measured often enough while improvement is not better. The poor have been left behind, the minority group in the community that is really under attack. Would not a dollar against a dollar is a world record, such as so many other values we have in the world? This is the only group that enjoys such impairment. Likely, the damages will weigh more than what we could have done a long time ago when we removed such losses from older citizens in our time. But I say, It is better to do. The people's party is calling for 300 y'all. K. Minimum progress, tax and inadequacy. Were there many who shared with us on that bill? No. I'll wait to see if they'll be able to cross their heads through the council at the end of the day. I've repeatedly pointed out, e.g. in this pont, how the Swedes have gone in an effort to encourage the poor who are physically able to work but were trapped inside the system to go to the labour market by allowing them to work for a long time without being affected by a single dollar. And the outcome? Thirty percent of those who took advantage of that possibility did not return to their improved system. V.E.G. So a minister insists that there must be a system adjustment before we can take a dollar off against a dollar. I call for support from the highest level. Minister, like what? paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir did earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, for bringing this important matter of justice to the attention. Surely, all in the hall agree that we are to march on that path and remove a dollar from a coin. I just want to go on preventative and practical treatments. In recent years, psychiatric disorders have increased in young micropigs and are the most common cause. There have been many reasons for doing so, and most important, for each individual and their family to receive needed help. Cannabis smoking has harmful effects, and many suffer mental illness because of drug abuse. How do we help them? The defenses are of vital importance, and we need to work at them. There is also a need for open - minded treatment. What a shock it is for a family when a young person in the prime of life is led into a drug crisis and with disability! The system can't let people down. We need to do better, and we should do better. Accidents and spiritual trauma can have a deep impact on a person's life. Many people have to live with chronic pain for years because of this. That's why we can help. During the last winter, I asked a health - care minister for information about mange in Iceland. Implantation factor is considered to be a contributing factor of 75% disability in 14% of all microenergy women. It should be noted that microplasia is caused by synergistic factors of tissue arthritis, other musculoskeletal disorders, and psychiatric disorders. From that request, I decided to submit a synonym (contact) proposal to assign a health minister to employ the public's education on histology and to have reviews of the order of specialized rehabilitation services with the objective of strengthening the analysis procedure and can offer holistic treatment based on the results of an experienced investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u37	Mr. President. In Iceland, there are about 20 of you. invalid. That number goes into the entire district. The number is similar to that of the people of Akureyri or the population of the city of Rhojanes or Breinholt. So it is a large group that governments must not ignore and should not be able to ignore. All can become invalid, but no one chooses to live with impaired function. I got tired of pointing out that Iceland is a rich country, in fact the 11th richest country in the world. How shameful it is, in effect, that the desperate of all groups must be in a constant struggle with the government! In far too many cases of poverty, disability is not a natural law of nature. It is a political decision or, in fact, a lack of a political decision. This hall has an interpolitian agreement to defuse a dollar from a dollar to a dollar's degree. But that harmony goes no further, for the funds are still lacking to take it step by step. Words can be cheap, especially in this room. Actions are what they need. And why is that not done? Here the community does not go by the side of a dollar to meet a dollar reduction in micropigage. Mr. President. I have now proposed a matter of Congress that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People will be legalized. In such a legal condition, Iceland would be in the lead of road transport to the rights of the disabled and desperate globally, and I understood the highest. By this morning, the minister of health is supporting that matter. I have high hopes that transpolitic solidarity is involved in that matter, just as I hope there is a parapolitic solidarization of a crown against a crown's impairment. Then we need to be ready to finance this rather than just talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u38	A respectable president. Happily, we see the end of a lousy crown against a petting system that we have been living in for far too long. It is part of another problem that I brought up in the council recently, which is that we have established a system of writing people, and that particular group of people I intend to make my publicity, to get them back into a job market, including ... becauseofthe former impairment. I've pointed out that 40% of Iceland now, i.e. Those evaluated with more than 75% disability are affected by mental disorders. Thirty percent of the population in Iceland are young people under 40. The largest part of this group is young men, 20 to 30 years of age, men, who are mentally ill. This group has almost cut into 75% of disability, often caused by temporary discomfort, anxiety, sadness, depression, into the same system as, e.g. many dressed people who have no chance of ever getting into a job market, either in part or in all. Of course, there are other systems and alternatives for them. This group should not be equal to the group I spoke about earlier. After recently drawing attention to these matters, a large group of experts came to me in such matters and showed me that it was necessary to consider alternatives to our use of them. The conclusion of the people is to get them to work, young boys, a role where they have to come, show up, and do something. [[The president calls.]] I urge the committee and minister to take special care of these matters, and I trust it to put an end to the absurd rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u39	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. Life expectancy in Iceland is with the largest in Europe. The Icelandic health system is often described as one of the best things in the world. In spite of this, the number of sufferers in this country is twice as high as in any other country in the North. Systemic reason must be responsible for some of the systems set up to evaluate disability and to help microorganism in getting their cures. Less than 19 of you. you have 75% energy estimates in Iceland. In the last seven years, men aged 203/424 years with microenergy assessments have increased by 37%. In the past six years, the number of mental disability victims has increased by more than 13%. The growth of micro-organization workers is in no favor of anyone. It is a matter of conflicting with the Micro-Communicator Community that can further prevent disability from being a source of strength. It is important that the social, health, and educational systems communicate with one another. The number of youths in disability has increased more than proportionately in the group of disability. During the past six years, young people aged 20•24 years who receive disability have increased by 28%. During 2016, the incidence of disability for the first time exceeded the natural growth of workers in the labour market. Looking forward to the past ten years, 44% more new microorganists were in 2016 than in 2007. It's striking numbers. Mr. President. The development of disability in Iceland is serious and we must take it seriously. The State must seek everyone's advice in order to cope with this trend. It is serious that so many individuals permanently disappear from a workforce because of problems that should in many cases be handled. People should not be discouraged, they should focus on what they can do and strengthen their strength. [[The president calls.]] In contrast with that important goal, the cut of businesses around a dollar is contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u40	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion, and it's been heard by the people here that some solid agreement is that we need to ensure a poor man - made vote. It should not be some physical law that being an invalid of being condemned to poverty for life. Because poverty has another tremendous negative impact on the quality of life that people have and what they can afford. We have research that shows that there are low incomes that are more likely to refuse health care than others do. At the low level of income failures, more than 17% responds to medical care, less than one third of dental services, and 45% of them refuse mental health because of poverty. In this regard, it is important that we plan for health freedom where possible and not build a double system where people with money can buy themselves ahead of them, but to promote a public health system that is accessible to all. I'd like to mention the situation of disability as family members, as family members, as individuals in the community, who want to see their children flourish and prosper. Then again, we have a system that we need to protect and strengthen. We need to provide children with free education, free school meals, and we need to strengthen our system, such as our vacation card, so that the cost does not go in the way of children who are desperate and others who are paid by others can take part in the small business activities that are offered. Then we need to expand it a little, expand our thinking that we are supporting the threat of income in order to share in all the necessary things. The poor get a discount today when they attend museums and other cultural events, but their children do not always. [[The president calls.]] Thus, a museum in Reykjavík is free of charge for children, but to go swimming or to the petting zoo or theater, you need to pay. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is what we need to consider; how we can support people in order to share in the culture with their children. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In order to live with dignity, you see, people need not only the most vital but also the rest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Thus we can share fully in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u41	The President wishes to remind members of the hearing. That was 39 seconds before a two - minute talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u42	A respectable president. I'm always so nervous when I get up in this pit that I forget about things I was gonna say. That's why I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for bringing up the issue I was going to do earlier and saying with him some things. I'm putting up with the injustice against the loss of a dollar. Besides, I think he's missing from The Piranha. Nevertheless, I like that he is at a council for the Gang of the People, and I think the people's party has done a lot of good talking about these matters. A centenarian is highly inhibited and often makes poor decisions, i.e. You have to spend money that it may cost to get rid of paying a capital tax. I think it's really unfair. I know a lot of people who have been in some kind of trouble because of that. It is as if people are somehow opposed to the fact that at some point people who have had tragedy in their lives may have a little good. The question is, Why is it always being promised to take away this crown in return to a dollar's degree, but nothing has happened? Now it's promised to take it off, but at the same time, some yellow root is about the quality of my work, which really worries me a little bit. A crown across from a crown is the yellow root, then we're supposed to go to work assessment. I don't know many cases abroad that it's going very well, and I'm worried about the numbers I'm doing with an increased suicide rate. Just so I come back on this thing I was talking about freezing -- now I'm a little nervous again, I'm not so used to. I would like to refer to the 2017 annual report on the increase in medical spending by 72% since 2006. This shows that there has been a marked rise in coldness. I think it's important that we look at the short work week. It'll also increase production, I'm sure of it. So at the end, I don't want to minimize the problems of young people, I think it's enormously important, but we also have to look for a huge rise in disability in older groups, sort of the biggest increase. [[The president calls.]] I think it can also be explained to the workload.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u43	A respectable president. As I mentioned in the previous talk, this certainly is a complicated subject, not to belittle it, often forgotten during the discussion. V.E.G. At first, a social minister introduced a very diverse group of disability. It is like a community of poverty, such as a cross section of society, and we have to deal with the same variety or circumstances as in the community. There are no simple patent solutions in that, rather than in other matters. We need to find the best way to go, which produces the greatest results for the group as a whole. I've always said that I feel that I'm too negative about the change from micro-energy evaluation to a work-evaluable estimate. The assessment of work can be a good system or a bad system. It's about how we build a system. But I find that the basis for evaluating people is far more positive than their inability. We are not to belittle our vows, but what kind of skill we build is of utmost importance. Let us focus on it. It's called here, for example. The trend in union medical funds. We need to look at how we deal with sick - health rights from an employer's rights through a medical fund with a union and ensure that there is support and service to people from the beginning, not just when the rights are up, which is, unfortunately, the defect in the system today. The most disturbing thing to me is that despite the government's good plans on the case, it is not to see that any funds are spent on this or in financial planning or financial matters for the next year. I am completely rejected by the government's plan to revise the micro-energy money system from the ground to the ground, to cut off a dollar from the decrease, and to spend about four billion dollars. Clearly, this change will be more costly, at least at the beginning, but it is assumed, and the government will have to answer how it will finance it. If 4 billion are covered, it's obvious that we're not going to change anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the members of the council who have come up and discussed the matter and the ministers as well. I am shocked by a minister who tells me that he does not really know how to correct a crown across the crown's decline back to 2017. I have not known that it would be in anyone's possession to correct the repeated pay of members of Congress. It has not been in anyone's head to re-create reimburse all non-terrestrial wages, but it is, of course, so complex that there is no hope. I'd like to point out what's going on. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir's left - green daughter came up and pointed out that this was the smallest, special supplementation should ensure that no one would go down for a certain amount of living. When they put this on, the left greens and the Conspiracy in 2009, they put in all the tax-related incomes of the state's insurance agency, the car strength, the drug strength, the oxygen levels, all that's impaired. How, then, does a person feel that he or she will defend himself when he thinks he is getting minimal progress, and so it is systematicly impaired? This kind of work is not present. Then there's your professional assessment. Why don't you just say, "Go to work, find a job." Where's the job? How many desperate people wait for a job at the Labour Department and don't get a job? Can a minister answer that? What job do people have? How many cripples are being rehabilitated by a victim? What is the situation of those who suffer from mental illness there? Let us see that the number of microorganisms is increasing, the percentage is increasing. This is nonsense. The Kingdom produces disability by not seeing to it that people receive psychological services. Children and others are released from school. This is a future problem, an increase in disability, and the Kingdom that makes them. Nobody wants to be an invalid.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u45	A respectable president. Thank you for this discussion. I'd like to say, first of all, that it's in the process of decommissioning a dollar across a dollar's trinket. It is scheduled for the present government to disband a dollar from a dollar to a dollar. The way this is done will be in cooperation with both this already active committee and with a stakeholder, both the Quantum Community and the Developmental Fund. That's totally clear. And the other is also clearly clear that we have to increase people's employment income. It'll be even. ... tore off a cent for the loss, but we also need to make changes in the system. I think that was very clear in these discussions with many of those who have spoken. We have to make some changes. Why must we make adjustments? I'm gonna repeat what I said earlier. We can see that the percentage of young micromanagers at the age of 183/439 is highest in Iceland, while 29% of the population is in this age. If we don't make any changes, we don't raise any payments to micro-energy pensioners, we don't add anything to alimony or anything else, we have a completely unchanged system for the next 15 years, then the pay on a fixed price from a government fund will go from 41 billion to 90 billion. In 2016 41 billion, 90 billion 2030. That's why we have to make changes in the system at the same time because we have all of this in one group today: people who are supposed to be able to go back to the work market, and people who really need to get more progress and, as society is supposed to be more responsible. This is what we're working on. It's in progress in this committee. That's even. This Swedish route was to be examined. paritaprevir Sæland Head pointed out. I'm convinced that we can succeed both at the same time, with the exception of a dollar across the crescent limits, and thus improve the implementation of micro-energy donors, and make changes in our systems so that we can improve our employment activities as possible, especially young people we want to have in the labour market. I appreciate this discussion. [[The president calls.]] I'm convinced that we're on the right track, and it's not far away. [[The president calls.]] Thank you so much for the good talk here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u46	A respectable president. We will discuss two terms of transport protocols between five and 15 years of age. There are many things to look at. The sea, the sea, the sea, and the sea are wide. It is a vast, impressive wealth of the highest. Secretary of transportation, high to the air, wide to the wall. Governments have produced high expectations for large - scale campaigns in this category, as is true of many others, who will then be cut off, nothing but a little fuss. The interpretation proposal that we now look at does not measure up to. The treasurous sound will not be heard. The good news has nothing to do with it. No matter where you look, to the country or to the urban population, there is an urgent need for building roads, airports, and rejection. Government speech becomes more and more simple and in the same way. Mantran has become such a loss of tongue. If you want a better road, you have to pay more, you have to stretch a little deeper into your pockets. Of course, it is in the common people to add to their existing curses. But we face reality, increase in automobiles, increasing traffic rate, and increasing demand for traffic workers call for ever - increasing public expenses. There is good reason, then, for us to take full reimbursement into account, to apply modern technology guided by the future. It is not to be taken into account by individuals and private companies. Who next looks himself, and if I look at the grandest thing in the northwest, there are many challenges. The main objective of transport on the West has been virtually unchanged for 20 years, on this issue there has been a community harmony among the locals. Health years between services, habitats and other parts of the country. There is reason to uphold what is well done, and there are several examples in the northwestern district. In the West, the northern region, exciting projects are being carried out. The animal tunnel is at its height and is doing well there. However, it is totally unacceptable that roads that are essential for good innovation should not be ensured at the same time. In this respect, it will be a struggle to turn the government into a better source. Of course, it should be noted that a narrow road through the Hester Fjord and Seyster Fjord in the Deep will be blessed and covered. It will certainly shine upon the Westerners if this happens, and who knows unless the old telephone poles begin to sing in the sunshine and be green again, to be spoken by the good city poet? What a joy it will be if the road to Peace is completed next year and is the long - awaited goal of reaching out for the inhabitants of the area! The Gufu Valley Road is included in this proposal, and if I understand correctly, it will be as soon as it is in 2019. Now we need to board up sleeves and make sure that this transport process becomes a reality, but undeniably, land vision is still not clear. It is not only against governments, the locals must come together, gather the years with us, and calm us in one direction. As a result, the 13th Psalm 13 is now being diluted. First, it comes to mind that the important linkway that is the Snæfellsian Road does not enter a transport program until the first year 2024. It is a means of transportation, which connects industry and is a vast tourist route. The Uxabal road continues to delay, the Laxá valley that is an important route of transport between the Burden Valley and the Doveholes, when the Holt Sea is especially disturbed, remains, and continues to be a significant road block, largely malar road. There are several linkways, many pathways used by the local people, as well as by tourists'routines. I name the road through Waternes, which is a very busy road in a thriving countryside. There are schools and young children who have to travel by bus long distance from home and at home and often attend games, even from car sickness, after driving on a street. Waternes also find popular landmarks in tourism and a pure natural bulb, a white rich man. The situation of this application site has been restored. It is an excellent vehicle, but much of winter, it is unable to get to the area of ordinary cars and land travellers in a tunnel, requiring effective tow trucks to recover. Roastland Road is the only major transport process in the northern part of the Western world that appears in a long-term transport programme. During a short trip to the program, residents in the United States are ill because of heavy traffic between settlements. This has become more and less one job area. In the south side of the district, I think next year there will be a small amount of money spent on road repairs. It's one of the biggest traffic stations in the country. There is no such thing as A word of groundwork, an idea of reevaluating the road there, and of Kjalarnes in the vicinity of our district must be making a huge effort. In the analysis of the Vífill Karlsson's economist through traffic and the state of road roads in the Western region, which were developed two years ago in 2014, the majority of the malarways in the Northern West were found to be the largest. Little has occurred since then, and the northern part of the West has been further dragged back from other areas. A fine example is the valley of Borkra, a large area of vacation time. 16% of the roads are blocked. I named Waternes back there where there is also a very bad road, but in a transport program, there is money to do so. repairing roads that do not have to satisfy the demands generally made on highways, as far as I can get. Mr. President. The flight is an important element of transportation. The necessary funding for maintenance and implementation of airport manures and domestic flight navigation systems are severely lacking, likely 1,200 million years, if the interior areas of the national system are properly organized within the next five years. In the past ten years, on average, this team has joined 365 billion people. K. every year. Plan flights between Reykjavík and Isafjörður, Bilddal and Gjögur are the most important public transportation of the Western world and the lifeline of much of the year. The Fourth Assembly has repeatedly encouraged the State to make flights real and accessible for use in the public, e.g. as a so - called Scottish route. It will be informative to observe the progress of that matter within the government. No part of the country lives in the worst airport ever. Normally, no bigger than 37 aircraft are flying west. This clearly inhibits the structure of tourism and the development of employment. A draft proposal for local screening for a new airfield for the Westfjords has been submitted. The Western Council has concluded the suggestion and supports the use of this work, which is not paid for the public at this point. This conference on airports cannot be replaced without referring to Alexander's airport in a sheep's jar, which, in the opinion of professionals, is well understood and can serve at the same time as a reserve airport for international flight and as a planned international airport. This requires strengthening the support under field and flight as public transport options for citizens of the country. Here we return to the Scottish route, an interesting advantage. We cannot abandon transport discussions without staying on the docks. Of course, the oceans are vital to many settlements. In Bolungarvík, Knarfjörður, and the small boat crew in Skaga Beach. It's all right, and hopefully it'll work out. Working on a transport plan is, in effect, a fascinating task, to build up, clear paths, and to look forward. In the present suggestion, many things have to be done, many are around the world. It's not necessarily the high amounts that captures you when you read the proposal, not in the big context. Annual budgeting will be, for example. 75 million. K. During the season each year, and hopefully it also takes advantage of people who are bicycleing and walking. Also, the cost of maintaining fences along the roads of the country is estimated to be 60 million and to save livestock from soon harm. Then the strategy is focused on changes, economic and environmental transport, pointing to a number of possibilities for starting one place in a different direction than just in a decommissioning and spending car. Please refer to a range of studies that show that about 1 euro in the medical system can be saved for each wheeled mile. [[The president calls.]] There are a number of flies that can be hit in one blow, improve the quality and the quality of human health. Obviously a national failure, which has not been proven in Iceland, but I think we should get our bicycles ready. Mr. President. The network of roads in Iceland is vast in our rural country. [[The president calls.]] We make great demands, and they are especially shrinking. We want to have the impression that we are a highly developed people with a strong infrastructure. Iceland's highway system is nearly 10,000 miles [3,000 km] long. The break-up is over 5,500 miles [500 km]. [[The president calls.]] There are nearly 1,200 bridges and a large percentage of them, some 700, single - creases. [[The president calls.]] Since 2019 it is estimated that an increase in the maintenance contribution will be 10,000 million. K. every year. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] There are many challenges, many of them, and exciting projects ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u47	Again, the president would like to remind the senators to give a speech lesson. This bell bell was at the command of the Guðjón of Brjánsson Guðjón, son of the Continental Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u48	A respectable president. I want to establish two issues that are part of this transport process that are different from those connected. It is clear that the collection of maintenance and investment activities in the road system is enormous and will not be avoided. I would like to welcome the main goals of the transport programme for safe and sound infrastructure. That's where everyone agrees. Many of this transport program has been carefully developed, and it meets a real need. However, I would like to criticize the distribution of projects during a period of time. The background of this transport process is quite high, and this means that projects on transport will be too late, i.e. If money is given to an assignment that is not fully useful, the project will not result in profit; it cannot be used. The animal tunnel is in the first period of this transport program, and therefore it should be welcomed, but linked to the project is the Dothandidir estimated to end in the second period, i.e. 2028, which is 10 years from now. We need to examine the context of things. By the time they pass through the North Animal Strawway and enter Eagle Fjord, a pagan barrier is closed, allowing animal tunnels to fail. Therefore, I would like to encourage the secretary of transportation to see if it is possible to go to the Dufinds' house earlier and to conduct it there so that these projects can be completed at the same time or at the same time. When we discuss these matters, we cannot ignore the fact that problems between planning authorities on the south of the West have been causing damage and have really got in the way of government control. It is important to speed up the Douglinder and move to the first period of time to make these roads useful. In the ten years that the Westerners have had unacceptable delays in their projects, it is estimated that they will wait another ten years, provided that no further delay is necessary by the organization. The lawgiver must be not afraid to step into such delays and languages, and, I'm going to speak pure language, when planning authorities simply get in the way of transport development and security. Precious monuments are in the background, and they are not profitable for society. These monuments are designed to help transport people and products and services, shorten travel time, increase security, unite employment areas, link markets and manufacturers. We must speed up this project. But now I take up my talk to another feature of the 4th transport programme, which is classified as a public transport project, i.e. your future status for training and teaching flights. Today, there is a Reykjavíkur Airport, which is the main facility for training and teaching flights, and it is not for good reason, the facility is at hand. For a transport plan, you can find a statement that Reykjavík's airport will be the main airport for this and for other uses until another option has been established. I call for more information on where and how and what the situation will be there. Will there also be a facility for a medical flight, a photo and surveillance flight, a helicopter and a view flight, a teaching flight, an internal flight, a planned flight, a rented flight, an international flight, and a public flight? Will airport schools and smaller fliers, along with grass subflys, be in position in the new location? How much money is estimated to be set aside in such a situation? Are you going to build new ones and tear down the useful things? The question may be larger than at first because Reykjavíkur Airport is actually an education site today, the education site of the generation of professional people who will later be using planes in international flights, one of the largest industry in Iceland today. Would anyone be inclined to close school for ship managers or health professionals or teachers? This situation must be in place. This is an essential part of the education of people who are working on this article. It can be estimated that the development of a new airport is of the order 1803/4250 billion, almost half of the city's money in the next 15 years. Then I come back to the organizational point, the department in this case in Reykjavíkurburg, have hidden and clearly worked for years to put a stone in the street of safe and sound structures. Reykjavíkur Airport is most likely to maintain its place and position and be rebuilt and built up. It's the cheapest, it has a lot of additive effects, both for international and international flights in Iceland. I think we have to say plainly that national economic efficiency is in that Reykjavík's airport will be where it is. If such rural planning authorities as Reykjavíkurburg can behave in a way that they have done and have done everything within their power to push off the airport, they will bring in the government, the taxpayers, the countless costs, and will delay in declaring the government's objectives of building safe and sound infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u49	A respectable president. We'll discuss a transport plan here. I want to start by thanking the highest. Ministers and members of the Ministry for bringing in a 5-year-old and 15-year plan that is very important. As an old head of transportation, I know that behind these plans there is an enormous amount of time and effort, claiming to know that my transport partners have often handled the cost and money in this. We will continue to do this while we are being discussed at the council. We will deal with what needs to be first of all and what to wait for. It might have been good if we could have handled it before the matter entered the council. Of course, it's all about this work, how we work together to establish priorities in this transport program, and how the results lead to feeling reasonably unhappy for all. Actually, I'd like to, before I go further on thanking the highest. Minister particularly to his speech. paritaprevir Last night, Jón Gunnarsson's son discussed his ideas. I feel that the minister doesn't necessarily want to take this discussion as a black/white, with or in return. He is willing to listen to reasons and listen to suggestions. I think it's a good sign. I think it's a good start for this much work that's ahead of us that we're ready to take ideas on the table that could benefit us all. Although not all of them are in the transport program now, there may be some way to speed things up because I'm living at the council, with members of the Parliament, and with all of us, a tremendous lack of patience and a sense of urgency. We can hear it from everybody. This is where we have an expert on flying and talking. Everyone's waiting for us to do more. Of course, there is another way. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson mentioned yesterday. I wondered when we're talking about these matters, a 15-year-old transport plan, that if I'm to wait for the end of the Smokejanes track after 15 years, I'll be in my 70's, in my 70's. Me and the people of Southnes just don't have that time. We do not have that patience. I think that's the point. Although everyone is doing their best, this patience does not exist in the community. Do Westerners have any patience to wait for road improvements? I've been to the Westfjords twice and now just say, " If they have it, they're very patient. ' It is quite clear that the animal tunnel is part of the process if it should not continue to be connected to the normal road system, which is present, but is by no means around these areas in the west. When a professional network was traveling that day on the southern coasts of the West, meeting with the West Side officials and discussing the roads, it said, " Bring the roads, we'll pay the dues. It doesn't stand for us. We want roads. If expenses are needed, we are ready for it. I know the Minister has heard it as well as we have, and he understands it. I am quite convinced that once this discussion is over and the situation has gone through an environmental and transport committee, this will come out of the best outcome. I'm gonna trust that. The result is that humans have more patience to wait for the projects that will take some years. I hope so. The career in the West cannot wait for this. Roads are unable to rain over the summertime. It's just that way. I'm very happy, and I'm happy with those basics. Ministers, wanting to examine other ways, are ready to do so while the transport program is being discussed. I think it's healthy practice at the council to do so, not be hanging doors and saying, "It's just that we're going to talk about it. It's not done here. I'm very comfortable with that. I'm also going to adopt the opening words of a minister in his history yesterday, where he twice twice made it clear that safety is important to the transport program, as he put it. He stressed safety and discussed the cost of 50 billion each year, and, of course, many of them are terrible. We'll take our minds into this. To prevent all this tragic accident, we need to make road repairs as much as possible. In the South, there are the largest roads in the country that an amazing number of people pass through, and almost all tourists, or I don't know how high the percentage of the 2.3 million tourists coming here, use every year, which drive 20,000 cars through the track every day. As a member of the Southes, I feel that it's too long to wait until 2033 for the final stage. It's too long. There's been a lot of baloney going around on the laps and now at the Grinsavík Road, but it's too long. I say in this discussion that there must be ways to speed up these steps, especially to finish the double into Hafnarfjördur, and, of course, through the Gardentown as well. If we don't find a way, then there's a problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson with a suggestion and a motion. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's people also have an interesting suggestion that I think we should consider. For my part, I think it's very important that there's a full serious inspection. Of course, there are other things I would have liked to talk about, but a brief talk period limits it. On the east, I'd like to mention constructions on the Hornground. The angleholders feel it's a little late. They're supposed to run out of 2023. There's been a lot of expectation that it would be sooner. I don't know if we can take it any more. It may be possible to do so in some way. Nine singles of bridges should be disposed of. What a tremendous task that is! It's a very important assignment. I know the Minister has a special understanding of that. We just drove it together, and then we said that maybe it would be an idea to tear the old bridge over Morän, which is hundreds of feet long and maybe use the pieces of it to save money and use it as a simple bridge. The gold ring, the Scenario and Gnums, are areas that also call for funding. There are good things being done at Whoville and the east of Elfy. That's been going on for a long time. I'm glad you're here. I also show myself on the road to the highlands, like the road through the Landers. Of course, it takes something to raise it just so that it does not always have to be ridding it, that it does not get rid of the water, and while it is always more and less impossible. I would have liked to cross the flight too. There are 600 million coming in for maintenance. That's good. The strange way is being discussed. The minister has promoted it. They have a report on this assignment. I trust there's a good message for the country to reduce the cost of flying. The ransom fund gets 5 billion. Of course, there is a huge task ahead of you to change the steel roof in most of the country's ports. There are a lot of good things in this situation, but there's a lot of impatientness, people impatiently waiting for all the dreams that were due to come true, but with good intentions, good cooperation, we'll get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for a good speech. I wanted to come up here to ask the senator about it, I thought she was interesting. In fact, he said that he was getting too old to wait for the roads to work, and I was wondering if I should say so. I thought, " Maybe it's no good. ' A secretary of travel is reserved for transport funds in a financial programme. It may be difficult to change what I would like to see change, like a guv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson came on, with the Dohindi behest on the west side and doubled on Smokejanes, and other things that are extremely urgent to be done right away, but are not in the maps immediately. I'd like to ask the senator, because he declared optimistically that this would be accomplished by discussing this on a transport committee and that changes would be taken into account by members of the council whom he mentioned: How does the senator see this happen when compared with the narrow set of conditions that a transport minister is tailored to the work that has been carried out in this transport program?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u51	Mr. President. We'll talk about a transport plan. We don't have much time to talk about it. I'm gonna go ahead and talk about what has to do with the flight. Not many of them have established it in their speeches, so I'm just going to run over the key points in a transport program. We've been discussing how we've had about 300 million in maintenance and implementation in the international flight over the last eight to nine years, which is very low in historical terms, considering how that was in the preceding years. What happens now is that during the next five years, an average of 570 million will be added to the maintenance and investment of the internal airport environment, a considerable increase from that of about 300 million. The general debate has been that in order to maintain the current national airport environment, there will be a minimum of 600 to700 million, and the plan is close to that. This is not enough, however, for all the projects in the airports that have to be traveled far and wide throughout the country, perhaps especially at the international airports in Akureyri and the Elisus, where major projects are waiting. It's very positive in a transport program that's being proclaimed to be a flight policy for Iceland. That work is already started. Workgroups are being appointed to take on the job and are very excited to see what comes out of that work. The flight has become extremely important to us. The 2010 Oxford Economics report, published in 2011, estimated that the flight was about 6.6% of national production and in this transport program, it could be about 20% or one fifth of the total growth in international flights and flying functions in recent years could be made directly and by secondary activities and related to the flight. That, in effect, is a huge change. In a small number of parts of the world, flying is the same ratio in national production. I remember that in Dubai it's about 22%, which is one of the highest numbers I've ever heard. There, as we know, there are enormously powerful airlines and organizations. Nations such as Ireland and many other countries have won air travel, and therefore it will be very exciting to see what comes out of that work, where people want to look for the future regarding the flight, even when it comes to the rules and rules of flight and how we can improve air management in Iceland. The next year is the anniversary of the first flight in Iceland, of September 3, 1919. In the government contract of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, it is said that there will be a policy for Istavia to be formed. I have long considered it an enormous and important case that will be better defined than in the general tenant policy designed for Istavia when the predecessor of Istavia began its operation on January 1, 2007, and then united with the Cheflavour Airport in May 2010. It has to be defined by what you intend to do with Istavia, how you want to develop the company and what the owner's future vision is, i.e. The government, the government, what we want to see about business. It is a very exciting assignment that we may get a conclusion in as soon as possible. I understand that good work is being done looking at that direction. It is very important to the future. In Iceland, there are four international airports, the Cheflavour Airport, the Akureyri Airport, and the Lbound airport. They form the international airport system in Iceland and are all very important links in the chain produced by the airport system. What a tremendous growth has been in the 2010 Eyjafjordian flight! At that time, there were 16 U.S. airplanes flying to and from the country, but this year it is likely 57 and more rated on the pipes in the next few years. Thus, in seven to eight years, more than three times. If the plans for airlines have been fulfilled in planning for the future, then the aircraft will increase in the coming years and could be five times as many as they were 2010 after about three years. At the same time, no structural development has been performed in the airport, the development of the APB. We've been reminded of that considerably dangerously in the last 18-520 months with at least Three examples you can remember, i.e. When the Primera flew off course in Cheflaví last April, when six planes couldn't land at the same time in Cheflík 2nd April, where four planes landed at Egls and two in Akureyri, and then last mid-Same when the gas leaked from engine brake system that landed, and spread across runways, with the result that the field was closed. We see such things happening more and more frequently, showing what situations are developing in that environment. It is natural to act quickly to determine how man intends to build up the wood on the roads so that he can make one of the enormous flying systems available and from the land. I'm running out of time, and I'm barely starting my points. I am very interested in it myself, and the secretary of transportation has mentioned it in speeches, in terms of the funding of international airports and the international airport system, the backup measures, that we would re-examine the ground-of-the-air-of-the-air-of-the-air-of-air-of-the-air-of-the-air-of-the-air-of-of-the-air-of-air-of-of-air-of-the-air-of-the-air-air-of-of-of-the-the-Emacre, just a few years ago. That's one of the ways I think it's important for a man to create a sustainable operation of the airports and also that in the system the funds for building the extremely important workers of the airports, as they were about a year ago, are expected. It created difficulties when the then rescue price was removed about eight, nine years ago or so, in 2009 or 2010. This is a very big, important case. I don't seem to be able to get into many other material items in my speech, but to put things in perspective is in the transport program that we will be expected to meet at the founding costs and maintenance and regular renewal of the internal airport system of 2,850 million in the next five years, i.e. On average, 270 million, just like I came in earlier. In order to get the complete vision, there are projects in Keflavík by Isavík in the next few years up to some 1,930,150 billion, the amount that we are talking about in the financial and transport programs. I think it's very important that you realize the size of it. The focus needs to be spread elsewhere, and there is a need for a greater perspective on that subject. It is estimated that over the next five to six years the amount of money at Keflavík is 40 to 50 times higher than we are talking about in the entire national airport system, at all other airports in the country. I was surprised at the tremendous imbalance in it. It's a huge project we have to deal with. I hope we're doing well with that job in the winter, seeing a little better out of it. However, significant projects that need to be addressed to the secondary airport systems are not expected to be carried out. We may have to solve it in another field, discuss ideas regarding the price of the backup airport, and other things. I've finished with 1 of 20 points I was going to discuss, but this is what happens. I thought it would be nice to go through this because I don't think anybody went on the same track, which turns to a industry that has become a huge foundation under the Icelandic economy. Iceland's air traffic income was about 200 billion last year, compared with over 200 for the seabed and less than 200 for the major industry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] 300 billion domestic travel service last year, just so you can see the magnitude. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I heard he only got through a bit of what he was going to discuss. I know why. A senator well knows the flight, and he did well. I'd be interested to ask you what. A member of the Parliament on the building plans of Cheflavík and the development projects of Isavia there. Has a what? A senator may feel that it is a wise way to use money, or would it be wise to use it in a different way and then to use more airports across the country? It would also be interesting to hear more from the senator about financing of the transport system. Like what? The senator came in, I think all members of Congress have established this in the discussion of the transport plan, is certainly being a success in this transport program, and that's well, because this is an important project. Most of us, though, would like to see even more projects on a plane or a road tunnel. Can the senator see that other means could be used to finance such structure?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u53	Mr. President. I thank you very much for this question and for allowing me to have an opportunity to discuss these matters. I'm all for taking a good look at roads or charges, whatever they want to call them, for further funding. I feel this way, and I've always been that good transportation is a growing force in our society, a growing economy, a building up of employment, and, in fact, has a tremendous impact. I was an exchange student in the United States 30 years ago, took a course on this, and learned a lot about transportation in the United States since they founded the State and how it all happened. It was an amazing measure of interest. Given the funding we're talking about right now, it's very long before we reach the goals you would like to see. I think it's probably desirable to look at it. I am, for example. with ideas that have not seriously entered the council that Kett would come on their own to spread more people around the country. There are these types of projects to open up the areas, to create better distributions that have a fundamental impact on our economy, our economic life, and our country's habitat. We could do so much more by speeding up such projects. Regarding the question that turns toward Istavia and the so - called "master plan, which has been introduced to the Cheflavour Airport, this is an enormous projection. The proportion of projects estimated there is 40% of all government investments in financial programmes, to put it in some context. 40% is the master plan compared to the entire state in its investments over the next few years. I would have liked to have been ready many years ago so that the state and the government are more involved in what people are doing, because the interests of an Icelandic community in the big context are so great of what is being done with Isavia in Chefavík. Hence, governments must be better connected with these projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to start by talking only about the Smokey Way. The general assessment of the road safety programme for the town of Hafnarfjörður shows that by the year 2010, there has been an increase of more than 50% in the number of trafficways through the Hafnarfjörður. It is estimated that every day there will be over 45,000 cars on average. Istavia assumes that 10 million passengers travel through Keflavík Airport this year, and in 2033, it is expected to be 18 million passengers. Undeniably, the question arises, How do all these people come about? It's a matter of not primary interest in the interests of certain districts. It's not only about people in this area who have very rich interests here but it's about all the people and all who come here. It's about the safety of all those who go through the Smokey Way. The above assessment of the main road safety program for Hafnarfjörg farms also shows that the most severe road accident in Hafnarfjörður falls on and along with Smokeynes Way. 42% of all automobile accidents in the countryside between 2010,2016 were on the streets of the Roadmaker. Not enough to finish a double line on Smokejanes'Way until 2033. There is also the urgent need to make improvements in two corners of the road from Kapokika and on the Streets. That's not part of the five-year plan. It's unannounced. A respectable president. What we're talking about and what's going on here is one of the biggest projects of the council, if not the largest. I'd like to use the minutes I have the means to raise issues about climate. I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson in a speech he gave yesterday, linking a transport plan to the United Nations Climate Committee report, an iron - black report that we may all wish to see a better location in a transport program. We have a very ambitious and excellent climate action program that is based on the binding of carbon through forestry and the recovery of wetlands. However, it is based on transport energy exchange. This would have been desirable if the transport program had more attention to that goal. We must recognize that the way to do this is not just to switch from gasoline or oil to electricity but also to reduce the number of private vehicles in traffic and to promote public transportation. It is true that there is a further 1 billion contribution to public transport in the capital area, which is very good. But it's still missing, I think, obviously, how much activity it takes to reduce the number of private cars on the streets. I want to emphasize in this regard that we need to think about public transportation a little over again. We tend to think of public transportation as a sort of emergency bread, emergency, poverty relief, that people will be forced to use public transportation when they can't afford anything else. Granted, it is necessary to make sure that poor people are able to move, and it may be more urgent to make sure that poor people have that opportunity. It may not be necessary to think of people who earn a reasonable amount of money in that context, but they need to get the idea into the minds of people who earn just what they earn, that public transportation is also to be used. It's not because I care so much about them, but I'm saying this because it's necessary for us to achieve our goals and commitments in climate and to advance public transportation and make public transportation a real choice for people. So I use here the dirty words of a city line. In other countries, public transportation, especially by trains, is basically a natural and self - righteous part of the city's life, and is viewed as a means of getting around, the means by which people live, the resources of the broad population. Here in the capital area, we struggle to determine if buses should have special lanes. We've only come so far as to develop ways to live together. In fact, it is a matter of mere idealism to prevent buses from getting special lanes. A respectable president. In my district, the Southwestern district, there are a number of projects discussed, but all of this is to occur after 2024 and therefore is not as certain as it would be. Even when you think that it is to be financed, you feel that you are somehow in the air. The ransom speech. Now I'm political replacements, and maybe I'm not well enough at politics, but I was involved in the election campaign for the last election that almost all the candidates opposed the payment of a payment system, that transport benefits would be financed by subsidies. There was really only one man, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, then a minister who spoke for that way. Now, we're not going to get paid for anything. Maybe it's good. Maybe that's a sign of political development, but I think it would be even better if we had talked about it before elections and had the authority from voters to put in that discussion, without my going against abduction. Hv. paritaprevir In the last 10 years, the Ennis of Haraldsdóttir's daughter asked for money for transport workers, listed by votes, as was shown in her speech yesterday. [[The president calls.]] It shows that in recent years 20% have gone to the Southern District, 11% to the southwestern district, 29% to the Northwestern District, 5% to the city of Reykjavík, and 34% to the Northeast. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] 16% to the capital area. [[The president calls.]] In the capital area, 70% live. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u55	Again, the president wants to remind members that the sound of the bell is extremely uncomfortable for the people at home who will be the higher. The president must be in charge of the meeting, making sure that speakers do not go too far ahead of staging a program for the council. This bell bell was extended to Guðmundur of Thorsson, son of Thorsson, a council member of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andri Thorsson's divinity before the talk and discussion of the transport program, who always enjoys discussing transport matters. I noticed that he spoke with great knowledge - apparently - about a city line and how it was implemented. Not all of us have figured out what the word city line means, what it means to speak accurately, what it means to finance a city line. I have heard about the city line and the estimated cost or investment of 80 billion. Yet, I've always felt that there's a lot of confusion in what to use 80 billion people, what to do. Are they to be used to build light trains? To build new routines? More frequent street trips? Is it a mixture of light trains and bus and so forth? Is it larger transportation centers or other transportation centers around the city? What exactly is the city line? Then I might come to the question: I thought the senator would suggest that the discussion and debate over the city line focused mainly on whether we would agree to place special lanes for the bus or not. Is it true that a city line is about special streets? Does it cost 80 billion to do special things on top of the special ways that are present today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. A city line is natural, as was shown in this answer. However, the main concern is to start with what I mentioned, which is paying buses a special trip around the city area. That's the first stage we're talking about. It won't cost 80 billion, no. However, there is to be an agreement that the State will achieve this project and that these special lanes, which are supposed to be for buses in the urban environment, will cost both considerably and considerably. It is by no means easy to plant it everywhere. It's gonna cost some money. Similarly, building a fleet will cost something. It will also cost the money to increase the number of bus trips, so that the service is practical and acceptable for the civilian as I expect and hope to rest. A senator would agree that it is urgent to set up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u58	A respectable president. I think we can totally agree that it is important to strengthen public transportation and make it possible for most people to make it a practical option. We agree on that. That's why I miss a little bit of conversation about the city line putting up Cynical ideas: It's the first phase of growing the special lane for buses. I don't mind that if it reduces the number of accidents in the capital area and solves traffic knots, we're trying to sort out the budget. We're always stuck with the 80 billion town line discussion, and then it's completely unclear what they're going to do. If it's an operation we can get into right away, we can discuss it this way. Then, too, the city must be ready, and its rural areas in the capital area, to increase the number of trips on those lines immediately, not after 2019, or whenever they are going to experiment with it. We need to take the discussion from this point on. We need to view all the means of transportation in our capital city, how we can pay for it. I think we should just start at the beginning and resolve the project a little bit instead of linking everything related to city bus transport. Let us discuss this assignment for an assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u59	A respectable president. I think it's just the same thing with us. Senator. I have indeed that there is also a agreement within the government, at least within the governments, in any direction within the government covenant, in which it is specifically stated that a city line should be established. I have no doubt wondered how negative the discussion has been about this option that I feel must be almost the only option we have to usually get between places in the near future. This is a projection that the population of the capital area will increase by 70,000 people to 2040 - rather than 2035. So there's a huge crowd that's going to be here. And it's obvious that in this narrow space, the only car doesn't work. We need to start somewhere. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator says, we will begin with this phase. All I know is to prepare a bus route with a special lane, which hopefully will not meet too much opposition. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u60	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a Parliamentary arrangement for transport to the next 15 years, from 2019-22033 and along with a concierge proposal for transport from 2019-2023. There are so many things that depend on our transportation and on our quality of life, and living conditions depend on safe and safe transport. Thus, in many ways, transport is our community's life, and it is an important foundation in the economy and has much to do with the building of commercial channels, resource use and valuables. V.E.G. The secretary of transportation Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson made it clear in his introduction that for the first time, the transport program is in harmony with the expected budget; the budget of 2019-22023 adopted by the General Assembly for us. It is a joy to see that for the first time, this plan is practical and therefore reasonable. I'm going to say something. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, who said that the council should learn from the program we agreed on here in 2016 on an unrealistic, inexpensive request. This program indicates that we are learning. Thus, the strategy takes into account and is part of a comprehensive integrated policy in transport, communications, rural and rural affairs. It is in accordance with General and General's approved plans. Governments. The need for travel should then be considered especially in the schedule and considered for improved transport. Form in this respect, I believe that it is important, more dignified, that the plan is in line with a government budget, taking into account the main objectives of the security and needs of the industry and the community. That's why I'm glad that I'm looking in the long run, the way this is done, between the ages of five and then the age of 15. This is and in accordance with the No. 33/2008, and therefore, you will find transport policies and goals for all articles of transport to the next 15 years, which will be divided into three five years of time and will be the first period to 2023, where implementation and implementation programmes are stated. In 1st. The end of the law is: The aim of these laws is to coordinate planning for transport projects and transport. Unfortunately, we have not been able to do so here to fulfill their duties, a respectable president. So, then, that there is a number of initiatives involved in consultations and conversation, so that we can prioritize and work professionally on the contribution of this program. • developing policy-making programmes to achieve harmonisation of priorities and policies, to achieve the practical use of capital and human resources, and to achieve integrated transport practices and to cooperate with institutions and companies in this area. This requires enormous consultations and is important for successful implementation and for transport-related plans. The transport programme then takes out all transport resources and expenditures, i.e. Air travel, road, travel, and, including public transport, ports, marines, security, environment, and transport, should be used to define the basic network for transport and to identify the state and environment. The plan is based on these main objectives of transport being facilitated, economic, safe, and environmentally sustainable, as well as to contribute to positive development. What may be the most significant feature of the program we address here is the fact that all of these plans, including all of these, different branches of transportation, talk to each other. So it is, as mentioned in the discussion and the highest. Minister went over, working on a special flight policy that turned toward the flight. That's fine. Besides, it has to be taken into account that the funds of the state's funds are getting the best results and that we take into account the rest of our country's transport activities and so on, in individual parts of the country as planned. In a government contract, the highest. Governments are very clear: transport is a priority. The balance and opportunities of all the countries are to be taken care of, reliable in consultation and support for rural development in the development of infrastructure and rural development, and better done in ensuring national access to national services, employment opportunities, and economic incomes across the country. It's a plan. It's a plan. It's a plan. Governments. They appear in this program, and in fact they went to the highest level. Governments have begun immediately this year. The government was preaching the campaign of infrastructure, transportation, and this program certainly indicates that road development is being accelerated and other transport infrastructure activities, both by upkeep, by regular maintenance, and intensification. In setting priorities, different areas, tourism, and safety criteria are especially considered, as are the aims of the programme. There are other factors. I mention the international flight and other aspects into the country, regions for the development of tourism, public transportation, and cooperation with rural society, the possibility of walking and cycleing in urban areas, and especially telecommunications and fiber - these factors need to be considered in an effort to improve quality of life and to increase the opportunity to create employment. All of this is found in this program and important to keep in mind that this emphasis is the highest. Governments appear in this program. We need to evaluate them in the context of the Mosaic Law covenant and the plan here. A respectable president. This schedule is reasonable and realistic in this regard. She's in line with the highest plan. Governments that appear in a government contract and, likewise, in accordance with the laws of law, i.e. It is funded, taking into account basic goals, and is part of a comprehensive integrated policy of transportation, communications, rural and rural affairs. V.E.G. The government was already on this trip this year by responding to basic maintenance projects and the gathering problems of the past few years. The plan then aims to increase the budget for maintenance to 10 billion dollars. This year, 2019 C.E. A total of 160 billion are expected to be maintained on the road system for the next five years. Of course, we did get far with that amount, but it does not flaunt to meet a group of problems at that time and as fast as we would like. It has the highest. Transport Ministers pointed out, including in his speech, to call on the highest authority. A minister is considering the possibility of increasing the progress rate and increasing the amount of money by means of a so - called cooperative means of financing. I hope we can achieve a solidarity at the council on such advantages, especially because if there's anything to say, in a campaign and in a government contract, we may be too excited to accept. That is understandable. A lot of important projects and maintenance are important, but if we look at freezing on the development of budgets, we will have to look forward to a much longer future if we are to get started with many of these urgent projects. As to this plan, it can be claimed to be fully in line with the highest plans. Governments. It is in accordance with a government budget, which, in this respect, is a responsible, reasonable, financing transport building programme with a clear view of the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I agree with him that, of course, it is normal for a transport plan to be in harmony with a national financial programme. I understand why. A senator took a specific look at the matter, for he is the president of the court. The Senate budget. In this discussion about transport programmes, there has been some comments that if we are going to get more involved in the projects that are so necessary, we need to examine other ways. I heard why. A senator opened the possibility of looking at routes like a co-opportunity or PPP investment pathways, reducing the risk of the State. It enhances efficiency in the implementation of private funds, and as we use the more money in this way, they are not taken directly from the state's funds. I'd like to ask you a few questions about why. A senator sees flatly that the ideas of charges presented during the discussion somehow fall into the discussion. How does he support himself? I also want to ask him about what I am and what others have to ask him. Councilmen have been moving around, i.e. whether there is a chance to look at the financial balance of the state's funds, to look at all the financial resources that the state has bound in its various holdings, stocks or stocks of any kind, and to see if there is any reasonable value, whether there is any chance of fixing it a bit, taking a closer look at it, and making money available in the building of important and profitable transport initiatives.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's questions are good. First, I'm going to confirm that I'm very open to the fact that we're going that way. I'm just looking at the government budget, and the frame doesn't invite us to go faster as the situation is today. Like I studied in speech, I rejoice that we face up to what the frame allows us to do. At the same time, we must be reasonable and prioritised for the goals of transportation laws. In that respect, it is a good plan. I'm so fond of the word teamwork. It also states that the business council's review with the budget bill, the idea that we will be paying for individual means where it is wise to do so. I'm very into it. I'm going to let myself continue to use this fine word, cooperation, because that simply means that more people are involved. In order to improve safety, the Smokey Way, there are tunnels around the city's capital area. These are animals, and we have been with them for a long time, but we can't get on the program, such as Sunways, unless we do that. I think it sounds good. The Congress has passed its founding laws and that we begin to take possession of the government's property. Then we will have a better picture of all those assets, and we should be able not only to improve the spending rate but also to examine the financing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A good answer from a senator. It seems that we agree on how we approach our assignment. I hear that there is a possibility at the council that there will be an excellent agreement to take a closer look at the way we cooperate. Then there is the monopoly that the council cooperates with other partners and with the appropriate government we can expand it. I'd like to stop for a moment at the second point, which I introduced in a previous answer, the property of the state. Counts 'em out. A senator wisely examines the government's financial balance with which possessions can be sold in a reasonable and responsible way in order to allow the State to go into business? It must be kept in mind in this context as well as on the economic impact of such projects. Not to be sold in terms of property, especially business banks, so that such things are not handled well but must be sensible. The economic factors that can be floundering or producing power for production in the economy will be addressed. Mr. President. I'd like to hear a little bit better from what I heard. A senator's ability to see such work is to form within the financial committee, which is consistent with the procedure on transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u64	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank you. paritaprevir Björn Einarsson's tea for his questions and thoughts, big and important. As I came in earlier, we will be on better opportunities to evaluate the property of the state's funds and to give the politics a clearer view of what government's operation should be and what money is to be directed into, i.e. Clearer and more intensive priorities. Because of what? A senator mentioned the banks, and we in politics are talking about what the market can do and what the state should be doing. We have been through such a shock that when it comes to banks, it is normal for us to take a careful walk to the earth. Nevertheless, all transport projects are important, as is shown in the programme and in the discussion, important for economic growth, in the country, for the whole of jobs. That's why we're supposed to compare it this way, and I'm very into it. I simply assume that we will be better off, especially in committees of the council, to consider the matter in a way that is appropriate. A senator will come forward. I'm glad that there's already that thought. That's why it's a good discussion. We are to take the step of making a very clear assessment of the Kingdom property in connection with our expenses and how we should set our priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u65	Mr. President. These are suggestions for understanding transport plans, one through five years of age, the other through 15 years of age. Of course, driving is not a secret problem. In the past week, there was an idealavitation. Then we visited the members of Congress our districts, I the southwestern districts and every local community, and each meeting discussed the transport issues and anxieties that people have of increasing traffic and traffic weight. There are few ways out of town on its Seltiannes. Through Mosfellstown, Kopavog, Garden Town, and Hafnarfjördur are driven to Reykjavík, and all of these are concerned with traffic, and the number of tourists is involved, traffic from the airport in Chefavívík, which is spoken of earlier today by 2.3 million tourists. Of course they're worried about it. What I want to do and know is what you see when you're abroad, of course, there are roads within the towns, and then you're down the road, as they've been called. Why is there no greater emphasis on the fact that there are more than one way through the towns, such as. with top-in-the-line roads? Of course, here in Reykjavík, people are deeply concerned about traffic around our national hospital, a land hospital. We middle-class people have specifically noted that the national hospital should not be located in the middle town area but should be in an area where there is a good access, and I now speak of no better facilities to build up the health of the patients in need. For the highways of the country, there's a lot of traffic there too. One of the explanations, and what has not been explained, is that when all heavy transports, all transport services, were removed from the sea, they moved up the road. This is one of the things that happened, causing the country's roads to run a lot, except for the rise of the tourist currents. One factor is that the stream of travel is too much organized, so it is largely in the southwest corner, instead of trying to spread the traffic north, east, west. Our country of Iceland is very beautiful and it's important to distribute the tourists to our pleasant country. I would especially like to express my concern about how late Daffy Way and Smokeynes Way are going to get on your feet, as it were. That's 2024, six years. That's a really long time. These two ways are of great importance to get people to and from time to time. In this regard, I want to note that I find a more novel suggestion. A member of the Central Party, Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, who was appointed yesterday for the financing of the Smokey Way and finds it absolutely reason to examine. I also think it's very special that last night is already the highest. A minister was introducing a transport plan then seemed to be the appearance of other members of the administrative sector, and you saw it in the news as well this morning, being elsewhere in the introduction of its transport program. What does that say? I'm worried about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u66	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss the long and short - term transport strategy. In this discussion, there has been some comments about important projects that cannot be addressed on the scale set out for the next five years. In itself, there is something to do with it. But there has been considerable complaint that there is not enough money to contribute to the mobilization of transport initiatives that are certainly not found in this program, especially the short - term, since it seems that the next three transport ministers will fulfill as many of the promises or policies established. In itself, there is plenty of money in this country. You can, for example. articles show that the government today took up giving away a bank that she could have taken over. In the months past, it has already been observed that those who acquired this bank for sledges have paid off 10 billion dollars in interest that went to a hedge fund rather than a government fund. It has also been observed that due to the sale of Arion's bank on Backkeeper, the state was cut to about 2.6 billion. I mention two things that have cost a government fund of 12.6 billion, and it would certainly be possible to use them in the resources available here - that, Mr. President, the largest possession of Arazon banks is still unsolved, i.e. Valistor, the map company. They hesitated only to be sold in spring because of our high spoken language by the middle class. It is a possession that is included in the books of the bank at 17 billion, the price of selling is likely 70. In due time, profits will also flow into the hedge fund, and not into the treasure of the state. If people had made the right decisions at that time, we would have more to do and more to resolve the urgent issues here in solution. In itself, many would be able to comment on the priorities expressed in these figures. I could, for example. Note that it is natural to experience the revulsion of the two -fold Rhine Way, and the distance to the Dizziness Way is unbearable. Then, in the strangeest way, when you drive out of Annarfjords prepared to the south you'll be waiting a long time later. It's a very strange priority. In itself, all the money that has gone into the Earth's tunnel is small when people come out of the tunnel - yes, very much, they get to the next yard, talk out loud. I could talk about airports, too. I could talk about that in Akureyri, there's a handsome pile of rocks waiting to be loaded. It does exist, and it does not take too much to implement it. Meanwhile, we're in some kind of bullshit trouble over what the reserves are like. It doesn't matter whether we're taking Akureyri, Emends, or Reykjavík. All these fields are neglected in a very large way. Besides the fact that conditions at Keflavík Airport, the main airport in the country, have deteriorated significantly in recent years. It compares to the fact that they've gotten worse. Then I'm not just talking about flight conditions. I'm also talking about men taking the pole to the hill we can call ohf. It's not for--I can't say the devil myself, Mr. President, I know--no man to have ties on the ohfs that are at the people in Iceland. Whether we take the Isavia, RUSV, Mail, everything has to the same well; there, people play loose and do pretty much what they want without elected agents having the slightest effect on it. At Keflavour Airport, men chose, e.g. the bad priorities of building airplanes instead of building trunks. When you arrive at the Cheflavour Airport, it's like you're coming to a country airport in Sweden in 1975. You have to walk down the corridor in any weather and go to the bus. It's a pain in the ass. This will prevent us because we will not be able to push this out of our sleeve in the near future. It's boring, it's annoying, it's annoying. These are a few things we can sort out on this plan, but I'm also a little busy with the politicians on this one. I have to admit, after listening to a good discussion of these reports, that I doubt that these transport programs are the most important issues. It is as if one of the board of directors has its own transport plan. Here, from one independent after another, I have found the money and sense that this group of lndependence has changed their minds for the highest price. Minister who, in a campaign campaign 12 months ago, announced that there would be no reimbursement. Men have changed their mind for him in this regard, and then an old familiar theme was entertained in the conversations of Independence. They want to sell dairy cows, as they have sometimes done, they want to sell Leifs son of Erik. So each time lndependence opens their mouth to privatize, they choose something so difficult, the Fly station Leifs Erikson, the Freeway, the ATVR, something that is really hard to fire. But selling the Health Care Center at Patrecks'farm - there's nothing to worry about. They choose a worthwhile and challenging assignment. But it's just this: I'm sorry, and people have burned themselves before, e.g. In a bank sale, a man sells every cow only once. But by this presentation, independent men have funded the two transport programmes here on discussion and the Minister himself. I don't remember, Mr. President--in fact, I haven't had a very long Senate experience--if I've seen one of the proconsuls so terribly embarrassed by his colleagues, as some independents have done to a moving transport minister. I say, there is no trust there is, and it is also obvious that independence is done by programme two, where privatization and cover-up taxation in the form of roads should be replaced by other taxes. I ran into an answer at the highest. The other day, the head of innovation, tourism, and industrial development, where it was a bit causative because men were working on the charges. She said: " Where, then, are you going to take that money? I could point out something. A minimum of 1/3 of the expenses taken by car owners are not to be taken into account. I'm well aware that the independents don't want to add tax returns, not on the table, but on the back side of the road, which is natural tax returns, incomprehensible and masked tax returns, but a bit below the surface. Now I'm waiting very excited for two. I'm waiting to see if independents will make a real effort to submit their transport plans here at the council - that must be done on a committee - because that's when we also need members of the Parliament to decide which transport plan we're going to support. If the government groups don't have everything to do with the transport plans we're discussing here, then, as a good man said, we're fucked. It's not that comforting, is it? This is another example of how the government has a vast array of appeals, how far beyond this broad center men intended for bridges. Men don't go to rhythms. What surprised me most, except for the highest. A minister of transportation is under the untrusted Declaration of Independence, which appeared yesterday in long bears, that members of the VG were subject to sale at Leifs son of Erik's Flight Station. You know, people just sat here, so they're just sitting here. I used to be shocked and I didn't think it was on the left green policy to sell large assets on public property. In fact, I didn't think it was in the gate policy, though it's quite a while since I read it, which luckily. [[The president calls.]] I say again: We need to get it straight, Mr. President, what transport plan we're going to discuss here, is that the transport secretary's transport plan or the Independence Department's transport plan? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u67	A respectable president. I can't say anything else but that it's very interesting to listen to interpretations and explanations. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, who may not be new to the fact that he is missing a few things. I'd like to talk to you about what. A senator would not feel responsible for any who want to make more money for transportation to offer some suggestions, ideas in an effort to expand their transport activities. I'm asking the senator if he has any solution other than to suggest something that would include both both ◯ and ◯ tradition, if we had done this with the banking system, it would have been possible for us to use the money. It's not gonna help us get the money now. I ask him: If we succeed in finding the money in the government box compared to the development of the hall for the past few years and the requirement for priorities in many things, as we talked about earlier today about social security, health, and other things, if we manage to put 10 to 15,5 billion more on transportation every year, as the community requires, he thinks we'll be able to make priorities, if we find that kind of money? I'd like to ask him. Nobody's talking about a new transport plan. We're discussing this transport plan. If we find new ways and go new ways, we'll need time to implement them and do something else. This is in addition to the transport program we discuss. It can hardly be considered a riot, though a political party, even though he is a member of a government covenant, talking about routes and ideas in Polish, which did not enter the council as a new transport plan, but are only discussed as a means, as a responsible proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. In short, the answer to the first question is, In fact, I noticed earlier: The end should be considered at the beginning. A year ago, if men did what they had done, giving away banks on a hook, they would miss out on opportunities to get a lot of money in a government fund. There's no ◯ef- and a 'gain' with it. They made the wrong decision and must live with it. Therefore, I don't have the money in the plan because they made wrong choices last year. Something else I found very interesting to hear from. A senator was saying that men would submit an additional system of communication. We are discussing a transport program that will apply for the next 4 years. [[Up front.]] However, we are discussing a transport program that will last 12 years, are we not? So we're gonna bring in an additional plan? A supplementary plan to which plan? When will it appear? When should we discuss this additional plan? Is it acceptable for the government to submit an additional transport plan? What is that? This once again reveals the issue of government opinion. Of course, people attack the garden where it is the lowest and most vulnerable. That's why we have such a situation. Ain't no lack of money here, huh? Senator. A government government with great confidence to give the hedge fund to a bank with enough money, an enormous amount of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u69	Hv. A senator continues to talk about his acoustic pocus ways to gain a bank on a silver plate and shave into money there. I still haven't seen how these plans are going to work out, and I've given us money. That's why I'm asking, "What's the rush?" A senator to meet the social demand for increased transport, for more transport resources, in addition to the transport strategy we now have? How does he see it? Does he feel irresponsible and desperate to offer suggestions in that direction? Got it. In addition to what we will discuss, would a senator not be irresponsible if politicians offer other suggestions to increase the budget for transport? What are his ideas about that? So he says that 1/3 of what we collect from road transports... -...is not about transportation. [[To the point: If you don't...]] I think he should study things. All the funds that have been collected and specifically marked transport go there and more. It may be true that not all of the public expenses collected for transport are in place, but such expenditures go to run agencies around the transportation system, emergency departments, law enforcement, same - time agencies, and so on. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should examine the facts before making such a claim. I call for the senator to answer the question of how he sees the speed and speed of progress that we address in the programmes here. This is the money that has managed to establish priorities, and it's an increase of capital. There's quite a bit more funding in the transport programmes we've discussed than we've had in the past few years. How will he do more?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u70	President wants less of it. It is customary for a member of the council to address the president before discussing the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for coming up here using a word I didn't use. I didn't use the word "drunk". And I didn't use the word "irresponsibility." But he may find it for himself, that's the way it is. It's fine if he does. But these aren't my words. Those are his words. How are we supposed to do this? Actually, I told you earlier. The point is, we have various ways to get more money in the money budget. I remind you of the words I was talking about at the highest. Secretary of the budget recently since I pointed, for example. has been identified as U.S. agencies. For financial ministers, however, there would be a measure of financial gain, i.e. Governor, tax investigator, customs manager. These are the remuneration fees of the state's funds, when the due fees are paid, let me point to. It's like that. A senator, up to 1 percentage of the total collections pay in Iceland, has a total of about 5 to 6 billion dollars. There is no need to add new taxes or to make any other arrangements than to sponsor the State's debt agencies in order to obtain them. For five years I have pointed out that in particular here in the capital area, there is a black economy called the Airbnb, a tax cow. Happily, mankind is beginning to be trying to climb that system. There's fat ass skind, clearly. So if you focus on it, as I say - it's exactly right. A senator says, the opportunity for the state to take over a bank and to make an estimate of it is, unfortunately, being warned of it in his time and still being warned of it, and we still have everything to do about what we said about it. So there's no acoustic pocus solution. But you're welcome to go with it. A senator is exactly the way the Central Party wants to reorganize the financial system in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] There's no acoustic pocus in it. This may be informative and beneficial for what is happening. A senator to have a brief review of that matter. [[The president calls.]] We're ready to go over it any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u72	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a five - year transport program, a plan of action until 2023. The plan of action is in line with the framework of financial programmes for these years, 20191⁄223, or, in other words, that's "financial," and that's a big improvement. This strategy will be discussed together with the transport plan for the next 15 years, up to 2033. These are transport policies and key goals to be worked out. It takes into account other government policies and is integrated with various policy measures, such as a structured strategy, and it discusses transport funding. As I have previously stated from this platform, transportation affects everyone. They are the largest urbanities, but they are also health, education, welfare, employment, environment, culture, and so forth. So improved transportation is a hobby for many, and here I'm just going to come up with a few aspects of these plans, and a few important things, perhaps, that are not there. In many ways, I am very pleased with this transport program, but at the same time, we are concerned about how much we will do in the maintenance of the entire road system and, in fact, other transport workers. That is why we were able to get ahead of what is willing and who are crying in need of land all over the country. Still, let us never forget that we must hold back what has been built up, or we will waste valuables. That is why the additional amount of money that went into maintenance this year is incredibly important, and in the program 10 billion each year will be spent in the maintenance of the road for the next five years and will keep more. I'm glad that a transport program is a practical document on projects that could be attacked over the years, and this gives us an important insight. It is not unrealistic expectations, although in the next five years of action, there is more money for maintenance and implementation than ever before. A transport program continues to emphasize support and string up broken traffic distances, even though they do not meet the carrier resistance and roadline requirements. This is extremely important for the rural development of many children around the country, who daily go to school, nursery, or to attend leisure. This is also the basis for opportunities for employment and thus for economic prosperity in the community. Hopefully, too, it will be successful to keep an area where food production is kept in constant dust for a whole summer from dirt roads. Let us not forget that the dirt roads are still longer than the roads of a thread. Public transportation is an important task of great importance. It affects the quality of life for people, and well - organized public transport is a factor in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other factors. In fact, in recent years, public transportation has been an important attempt to reach land. Some have gone well, but other things have been wrong. From that experience, we must learn. I feel that it takes a full view of the whole country, but it also needs to be built up according to the specific status of each area. So here, countries and rural communities must work together to get more money from the same budget that is being spent on the project today and using the additional aspects of the plan. We cannot continue with this task in boxes that prevent efficiency. The last change was to get out of the special secrets' box, but we ended up in somebody else. There must also be public transportation, transportation, transportation, and transportation, linking the Internet to urban areas and rural areas. While it may be wise for flight to be the public transportation to individual locations, the flight will also have to connect with another route system. There are still no public transportation around the country, trying to fill the gap in the public transport as if it were possible to fill in the unaligned hole on the waterway in the bitter end. This link is important to draw out that the transport program aims toward the continuation of the current function of Reykjavíkur Airport while it is not considered as good or as better an airport as it can take on its role. There's also a need to link the airport to other public transportation immediately. A transport program has increased emphasis on road services, such as high - snow cover and snowstorm. This is well - known, since snowcapped areas are called after a new thought in a snowstorm, which takes into account a change in community development in rural areas where a section of the household needs to leave before the end of the day. Eight o'clock in the morning every day, but the plan of a marshe still depends on only one day's opening. In such cases, the needs of tourism have also changed the need for service as well as the needs of less - than - fewer roads. All projects on a budget are relevant to the environment and contribute to the increased opportunities for society as a whole. Among projects are the renewal of many large, monotonous bridges, which may be likened to the ticking of time bombs in the road system. It's supposed to be finished with Kappus Road, which creates opportunities and new foundations for construction on the Northeast Corner. There's a number of opportunities for a number of new round road routes that can raise tourism in the North and East in a new location. The northeast corner has 10 percent of the whole country's high, and there's fallos, and there's an icebox, and there's a lot more pearls, and there's a lot of other pearls. During the Western Year's Valley, the entire planned period, the link to an explosion route, one of four root roads in the middle of the highlands, will be completed. As a result, in the middle of the country, there is no root road north of the lakeland, but these roads are still a foundation for protection and employment associated with national parks or the protected areas of the central highlands. Finally, I plan to look to the part of the country where I live, East. The rest of the city will be finished in the next five years, that's a total of 28 miles. This is the only urban location that cannot be taken home without going through dirt. It is a road that not only serves many tourists but also residents of the city and its countryside. In many ways, paying was ahead of its time in the construction of tourism, making it travel hundreds of cars daily during the summer season. The workers in the East may ask them how often they drive the city soil because they know it takes tires to cope with extreme stress. There are more important work to do in the East than at the end of the work. The biggest projects are the Oxi, the Seyster Strait, the new Laer Sea Bridge, and the South Sea, where there are today. Four dangerous monomers of longitude and uninhabited narrow roads. A very important task that sustains society and increases security. In recent decades, I believe that poor transportation has led to reductions in Eastern Europe. I am referring to the removal of the Horningors to the Southlands and the harems to the north. The Far East must not shrink, and in fact, it would be best to grow back. Would that not be more practical for many of the state's operations of a quarterly and national structure? The opportunity for community development and competitiveness in this part of the country is based on better transport. The absolute bioavailability of the human species and natural resources would be much better if it were shorter between symmetrical and thus the structure more dense. Happily, the people of the East are experts in using technology to cooperate. Yet, I have a full understanding of the concern that at the end of a project, it will not be able to see how long distances are being made and to expand the work area until 10 to 15 years. This tells me: In some way, we have to spend a higher proportion of our national productions on transportation than we do now. In this discussion, more than a portion of the speakers have discussed other methods of financing, and I cooperate with the means of financing. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not get ahead of ourselves. I think the bad news is the best thing to do. We will never be able to handle all the transportation at the same time, in which there is no sense. Let us stop creating unrealistic expectations. The Minister of Transport and Foreign Affairs has issued a bill for the payment and for the future funding of the road system. I will also use the Environment and Transport Committee to discuss these issues with regard to transport programmes and to consider what projects would be successful as a cooperating project. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Nice senators. But let's just take one step at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech and a approach. However, there is one thing I would like to request further explanation, a word that I have previously heard in this discussion today, that is the so - called cooperation project. I would have liked to know more about what is meant when it comes to cooperating. We've been talking about the possibility of additional funding into the system in order to build up faster and better. It would be interesting to know more about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson responds. As I define it, cooperation may be a variety of forms of cooperation between public and private parties, such as In the Vaults. I think it is very important that a broad discussion of what cooperation can take place within the framework of such projects. The number of people in this country has been learning how, for example, to find out how. Entres and Norwegians win. I find it very interesting to follow through. There are also some possibilities in technology that create a completely new basis for this kind of cooperation. It's like the highest. A report to the Ministry is expected at the end of the year. Of course, I'm waiting to see what it says. As I mentioned in my speech, the minister has been proclaiming a bill when the end of this year or early next year, which also gives us the opportunity to work until that time, and as the bill comes to the council to further update the means of financing that we have access to because of our transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u75	A respectable president. That explains it. Then we're talking about the same thing when we talk about taking some extra money. I have to say, I don't care in myself if the cat is white or black while hunting mice. No matter what name we say to mention it, it's just the best thing, while our goal is the same. I'm glad to hear it. A senator and, indeed, more members of the council have realized that, of course, the picture is now becoming clearer to the abilities of state funds in the coming years of a travel program. I spoke to certain ideas in my speech yesterday, which actually point to the same purpose. A senator speaks for himself. I look forward to our discussion with the committee. As mentioned at the highest. A minister at a meeting of the Committee this morning as he reviewed his Constitution, he is very positive about this if cross - laity or more interconnected, and cooperation across this matter cross-groups. The discussion has changed as the picture has become clearer, not just in the council but in the general community. I think it's an opportunity to understand it now for transport jobs and to take action sooner than later on on the basis of these ideas, and thus to get ahead of yourself because of high expectations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u76	A respectable president. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, we have exciting times ahead of us on the Environment and Transport Committee to review both programs and discuss their priorities at the highest level. Transport and rural government minister opened up in his history, i.e. Communicators in financing and their different forms and how practical it is to increase the speed and investment of transport. We also need to remember that in this program, transport has never received more money than it is now. We're also thinking about the performance of the executives. The design of these workers is a challenge, but surely there is much design and design. Still, we must be careful not to get ahead of ourselves. It takes time to prepare transportation. It takes time to design. It also takes time and time to study geology and biology and society in order for us to choose the right ways. And with the development and development of the future, there will also be unexpected changes that we may need to take action. There's going to be a change in travel behavior, we know it very well. Traffic is increasing. There are new risks and new needs for services. As I ended my talk earlier, I'd like to say that it is very important to keep it in mind that we take one step at a time. I look forward to work on the Environment and Transport Committee for the next month.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u77	A respectable president. We're gonna talk about quality issues here, number one. I want to make it my subject that I think we can do a lot of good by strengthening, and we have space within the program to strengthen it. What I'm witnessing is country roads all over the country. They are classified to several factors, e.g. crossways, local roads, roads, and root roads. Such roads are vital and require building and maintenance in very many places around the country. They serve a big part. They are key roads for driving schools, key roads as connections within communities, rural communities, and employment areas. They are important ways to find our main tourist attractions, the highlands, the canyons, the lagoons, and the glaciers. Within national parks, within peaceful areas, and in other places, they are completely shallow. They also play a vital role in agriculture, since farmers have to take care of the roads with their livestock and for their farm life, fight, and care of the ground. There's not a lot of money in it. The money we add to that fund will raise a giant in many parts of the country. I think we should put the focus on it. By spending more money on the fund, we help all over the country, not just in a specific district or a local community, but as we know, the debate on transportation begins at the same time: What economy gets the most? Which area gets the most? I think we have a good job here. We should try to do better. Low sums of money can be very effective. I'd like us to focus on this. There is something more important that we need to consider. I listed many different types of roads in many parts of the country, but we also have a variety of different types of flights, different sizes, and different uses, which are very important. We must not forget them during the discussion, for they are so far overstepped. Then it's the harbors. They are not always the most popular topics because much projects are under sea level and no one chooses them. But they are many of them. The ships are changing, the use of them is changing. They need to be maintained, deepened more than ever has been done, increased marine protection, and other sources of protection. It is very important that we do so and keep our eyes on it. When we discuss the airport, the discussion is usually about international flights at Keflavík Airport and then another international airport today. However, I would like to mention that it is important to also allow the smaller airports to open up for ferry flights and other things that receive less planes, both for tourism and also for environmental reasons, so that there is no need to fly to Cheflavík before flying to the other locations. This is a security issue, it's environmentalised, air routes across the sea are reduced by allowing the landing of such planes at airports such as the Hornfjordur, the Western Islands, and the island of Iceland for example. That's extremely important. Much of the smaller airports that are hardly used, however, need to be maintained by public defense. They are part of making sure that people of certain areas can be ferryed. Not to be overlooked. Other things we need to keep in mind about transportation are public security, how people can escape from territory, how we can save people from areas when something big is happening in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. This has called attention to the discussion of today's transport program and yesterday and, in fact, seems to be going through an independent lawsuit that they do not feel that there is much to do. In fact, it might be said that the Independence Party has started a meeting campaign over its own transport program. That's what I want to ask myself. Councilman: Do members not support the transport program presented here? It's new to the highest. The secretary of transportation is not the trust of members of the council in the contribution of a transport program and the routine at the council? Do members of the United States think it is so difficult for them to reexamine the work here, according to the council campaign of the country for which they are spoken, that it is best to see the new transport program of the Independence Party in this government community?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u79	A respectable president. I cannot help but hear the discussions here on the transport program and on recent districts and beyond but that everyone agrees that transportation is not enough. They need to be lifted. I have also seen in my discussions that many have agreeed as high as possible. It has been discussed ever since he produced this transport strategy, that there are other means, such as currency or cooperation, and other ways to increase transport resources. One way or another, you need to respond to the thought that your income is contracting. As far as I know it is, it's the suggestions that we members of the Independence Party have been discussing here and elsewhere. There's nothing else going on but taking this discussion, taking it inside our party, what our voters want to do about it. Do they want to take up a currency to finance increased transport projects in addition to this transport program? We're not introducing a new plan, we're suggesting ways to add. Do we want to go on a further budget for the government or to sell property or other things to take on national and national important transport projects, or do we just want to have the same state of mind? Continue at this time? We've been telling you all along that transport program as high as possible. A minister makes it very understandable, and we express the full willingness to cooperate with her at any given moment. Environmental and Transport Committee. We understand the position of the Minister. This is the funding he has from playing. This is more funding than has previously been put on transportation. Of course, we share in that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u80	Hv. A senator has to respect it to me even though I am a little confused. But, of course, it's becoming the norm in more litigation groups, such as the medical department, where health ministers seem to have one policy other than the Independence Party. There seems to be a situation where a travel minister is measuring a transport strategy as if he had to, but the Independence Party has started working on some very different plan. Now I can say something like that. Of course, a senator's work is being done on transport in general and on many urgent assignments that will not be reached in many parts of the country, especially on the southwest corner until the latter stages of the long - term program, the 15 - year schedule. This certainly attracts attention. You ask yourself, " Do I submit to this program and the Minister such as this have the trust and support of the Independence Party, according to the method of working here? ' I would now have thought that the normal course of this would be for people to negotiate these matters at the government table and then take their jobs to the council, but they would not go on their own campaigns on some completely different plan. Perhaps you should ask why. A conquistador of the Second Opportunist: Were there any warnings made about the transport program when it was arranged by the Council of Independence? Does she have the support of the entire council?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u81	A respectable president. Of course, an easy - to - do transport plan was well discussed in the House of Independence, and it was done out of progress and safely. Some had general warnings, but it was no more than that. We are willing to take up all that discussion and work on this transport program, of course, as it has to be done. I think it's a little strange that there's a lot of surprise. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, along with others, that interested members of the transport sector and eager to make further transportation possible not only come here and ask for more money from the state's budget, saying: "I'm not going to agree with this transport program unless the Smokenes Way is hurried, unless it is time for the Elfurbian Bridge. You want me to come here and say it? Is it not more responsible that I discuss some of the ways in which I can finance these projects so that they can be rushed, made a conversation? Isn't that all normal? All of a sudden, is it amazing that members of the Independence Party handle transportation and political issues, and how can transportation be accelerated? I don't know any better than even that. paritaprevir The chairman of the United States, Logi Einar Einar Einarsson, would be here as quick as to how little is going in his district. Is that how you approach it? People want from me when I come up here and talk about a transport plan? I don't think so. I will continue to discuss how we can take larger steps in transportation. It takes time to discuss such a big, emotional matter. It is not recommended unless taken in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u82	Mr. President. In this second talk of a five - and - 15 - year - old transportation plan, I especially want to move toward the west side position, for a reason. In 1960, weather conditions remain in many respects if they are not removed from different transports, especially road conditions. It is clear that Westerners have not yet been linked to the network of transport systems in other parts of the country. I noticed especially that the Supreme One. A secretary of transportation says that in this transport program the priority is to get the weather into the base, to fix the road, and so forth. That is well, and in many ways these two methods of transport indicate that it exists. That's very good. The intended implementation cannot be considered without pointing out the obvious defect in this schedule. So, in particular, I refer to the project on Dothinghön and Bilruddal Road set up on the second and third part of the programme until 15 years of age, not to complete the Carding Valley Road and Dolfunginski until possible at the end of the second part of the plan, or in 2028. It is estimated that in three years following the introduction of animal soil tunnels, Darundindi Road is under way. Then, three years after the tunnel is opened, the main weight of that money is placed in the Dendering Shrine. That, Mr. President, is not acceptable. It is impossible to offer Westerners, people, the position of having to wait longer for the ability to drive a modern - day road. This is a point I believe to be the highest. Environmental and transport committees must be reviewed. I know it won't be easy to reach an agreement here at the council on how to change the internal priorities of the plan, but I don't think that's an acceptable one, and I believe that a body of Congress will show complete understanding that the Westerners remain trapped in 1960. There's another thing I'd like to come in on. There's a planned operation on the Gufudal Squad. Now I know the highest. A transport secretary is very involved in the implementation of the first part of the 15 - year strategy. As I mentioned in my first speech, it's not enough to have a plan, it's not enough to have money, it's gotta be the way we're going to do it. This operation in the Gufudal Army has been stopped in the administration room for some 20 years. A year ago, I gave a bill that was to authorize a convention of Gufldal forces with other members of the district. It was a year ago, the case is still stopped. How will we get into this work? The Senate must take a special look at how this work is being carried out. Congress has declared its will. Money is there. But it still seems to be in the administration. That, Mr. President, is not acceptable. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u83	Mr. President. What an interesting discussion! It's a little difficult to throw angry at where individual senators are going. We listened first to a talk. A senator who spoke last of his platoon brother, huh? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, discuss the plan. He went to great lengths, believing that it was natural for humans to have the freedom to think about things. It's all well to say, but he came out with that memorable question, with a very loud voice, would it really be expected that he would come up and speak of his district? No, you are not supposed to talk about your district in such a talk. Hv. paritaprevir Björn Einarsson's speech began with the idea of turning straight into his own district and finding it, and I couldn't better hear, most of them for the preemptive proposal for a transport plan. This was also shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur's Árnason of the Year said that members of the Independence Party had been tried. I must say, is it? paritaprevir Björn Einarsson is one of the members of Parliament who made a warning? What were they?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u84	Mr. President. Hv. A senator had a very long and strange prelude to a very simple question. So I'm going to do the same, and I'm even going to wonder. A senator had first listened to my first talk as I studied the most general transport program. A secretary of transportation, discussed what would be good, what views were new, and should be considered especially in the contingency of the programme, for the development of safety or interfaces in the rural areas. There are many good things to consider and how to lift. I also discussed some of the advantages available if it is the will of the council to attack more quickly on various projects, but I also specifically stated that they are right by the Supreme Court. Ministers to provide a realistic transport strategy that would be in harmony with financial programmes. Mr. President. I'm not sure that's what I'm talking about. A senator got divorced when he came up against us, for my answer is as good as heard. A senator asks about a very good no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who did become quite far from his point of view, but he chose to put it into question and thought it was all very well, since I had been premeditated with the question, and it was all very well taken care of. Hv. Yet, a senator made a clear answer, and I respect it. Then the question is, maybe. A member of the Parliament explained the warning given by members of the House of Independence in the transport program? That's all there was to hear from a case. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, but such a warning would have been arranged. I think it is very important for all of us to know and hear it clearly, especially for the highest. A secretary of transportation, which team of the Independence Party will put him in the transport program that a minister himself described as being realistic and of full financial value. That's what I'm talking about. A senator and a member of the Independence Party disagree with the highest claim. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u86	Mr. President. First thing. A senator is so interested in what goes on at the conferences of the Independence Party can help him to see that there is only one way for him to find out what is going on there. I'm not sure he's interested in going that way. That's why I don't quite understand what's going on. A senator is trying to draw out what he is trying to do. A protocol program has been submitted. She's been taken care of by the House of Independence. The general warning given is to go and discuss its material aspects during conquistador, to call for information, to call for the position of other members of Congress on various opinions or points that need further attention, is the standard, natural, and proper treatment of Congress, and nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u87	A respectable president. I cut it down in the words of a man. A senator said that he spoke of encouragement to reason. Environment and transport committees on changing the internal priorities of transport programmes. I think it's interesting. Why should the transport committee, without much of the material reasons, change the priorities of the national organisation, e.g. have agreed in their area on the priorities of transport? However, I understand very well that there are a number of projects that could be made faster. I suggested that road stress could be reduced by several means and by means of which road construction has pointed, which would save on maintenance and such projects and to free further projects. That would be interesting. I ask about the basis for thinking that an environmental and transport committee will make changes without a highly objective basis and a total of rural areas in that area: Why should the Environment and Transport Committee and, in fact, the Parliament make a big difference from the approved ones available on the priorities of transport?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council asked the question, so it's only natural to ask about the point presented in my speech. It is so that the national part of the Western European Union, the Vestjörður Union, has pointed to this flaw. The soil, the beast's tunnel, and the Doth of Dammin, is a work together. If it's not yet being attacked by Daringhön, the wises have thrown it forward, and perhaps not to do anything wrong, that it would be better to drive in the tunnel, and then there would be one huge call in the Eagle's Park, where men would drive back. [[Up front.]] It's not just a laughing matter because it's actually the situation, at least Through all the winter months. [[The president calls.]] It is a consistent procedure to attack the Earth's Vermicide and carry out on the Duguendir. That's what I'm pointing at. A transport program reports that as soon as three years after the use of the animal tunnel, heavy loads of Daringrimur occur. This is what I'm asking the World of Congress to look at, so the investment in animal tunnels gives way to society and the whole country, that it has some significance. That is a point to consider. I realize that the inner examination will not be quite easy, but it will not be easy. The Environment and Transport Committee, to examine all those aspects, to see what you can do, to how things are being done, and to how they are. We have also considered ways to go faster on a variety of projects, e.g. by means of co-ordinates, roads, or even state balance checks. Thus, certain projects, major projects in the capital area, could be accelerated so that other projects could be created in a country that is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u89	A respectable president. I understand why. A senator, but I asked about something else. The answer is what? A senator gets me to repeat the question and add it. Is another approved projection in the West for a series of projects but presented in a transport plan? Is the road across the West following the animal tunnels at the top of the priority list that has been approved in that area? If so, why are they not reflected in the transport program? Is it because the area is not ready to complete this procedure? Does it have something to do with the road and the preparation for that section to do that until three years later, and that is why it is in a different priority? These are questions that I find necessary to review and compare, the transport plan, the order of projects there, and to agree on priorities for the national community. There are issues to consider and find why there is a difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u90	Mr. President. As I understand the matter, the fourth contact between the West and other stakeholders is clearly overlooked as to the fact that the action, the animal tunnel, the Doth of the Earth, and the Bilddal Road, will not be separated. I haven't seen anyone else come to say that it would be most understandable to have all stopped for three years and to wait on the project that needs to come after animal funerals. That's what I call attention to, and I think it's urgent to be examined, how to make this intertwined. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u91	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about a five-year transport plan and a 2033 transport plan. The five - year strategy was published by a secretary of transportation who said that the five - year plan was abdicating and that there had never been more to transport in financial terms, such as in this strategy, and it may well be true than we Iceland have ever had today, and the use of the transport system in which the need has never been so great as it is now. I say as some others have said this plan is rather backweight. After five years of growth, I don't quite understand how this funding is going to be done, how all of a sudden you can add after the five years. But all right, time must tell you. In fact, considering the urgency of the need, we are very much behind in Iceland. In effect, the historical explanation for this is that we are working in many ways at what happened in 2008 at the time of the crash, and everything went on its side. Since then, we've been straightening up, but this has been a major problem on transport, and perhaps most of the time because we're much longer behind it than in many other matters, which are what we call internalization. I've been very alert to the extent possible in order to get ahead of us in transportation. Then, of course, I'm talking about roads the most. It is true that the same thing is true in the docks as in flights, but most of it is said about road transport. At one time, about 2006, it was e.g. I think, when it got back, it'd be better off at Kjalarnes. Or it would be possible to list other forms of transportation that did not occur for the reasons mentioned above. The things that have caught my attention were already there. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson came here yesterday and said that his party was performing a six-year travel program, apparently being done yesterday up in Valhalla. At that time, I was very curious and also slightly surprised that this was to be done because they are in the government together, an independent party, and a forwarding party. Still, I'm glad that there are ideas that I'm actually going to see what happens, what they're hiding, and it's gonna be fun to keep track of them. The fact is that driving has increased dramatically, and there are 2 million tourists who arrive in the country each year and are heading for 2.3 million this year. They drive around the country, and of course they pay taxes through oil and gasoline, like others, by driving gasoline and oil cars. When we talk about a possible road injury, the discussion seems to go a little off because people want this money to be taken from a government fund through what has always been financed, but as we have already seen, the need is to get our tails and they need to look for other ways. If all those foreigners driving around the country had to pay for roads somewhere, I think they wouldn't be shocked. When you travel abroad, you pay for everything, and you just do it. It has been shown by the modern - day Half - land tunnel that only people pay for it, those who use it often less cities, and so on in the streets. This does not necessarily mean that everyone is paying the same price, that there are ways. That's what I said before. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who actually ran from the house when I went to a pita but not because he was so afraid of me, but he just didn't notice that I went back, that I was excited to hear what this plan of theirs would be, it's exciting to wait for it. It's been observed here in speeches that the country is in great trouble. Hv. A senator who spoke before me, Totto Björn Einarsson, spoke of the Vestlands. I can't believe it's so that in three years, the Daringindi Vader will be ready when the Earth's tunnel gets in the way. Hopefully, there will be ways to get it in the sink. The issue is urgent and investment in transport is what we need to be determined to do. Not only is there the need to improve local transportation but it is also for the people who live there to build up the land. Bid up on land. It is this factor that has been talking about for so many years, recovering facilities from all over the country for infrastructure. I just have to say, as it is, that I am reasonably optimistic that we can go on that road very fast, considering what you read in this program. I'm not gonna have more to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u92	Mr. President. I want this discussion about the transport program to approach things from just another point of view but most likely in this discussion. I'm not going to discuss a certain road or part of a country in my speech. However, I would like to lower the latter part of the past discussion, to draw attention to and put into context what is discussed in the chapter on goals and emphasis on the proposal for a judicial resolution of the transport programme before 2020, 2020. It discusses the easy - to - travel goals and aims for the development of the one integrated network of people who serve both employment and the population to the best of their ability. Emphasis given to achieve these targets is 2,1.3 discussing the availability of motor - working workers and the best - chosen access to the transport system. It is of utmost importance that this is in here and shows that we are making major plans, such as transport plans, we are working as a result of the UN Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People, which is precisely on the issue of disabled persons in all the affairs of the state, plans and laws set and approved. But what I'd like to draw out is that as much as this is, it has to go all the way, with all the planning of the road system and everything that has to do with the whole transport system. It is relevant to any design, including design, but it may be more urgent and complex when it comes to public transportation. I feel that it is important to draw it out - because on page 18. 31 points out that in force there is a contract between a country partner in the capital area and the state, about experiments in public transport - that those involved in the project will be aware of this point. I'd like to direct it to the highest. Minister as well as his finest staff in the Ministry to remember that the access issues need to be considered. This involves not only the preconceived transport but also the design of transport edifications, that it is available to enable people with different degrees of speech, whether deaf, visually impaired, or motorly impaired. This is also important when we consider the traffic flow and the movement of pedestrians and walkers, for the design of footpaths that serve those who travel in two equally miles is not necessarily the same as that of those who travel with blind sticks or wheelchairs. Because people on bicycle suffer a different angle than those who use wheelchairs to get in between, horse racing is not necessarily suitable for wheelchairs. Here we as a community simply need to practice, to think about these matters from start to end. We're gonna go for a second. For example, members of Congress, as well as others chosen to be members of rural governments, must remember that this also matters when it comes to transportation and the affairs of disabled people. The subject of disabled people is not merely about the payment around government payments. As terribly important as the forwardness of people, of course, when a person as a whole wants to be involved in society. This is also relevant to the discussion of the proposed changes in the social security system, where the importance of promoting community participation in people with impaired ability and, in particular, professional participation in disabled people and those with impaired function has been much expressed. A recent study of support and inhibitory factors in the employment of disabled people found that those who have their own car feel that it is easy to get to and from the workplace, while the bus and travel services of the disabled were a barrier to those who do not have their own cars and therefore have difficulty getting to and from work. It hangs together. That's why I bring these things up in my discussion of a transport plan. But it is also practical for the State, when it comes to cost. As with other factors, it is usually best to consider the primary endpoint. It is much more practical to design things from the beginning in order to take into account the bioavailability issues, since changing manpowers is so expensive in the final meters after they have been built. I'm not going to extend this discussion any more than I hope to get to the top. A minister takes note of this challenge, which, in fact, comes out of my speech and that as members of the Senate, we will continue to have our finger on this pulse.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u93	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna extend the discussion a little. I am so glad that we have a transportation program. It has that plan, like any other matter, that there is one thing and another that I would like to have different things. I don't think I've been able to find one language of Congress since I got into Congress six years ago, which I've completely agreed with. This is a good plan. It is in harmony with financial planning, priorities are based on objective views, and therefore I support it. I believe, because I'm married to a woman from the Aegeans, transportation is extremely important. I can say the highest. Minister I missed the Lumbund Ball now in the Islands a week ago because they sailed out of the village. I hate it, it's too long to sail for me. So I missed the season. Why is transportation so important? It is not just to make things faster, feel better in the car, not just to reduce accidents. They are very important in order to remain competitive and to increase the competitiveness of the country in foreign lands. In the country we are closer to food production, fish farming, shorter and easier to carry, etc. It's very important. Most important of all, transport is vital for our country's tourism. We are trying to build a serious business, the tourism, which has become very important, and it can be even more important if transportation becomes better. According to this, transportation, improved transport, is an enormous investment. Here the emphasis has been on doing even more, raising more money to go faster on the projects we know we have to go on so that things are fine. There may be three things that have become more and less evident in talks. It is a question of some kind of road tax, some cooperation with a private person to speed and finance, and most important, that may remove property that belongs to the State, which we can say is less efficient and better transport. I think we should take a very close look. We're talking about an investment in transport that will, of course, be paying off with improved opportunities for real work. It's also a bit of an equality between parts of the country. I've told you before, there are three things that are important to all parts of the country, i.e. It's good transportation, energy, electricity, and communication. If the three things are all right, it doesn't matter where a job is put down. At that time, the site and country may be more populated, rather than gathering all of this in the southwestern corner. I wanted to mention those aspects of a transportation program. We must not be sensitive to the fact that we want to try to do this more quickly or to the ideas of men to add to the way I mentioned it. I think that's a good talk. I kind of support all the factors, i.e. areas where they will be affected, and there is a favorable, private cooperation to speed up projects and then to consider that the State will dispose of possessions where investments are less efficient than in improved transport. I think there's good reason for an environment and transport committee to cover, even with a financial committee, whether we can add more without disrupting all financial programmes. So I'm also pointing to the highest. A secretary of transportation, we should all consider that. I think it's very important. It's simply that way, and it's been a long time, sort of, since I remember, that most other things are presented for improved transport. It's as if we always think we can wait with them, because it's not an emergency, people get around somehow, even if it's not always, every day. Then there is another advance. That is why we have been sitting around for a long time and slowly getting up in better transportation, much too slow for decades. It hasn't mattered that it was better. I believe we should examine every possibility that we might find to speed this up and do even better than is suggested in our excellent transport program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u94	Mr. President. The independence party members are following one another in discussions about transport programs, shorter and longer, and actually speaking against them. I'm just thinking, aren't these groups together in the government, in the Independence category and in the forwarding category, whose head is the secretary of transportation? Then I'll just go around on the facebook and see that the independent party held a big meeting in Valhalla yesterday and introduced their own way there, some ideas about a different route in transportation. [[There's nothing new.]] So I'd like to ask you why. paritaprevir Briggs Níelsson: Were the transport plans we deal with at the council not taken care of by the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u95	V.E.G. President. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir came into the discussion a little earlier, she might not have asked this question, some have asked her.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u96	You weren't talking them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u97	No, I didn't speak against this transport plan. It's not just a matter of time. A senator had not been here to listen to my previous talks; she did not even listen to my talk. I didn't speak against this transport plan. I praised you very much. Transporter for a good plan, based on financial views and in accordance with financial programmes. I was very happy. There is no problem with the Party of Independence. He is a relatively problemless group and has been a long time, with good control of him, which is not applicable to all members of the council here at the council. It doesn't change that. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, that members of the Independence Party are very concerned that we can go further without disrupting a financial program with the points I mentioned earlier in my speech, i.e. with possible roads - men must not forget that if we pay on a road, we'll get a lot of new payments that we don't get in other taxes and cooperation with private people. Then perhaps some of the government's property can be sold and the value put into an even better investment, which involves improved transport. That's what I'm thinking. Although I mention it in my speech, I am not speaking against this transport program. She's all right. But I say, as in any other matter I've supported, that I might have liked to have one thing more in line or just different, etc. There's nothing new. But I'm here to support this whole process of transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynjar's armored Níelsson for the answer and can tell him, as he no doubt knows, that there is more to listen than here in the chamber. I listened carefully to his speech as well as to the talks of other members of the Independence Party, who preach a different way of transportation at the same time as the highest. The secretary of transportation is preaching the route of the government. The senator may be able to support this whole process of transportation, but he may point to a modern source of information. Yet, you wonder, when it's called a different route than the one that's being introduced here as the government's route, what private members of the government stand for when these two old friends, the Independence Party, and the forward party are together in the government, preaching the way of the government and some other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u99	V.E.G. President. Of course, I'm not preaching any other way. [[Up front.]] I'm not preaching any other way. I'm just reassembling my party's policy, and there's nothing wrong with it, and I've done it before, even though I'm in a government business together. I think that's okay, too. There's a lot of support in these transport plans. These old friends, an independent party and a forwarding party, have easily solved their issues and have met together. [[Up front.]] Other classes are not always possible. So I'm not worried about this, okay? A senator, thinking that the government is united and on the same path as these policy-making programmes, and will push this forward. Even if it is, however, it is all right for a person to go over things. I think I know that the highest. A traveling minister would be happy to have more money to do more and to add to this transport plan, but I do not doubt it. Although individual members of the council were found discussing how to go further and do better, that does not mean that there is some confusion in the administrative home. There's something else. Never better to be there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armor of Níelsson's son for his speech. How satisfying it is to hear that he supports the arrangement that has been set out and speaks of it as good and full - time! He also made mention of the importance of transportation. If we look at the transport program, it's not only numbers from Excel document but also goals set up. The primary objective is solid and sound infrastructure. I'd like to do a little bit of a little of a plan that's good and that's worth it. The international airports and the backup airports aren't filled with money, that's just so. The rise to the backup and internal flying system is a dissociation of half a flag. That's not enough. Hv. A senator also made a statement that there are three ways to increase money; a road ticket; a way to cooperate; and to dispose of possessions. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson: What property is to be sold? At what price? Will it be gift - seeking, as is the recent sale of a bank?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u101	V.E.G. President. If there's anything I can do, it won't be a gift-giving thing. I am a very cheap man when it comes to the property of the state. [[The point is, and in general, you can just see.]] And in general. I don't have the answer right here and now what property it should be, so I said that we should take a close look at the management of the situation if any property I have no doubt about being in many places was a better investment in improved transport than in the investment that it now holds. One of them could probably be banks. I think it's a terrible investment for the state funds to sit with hundreds of billions in a bank today, totally terrible. Of course, there is a need for practical action when a person gets a lot of government property, but I am convinced that it is a better investment for a government fund to place the value of a bank in an improved transport system than to enter such a venture yourself. I'm sure there would be other factors. We have a variety of possessions, a business that I think is better off with others. This can be valuable, it can be sellable, and others can even make it better than the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son answers. I asked the question because I'm not in opposition to the efforts of the State. I'm not opposed to looking for ways to achieve society's goals. Sadly, though, the story tells us that many times when such things have been done as a result of the fact that they are for society, things have not been quite successful. If they are gone to search for them, I ask men to take the lead in taking a careful step toward the earth and the challenges, to recognize the value, and to see if they are really valuables that pay to rid the State of private hands. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the level of service is not reduced after such assets are placed in private hands. Paybacks are nothing more than taxes, even though citizens are using them, just like a credit or a tax paying on which they had to sell. There are taxes, and I think it would be appropriate to talk about them in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u103	V.E.G. President. There's no disagreement between me and what. A senator must be careful when selling possessions. All of this should be weighed, where all of us are concerned. There is no difference. I believe, however, that there may be differences between me and the other. A senator's concern is that if a business goes to a private person, the service will be worse. We have no experience with that, rather the other way around. I'm not worried about that. I don't disagree with you about that either. The senator's due payment is tax. Fishing costs are taxes. It's all tax on certain groups. There's no division there. I'm simply saying that if we are going to speed up projects that I think are highly profitable, it can be totally justified to have such taxes. So it's a tax that goes way more than just Icelandic citizens pay. In this regard, the tax is wonderful. I don't think there's any disagreement between me and that. A senator only in part that I generally believe that when it comes to it, business is better with privates than with the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u104	A respectable president. Two brief moments later, which I failed to attend in my first talk. Just airport business. It is a specific base of flight selection defined by the Istavia IP manual. It defines a number of airports, all in the transport program but two, i.e. ... ina sheep'shouse and a Capitol. They are not specifically reviewed in a transport program. Then you wonder why they let go. Does this mean that they are being pulled out of the grid and redefined as registered landing sites, or were they forgotten in some other way? I wondered if there should be a harmony between the manual and the transport program. Regarding airports outside the network or registered landing sites: Shouldn't they also be taken into account in a transport program, where they are very important for training pilots, amateur flights, and medical flights, to name something? I hope to find more answers to that question. So if a minister is not involved in a final talk, if he is interested in it and is willing to do so, that will be revealed to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u105	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for a very interesting, objective and balanced discussion of the transport program. If I put it together, I've understood the tone so that people can understand it and realize that, compared with the new financial resources that have never been greater, it might be even better to have even more money, so the discussion of the transport program for this time may be a little more focused on how to do it in other ways, whether other means could be found in funding or new funds. It is good, as the transport program is on page 5. 36, in the 15 - year program, just as one of the projects involved and emphasises the transport process is to examine the need for other concomitantly, although it was only because of the natural climate targets of the government, which are addressed also in transport programmes, how they act, we have a plan for transport energy exchange. The objective is that after 12 years, we will have reduced the number of diesels and fuel cars by 50%. There are tents for today's record of 17◯18 billion that flow directly to the road system. Once those cars are reduced by 50% and the cars continue to be more efficient, we'll have 7 billion, maybe 6. It will be difficult to establish priorities if it becomes the only income. Even if only this is the case, it is being considered in a transport program for reimbursement, more user fees. One of the ways that we are also looking at in a paid working group is some kind of cooperation, and there we have a fine example in the Hafjörður tunnel model, a cooperation project between private and public members and others, about funding, construction, and possibly a business of individual workers. I have to say, as it is, that I have felt that this is a more common congenial in this hall between all members of the council from different categories, I have heard positive voices from sort of all categories, and men are ready to look at these paths. That's what I think is truly positive. The strategy has then called it forward, and perhaps the discussion of the last disturbance, as well as the fact that everyone realizes that in every part of the country, there is a faster trend. Here's the debate over a Smokey Lane, maybe the most obvious. Some members of the council proposed that we should take advantage of the country's bank and take advantage of the Smokey Way. The fact is, however, that the reason we have more money for the first three years of a financial transport program is that for the first time financial gain is taken into account in a financial budget. So these funds have been arranged there. They will not be used again. There's no such thing as Hoccus pocus. We don't make money by snapping our fingers. In the next financial programme, we may be able to make more money in the years 2022 and 2023, at least 2022 next year. But we must be careful about planning future financial payments. It's risky to have two banks in Iceland. We don't know how much money they'll make. In fact, we know that they will not produce as much money in the future as they have done in recent years to a government fund. Of course, with regard to some parts of the country outside of Rhines it has been discussed a significant way here on the West. It is obvious that when the council made its decision at the time to enter an animal tunnel, neither money nor plans were made to connect them. The roads did not have them at the same time at the same time. They're later. The project of 10 billion, 5.5, if I recall correctly, and the Bilddal Road up to 4.4 billion. It is understandable, however, that we look for more intervening activities. The project, however, in 2020 at the Dufindian Day, is that a single, round bridge, very bad, will be put in stocks, that is 300 billion. K. In the year 2022, more than 1,200 million are being initiated at The Huguendin Shrine. K. has since 2023 and will probably complete in the following two years. I think it is only natural for the committee to consider if this project can be rushed so that there is a more compatible process in it. But let us also remember that this procedure is now under environmental assessment because it was not organized along with the animal soil in its own time. That's why it's so important to get a 15-year plan which is, and I'm glad that many members of the Parliament agree on how to complete a large project from the first point until it's finished, even though individual works within the great task are offered in some form. I think people understand that. Sometimes it is not the best way to offer one huge task. Sometimes it is better to cut them down. It has the greatest experience in evaluating roadmaking. At times, with one huge project, a person may have to back up and offer it in smaller units in order to obtain a better price and possibly a contractor to do the work. We saw this for a summer when we were going to make two calls in Hafnarfnarfjörður and we had money so that when the Vega program offered it out, no one would offer it. Sometimes we need to change our thinking. That's why I've stressed that when we're up to a big increase next year, we go to 13.5 billion, of course there's gonna be some limit to how much we can do every year. As the contractors are getting new tools and people to carry out these assignments, we may need to gradually increase. But I think it would be important if we could increase this, to finance it in any other way, whether by direct remuneration or by other means, we would get more money into it and could raise the project to perhaps 16, 17, 18 billion a year. I don't know if we could handle 20 billion. But there's one good thing about us at this time in the economy, the economy is getting cold, and then it's a good time for the state to step in to counter this. There's also been a lot of discussion about flying. I think many people understand that it needs to be done better. But I also know that many expect much of the current work, one on the one side of Isvia's owner's policy, and one on the other, how we get the Scottish way into the compromise on public transportation, put it into effect. It is an assignment that the Committee will no doubt have to discuss in the autumn and through the year, but I emphasize that it is important to complete a transport program before the year, because the current regular transport programme will expire at the end of the year, and I think everyone in this hall would agree that it would be very good to start the invitations on January 1 or 2 of 2019. Finally, I want to thank you for a very good discussion. I can't go to a single point like this. But it was interesting to hear to make up the Steinunn Þóra Harðardóttir - Harðardóttir, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u106	A year's Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u107	...put it at the end of the line that we have to look to such a variety of travel. It's not just roads, it's just flies, it's harbors, we're talking about walking and riding traffic, and we have to look to different people's needs. Therefore, public transportation is so important, and I'm going to end up talking about it a little bit. A few senators came into it. For the first time, we work with our rural communities in the capital area on how we're going to carry out 85 billion projects for the next 15 years, how they're going to be assigned to the right development. On one hand, it is the part that turns to public transportation and the part that turns toward the footways. It is very important to cultivate a solidarity in these assignments. Many senators have called for easy transportation to build surface roads. It is a task that rural society needs to take to heart, for it consists of the organizational affairs of the rural community. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, some of them have shut down such projects. How will we avoid driving through downtown Reykjavík and all the traffic lights? It's a very important assignment. So I think we're in the right place, in cooperation between state and rural society in the capital area, to take this discussion. Yes, they have the right to determine the regional structure. Let's hope we get some good results from this in no later than mid-November, which the committee can use to complete a transport program where people have timed public transport projects and infrastructure into these giant projects here in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u108	A respectable president. I'd like to make a comment here at the council session today. It is clear that on account of fish farming at the beginning of the week, the program of the assembly was clearly under way during the week. It seems as usual that the Senate cases are left there with complete rest and appear to be the members of Congress that were scheduled this week to have been released without further discussion. I'd like to object and point out that this is where we're going to finish a discussion on the issues scheduled today in a little time and enough time to take on a few senators' agendas. I'm calling for it to be done. In fact, I have called for a review of the day's program on the basis of this and the members of Congress, but no answer is given. I find it odd to use at the council's time, when we know we'll be reassigned, as usual, when Christmas is getting closer, that we don't use the time we have today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u109	A respectable president. Just after two today, members of the Environment and Transport Committee met at a meeting at the Committee immediately after the end of a meeting to resolve the matters scheduled for today's discussion. I don't quite understand why the rush is, why isn't it waiting for the next scheduled meeting of the environment and transport committee on Tuesday? There is not much that happens at that time, and it is likely that during the few days, there will be little difference between the reviews. If something is, people will have more and more time to write and give reviews, if it is scheduled for a routine environmental and transport committee meeting instead of making emergency meetings after a meeting today. When you do, I'll answer a question. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson on where the senators' affairs are to be planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u110	Mr. President. I come up here to say something. The members of the Þölstein Þorsteinn of Víglundsson and Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, were suddenly being called to a meeting on the Environment and Transport Committee and told that this meeting should be held after the meeting. Now there is to be two of the highest issues involved. The secretary of transportation is about to begin measuring. As far as I know at the same meeting, there is no way to address any of the issues that are about to be measured. There is no authority because the case has not been referred to the committee, yet there is a list of comments, and I don't know what or what. I can't figure out which theater we're in right now. [[The president calls.]] What the hell's going on?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u111	Mr. President. I agree with the previous members of Congress that they are finished here and not being delayed and pushing them before them. That's enough already. I'm still not making any comments to the Transport Committee meeting. We're at the House of Congress, and I don't see anything wrong with a transport committee meeting between events at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u112	A respectable president. An additional message was received on the phone that I didn't see until after my last discussion of the conference board and in which the meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee is being announced after a discussion about the transport program, which is being said for the duration of a meeting. This is even more strange than the conclusion of a meeting because the approval of all members of the committee is required to have a meeting for the duration of a meeting. [[It was adopted at a hearing this morning.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u113	Mr. President. I was going to come up here and agree with what. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Wormund's Víglundsson, I missed not seeing the events on the program earlier this week, and many of them were interesting. I agree that the day is still young, and there is nothing to do with working on. With regard to meetings in committees it is wise to have effectiveness in the Senate. I understand that if the members of the committee have agreed to meet after the end of the day or to attend a meeting. I think I also support the wisdom of putting things at speed so that we can get better jobs here at the council. But it's a young day. I don't understand in the President's office not setting up any more issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u114	Mr. President. For word's sake. A senator and the 1st vice president of the Environment and Transport Committee, which he conducted here outside a month, said that it had been agreed at a meeting of the Committee this morning to run for a small meeting after a discussion of the transport program, I must quote what is going on with the committee secretary: As agreed at the meeting of the Committee this morning, a brief meeting will be held at the Committee at the end of the meeting. There are still two matters to consider, the members of the committee who are to listen to the Supreme Court. A secretary of transportation measures these matters. I can't quite figure out what it is. Senator wants us to do it. Shall we listen to the highest? Ministers are discussing the matter, or are we running into a side room for a meeting? You wonder, " Is it a wish to the highest? ' Minister here recommends an empty room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u115	A respectable president. Often, we are asked to be in a lot of confusion in this council hall. This is going to take the top of it. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, a member of the Environment and Transport Committee, was not attending a meeting of the Committee this morning. Her place was a drive-by. paritaprevir Brjánsson. It was agreed, of all the members of the committee meeting this morning, that we would meet after the discussion on transportation - it was agreed to do this after the discussion on transportation or the issue that would follow. [[It says, at the end of a meeting, at the meeting.]] It's a two-minute meeting, for example, just to work time and put transport under control. It takes us about Two minutes. It is also possible to paint here in order to get in the way of this council and show the utmost respect for such practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u116	We're not...
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u117	It's not to promote the dignity of this council, but there's just the trick herehv. þm. Helga Vala Helgadóttir not even sitting on his feet. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is: It's not the government opposition that's been running around here today.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's the best time she's ever had, and it's fine with us, who are her political opponents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u118	Thus, the president aims to respect the time limit and respect the fact that other members of Congress have the word and do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u119	Mr. President. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in regional transport law which is law No. 160/2011, and those laws went into effect on January 1, 2012. Based on these, annual support has been provided for the equal transport costs of the manufacturers of the country. The aim is to balance such costs of transport by the manufacturer located far from the domestic market or export point point of view and therefore to live with reduced competitiveity due to higher costs of transport. The law was originally valid until the end of 2013, but with no law. 132/2013 was their extension to the end of 2020. Manufacturers outside the capital area can enjoy transport efficiency to meet certain conditions. Strength are given due to transport of products from the strong zone if the production is complete or half carried as product, i.e. Products that have passed through a specific manufacturing process in the field of strength or by transport to the source range of raw or semi-employed products, i.e. a product missing in order for final product production to occur at the level site. The minimum length of travel is 25 miles [245 km], but in certain areas, increasing concentrations are given longer than 390 miles [390 km]. Transporters are, in accordance with these laws, only those who are involved in the production of C-base of the Icelandic work programme ISAT2008, which includes, for example, ISAT2008. The production of fish products and other food production other than culture In this case, the cumulative volume of transport for each manufacturer may be larger than the amount of 200 you corresponding to. Erum over three years. Are the rules in this respect tailored to the European Community Constitution regulations. Those who would like to do more research on these matters I directed my report to the General Assembly for the implementation of regional transport equations in 2017, which was submitted at the last council. As noted earlier, regional transport laws remain different from levels at the end of 2020. It is therefore time to decide whether to extend their time as well as to evaluate their experience in view of their objective to support the production and construction of the country. Since the first supply of transport concentrations for 2012, the funds given by the General Assembly have never been fully implemented. Investors have studied 175 million. K. year except for the first year of 196.5 million. K. There has been considerable rest, but there have been many in number, all the years. Certain factors may have led to a lower strength than expected at the beginning. Is it mainly the growth of coastal transport that makes it possible for companies who could otherwise have used the strength to be less than 500 miles [45 km] from their nearest export point of view, and is now no longer the foundation of the law for granting grants? In this case, it has been criticized that certain producers are unable to receive a law - given volume of transport despite the practice of their production in areas of strength and that garden farmers have been most referred to in this regard. It is clear that their activities may no less be cut off because of the high costs of transport than the other productions involved in the law. The bill suggests an extended period of five years of regional transport laws or the end of 2025. There are also some material adjustments to the conditions of transport management companies, which aim to increase the number of users who are able to use them more effectively and thus to make more use of the funds offered on the budget. First, the law's field of values is extended to include production of horticultural farmers that grow fruit, flowers or vegetables and fully complete their production in a commercially authorised container, their production falls under category 01.1, non-divers and/or category 01.2, the culture of a multilingual crops in the A-B column of ISAT2008. As a result of the production and packing of the goods at the same site, it is actually the full - time work of the goods so that it can be placed directly into stores. Is it reasonable that these gardeners are not excluded from transport concentrations, since they also meet other conditions of the law. This change has been specifically considered against the EU State Fortification Protocol and the conclusion that these production products of the horticulture fall outside the standard range of the agreement and therefore does not qualify for national support according to the Treaty. Second, the minimum length of travel is reduced from 25 miles to 150. This action will measure the number of people who are entitled to be strong due to their production. Adding this change is the Hunswater, the Burden Valley, and the urban cities of the Snæfells as a stable area, if compared with transport to and from the capital area. In addition, areas at the Cradle Council of the East, east of the Forest, i.e. In accordance with the same assumption, moldy valley woes and Thomson's Scrotums. Third, if a robust application exceeds the budget of the year, it is permitted to reduce the share of the cost of transport, but is found to be less than the financial level, it may increase this rate. This ensures not only that the funds offered for these funding are fully used but also that financial resources are not exceeded. In this regard, it should be noted that there is not expected to be an increased budget for this project. A respectable president. I've been explaining the subject of the bill. I believe that the changes it involves are designed to improve the use of the funds offered to this project and contribute to their more reasonable division. In that way, I suggest that the bill be after this discussion referred to why. The pro board and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u120	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for bringing this bill forward and for his story on the matter. I'd like to start by asking him if it's not correctly understood that this transport equation could never be the means to produce and whether he knows them to allow any other means to level the facilities for manufacturing. What may be the main reason why I come up here is a question as to whether products of the forest could also yield to the dilatation taking place, in many respects similar production. Now the situation may be that forest products are about to begin in Iceland and away from the main market area. I wondered, " Is this to be checked in the progress of the bill? ' Then I wondered, " Could it be possible that the full - time ministry of foods other than vegetables on farms could fall below? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u121	A respectable president. I appreciate those questions. Regarding the first question of separation, it is this way today that there is a need for prisoners to complete the final process of goods, it is a robust transfer. The answer to that question is: Yes, resources can be underneath it. With the question of forest farmers, I have to admit that I don't know the ISAT2008 and the definition of the A- column, but if that's how they fall under it, or that it's comparable, I encourage the committee to look into it and get it cut. I can agree with the senator that much of the production is just a product ready to go into stores and is certainly far from principal markets. Regarding the last question asked by the senator about other foods or foods, they are already built up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u122	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is, in fact, no further questions. However, I would like to refer it to the committee that will be considered in particular, and precisely whether there may be more in the A-B column, even more than what has occurred here, which may be subject to a possible dilation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u123	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I'm just underlining the tips and encouraging a professional committee to consider whether these products of forest farmers, and possibly others that were not listed here, might fall under this A-B column of ISAT2008.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u124	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. Such transport can be very beneficial for working in the country and away from the markets. However, we also have reports that there has been a high degree of payment, even to the extent that shipping costs are higher than the cost of transport. We know that it was the case in transport transport transport at the time, which meant that being as far away from the user was actually more practical when selling the product. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister a little more detailed in how this transport is performed. Is the amount of transport paid fully or in part? This can be important. And second of all, I ask, because I don't quickly see that it appears in the bill's report: What is the estimated budget of the state's budget of the change?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u125	Mr. President. Thank you for your fine questions from what? paritaprevir The village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. I agree that this operation is designed to equal people's opportunities in the market areas. In this case, the site of construction is covered by a building agency. They apply, have to send in bills, and are never paid unless a certain percentage is paid. It is, as specified in the law, a fixed peak outside. The examples are for the rest of your life. A senator never mentioned this. As I went over, there are no plans upstairs to raise the budget, which is 175 million. Mr. K., I remember I said, which we've been with in this, but the meaning of these changes is that a building agency can rise and decrease the proportion so that we can use the funds. But there's no pressure to raise that amount of money. Otherwise, I refer to the report submitted to our council on how this was implemented in 2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u126	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your excellent review of this case. It is equal and regional to strengthen job opportunities on the land. The aim, as mentioned in a report, is to help improve the use of the funds offered for transport efficiency by diluting the conditions of the manufacturer's use. I think this is very positive and like the fences installed into the bill about roofing payments, that you can't go up to a particular amount, and that regional boundaries can be evened. So it's also dealing with the critical voices that believe that not everyone was sitting at the same level, that they're expanding territory, expanding territory, and that I think I'm a very positive approach in this case. The minister answered questions that were in my mind, not surprising that they were similar to questions. 9th. Northeast monasteries, Anna Sævarsdóttir. It's out here. I think it's a very good thing. This also indicates that there is a structure, equality, and so on. We are, if the purpose is to expand the funding of the region and increase the number of robust applications. That's a very positive thing to say. This will be done and the work being done will be based on the basis of reports and research. I hope that this will continue to strengthen industry and employment throughout the country and thus the communities, the people, and the homes. I welcome the contribution of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u127	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I'd like to ask on the bill for regional transport. When it comes to strides, it refers to electrical energy, i.e. transfer of electricity, not the energy itself? On the one hand, I'd like to ask about the distance they put in there. It'll go from 500 miles to 150. There are larger areas that are hot in the sense that there is body temperature, they are suitable for warm farming, and there is much warmth. I'm picking up sites like Smokeholt in Burgundy, Cylinder Rock, Sun Bank, Fled, Grimines, which are really not within this radius, and then they don't fit in, but they're very ideal areas for warming. Is there any particular reason why the ring was pulled 150 miles, or is there any possibility that we might see a change in that distance?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u128	A respectable president. I appreciate your interest and discussion on this subject. I think it's a very important matter. However, to answer questions. paritaprevir Jón Þór, the son of Þorvaldsson, does not cover the cost of electricity or anything like that. Of course, it's safe to talk about the fact that this part of the product is used to produce a full product, but we've had other ways of doing it. This has further been discussed. I think I can claim it's not like that. I agree with that. Of course, a member of the council that he mentioned, on the one hand in the city and on the other in the South, in Aarnes County, are the most important areas of the country's population. Perhaps this transport balance is more than intended to balance the situation with that area; if I know it correctly, I suppose we could be talking about 80% in these areas or even 90% of the country's exposure. Of course, leaving 245 miles, which is the minimum distance today, to 150 miles, is a significant change and will expand the areas and take in areas, as I mentioned, which are farther from the market areas. Of course, these are some of the work that the committee needs to consider. The evidence behind these distances needs to be considered rather than any other. So I'll finish my case on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u129	Mr. President. There's been some strange things here. I'm a deputy member of the Environment and Transport Committee, and I got an invitation today to attend a meeting of the Committee right after a meeting. So I answered a meeting and said I would be there. It appears that there has been another meeting in the Committee, on transport matters, immediately following a discussion here. I did not receive the offer, so I allow myself to insist that the meeting of the committee was bad and that it did not work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u130	A respectable president. On the same page: At 3:33 a.m., I receive an e-mail as an e-mail on an environment and transport committee, that the meeting period has been changed since the council meeting was scheduled for our meeting. President of the Committee wishes to have a meeting at the council meeting. Six minutes later, the meeting is scheduled for that meeting. In Congress it is very clear that all you need is one person to say, "No, I don't want a meeting at the council meeting. " I don't have anything to say about it, I'm an audition agent. But the meeting was held. From here, five went out and went to the meeting. As far as I'm concerned, there wasn't even a committee writer at that meeting, he disappeared somewhere. [["Yes, yes, it was a secretary.]] All right, he was there. That's fine. But there are certain rumors about what was going on there and who were at that meeting. It would be fine if the members of the council at this meeting were to come and inform us a little more about how this meeting was conducted and why not all members of the committee were granted the right to agree whether they had a hearing at the council meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u131	Mr. President. I'm coming up here to say the word with the rest. Councilmen. This was very clear, and it is here attached to the film that the members of the Committee were not willing to hold this committee meeting at the council meeting, not at all. 20th degree. On the matter of Congress it is stated that when a meeting is held, it should not be held. However, if the committees agree and the president do not object, then the situation can be changed. This is where the members of the committee were in jail, including From the top of the board, and from the top of the board. A secretary of transportation introduces matters, as we should. We are here on a transport and environment committee, and we are required to listen to those issues presented to us. Unfortunately, however, it seems to be the first vice president, anyway. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, was so impervious that he set up a meeting despite the protests of many members of the committee. I can't see that this committee meeting, or we meant a committee meeting, maybe you should say, is legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u132	Mr. President. The meeting I received, however, gives clear evidence that the plan was all the time to meet after a meeting today. It is part of the meeting, for a third of the events on the program was not yet scheduled for the meeting I was invited to, much less that it was referred to the committee. All of this is so unlikely that I think the council and the President will have to intervene here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u133	A respectable president. I'd like to explain why this is so serious. This seems to be the case when it appears that a meeting can be announced at a meeting, that some more of the committee's things can just come to him, handle things, and finish. We don't know what decisions they made there. Likely, fine decisions were made according to the schedule, but this is also a part of the program in which other matters could have been developed. Generally speaking, the form is extremely important. I hope the senators realize what kind of example this is. There should not be much more to say in order to understand how serious this is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u134	A respectable president. I'd like to inform you that I've had two meetings in a night. Environment and transport committee today. The meeting this morning, with no one to comment on other matters, was discussed only on whether the committees agreed to meet today at the end of a meeting or before, in order to agree on a process of transportation to make it a democratic narrative. At that time, vessels were on whether or not the case was the highest. The secretary of transportation has just now moved an opportunity to the environment and transport committee or to the trade board. This was the opinion of the committees - in view of good cooperation, as in many workplaces, but can often be difficult here - that in the event of the situation. The job committee would have found us sooner. This was the discussion, but none of those who were present at that meeting has spoken here. A meeting was held, took a minute, and time has till tomorrow to add clients.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u135	Mr. President. In order to arrange for this meeting, I was at a second meeting of the Generalist Committee, but I sent a deputy instead of me, who was present at that meeting and requested that the meeting not be started quickly, as if it were such a hurry - up case here at the council that no time should be wasted. He requested that it be held for a moment so that the members of the committee could hear the Supreme Court. Ministers present issues that are coming into the committee for treatment. [[Up front.]] There are two issues on the agenda here. One of them is to be visited by the Environment and Transport Committee. In fact, at a meeting meeting when meeting after a meeting, the program says that we are considering the issues that were yet to be measured by transportation. [[The president calls.]] We can't afford to get excited around here because it's not a good team. We asked for a brief wait so that we could listen to what is going on here so that we could be able to practice professional business practices and conform to Congress laws. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Can we ask for a little respect for Congress law, please? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u136	A respectful president hopes that we will respect the Congress laws and demand that we do what is right. The environment and transport committees are well aware of what really happened at these meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u137	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a ship surveillance law. It suggests that a Grouping Agency can lay administrative guiltys upon those persons who violate the regulations of the laws and regulations of the authorities in accordance with them. The bill was recommended for the same subject at the last legislature, but it did not succeed, and it is therefore recommended here again. The aim of a law to monitor ships is to secure the safety of Icelandic ships, their crews and passengers, and to provide protection against pollution from ships. For the law to accomplish its purpose, it is generally thought that it must be followed by violations of the law. The law to monitor ships is largely assumed to be a crime against the law to be reported to the police. Only one form of administrative repair is found, but it is a procedure that may be a very serious resource for deforestation and sailors by nature. It is generally believed that both efficient and costly measures for all members are more effective to lay on government fines than to sue a federal offense for police investigation, and from there to the courts, if that is the case. The cost of the offender, e.g. ... becauseof attorneys'aid, mostly less in the case of administrative legislation. The bill suggests that governmental fines can be placed on individuals as well as on lawmakers. The reason for suggesting that individuals be fined is the special nature of the Sea Court, where the responsibility of the captains and other directors is high. This is largely because of the great distance between ship and fishing, which must be trusted by the managers of the ship and the crew. The implementation of the bill was guided by a report on the Court's Penitentiary on Economic Crimes, in which there is a detailed review of the requirements for government fines as well as examples of other laws, such as contracts for registered vehicles, health insurance laws and chemical laws. A respectable president. I have here explained the key elements of this bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u138	Madam President. Thank you very much. The secretary of transportation is very, very eager for the presentation of the bill. In recent years, we have discussed a great deal of government surveillance and how governments are doing their monitoring duties, anywhere in our fine system. I wondered, " Is there an increase in funding for the Association Agency and for the health care providers who are expected to take care of that surveillance anywhere, whether it is expected in budgets and programmes? '
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u139	A respectable president. It is not our evaluation and for those who wrote this bill that it is needed. This monitoring will be carried out by a boarding room. It simply has a lack of resources for action. The discussion did not result in the completion of the case at the last legislation, but it is originally a request from the National Reservation Guard, another of which would be that the National Guard had comparable authority and the police could complete a case. However, it is being suggested that the Transporting Room, which is already under control, be able to walk this way because these are less burdensome measures than calling the police and putting in the police investigation as I described in the introduction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u140	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister may be eager for the answer, but he may ask: " Is this not a predictable task? Is this not something that a walking agency needs to respond to as the number of people increases, the number of active workers, or something like that? Is this a small task that they can simply add to their daily activities?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u141	A respectable president. As I've understood it, and we've been studying the financial status and financial monitoring institutions, including the Grouping Agency, this is entirely within the limits that the Grouping Room can make. However, the committee will likely ask for this information and also review the same discussion that may have caused the matter to be closed last year, to see if there is any other means available. In our opinion, this is the simplest way in which the inspector is, in effect, authorized to complete the project in a different way, to simplify it, and therefore the time should be reduced to that end.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-10-11-18.u142	Madam President. I still want to call attention to the fact that we're finishing our work here at about 4:30 p.m. on Thursday. Although there is plenty of time, it has not been asked to take more on the program. It is important to bear in mind that the Synod committees at this time are relatively minor, since relatively few cases have come to them. I count that ten administration cases and one nine members of Congress are already included in the eight Synod committees, including at least Three matters, which belong to the law. So for the committees, the list of projects is not very long today, but 54 cases are waiting for 1. Um., 38 members of Congress and 16 diplomats. I must be surprised that the duration of the council is no better than that. We're just out of the week. This was a short conference for a council meeting on Monday. In fact, I wondered what we were going to discuss at the conferences on Monday, since there was no long list for us to do. I am disappointed in such a waste of practice. We could easily have used the day much better. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
