ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u1	The president wants to state that there is an agreement between parties on the structure of the discussion. An executive and a ministerial servant will receive 15 minutes each and every other members of Congress 12 minutes. At the end of the discussion, all members of Congress will receive three minutes. The sessions of each council can be divided between members of the council. Those answers will not be allowed. A vote is held after a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u2	Mr. President. I hereby suggest a resolution of mistrust in the Minister of Justice. The movers are members of the United States and Pirata, as well as from here on out. Councilmen Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Leví Gunnarsson Helgadóttir, Ólafsson Guðmundur Thorsson Björn Ágústsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Smaller Mccarthy and Elíasdóttir Fjordur Fjordur. The consonant proposal reads: 'The General concluded to express a lack of confidence in the minister of justice. It is no small thing to offer a proposal for mistrust in a government minister. They represent the Commission and cooperate with the support of the Generals. Ministers present important issues that affect the everyday life and safety of the common people, but they sometimes focus on the basics of our existence in very long periods of time. Responsible for what? Thus, the senators at this vote are very, very much. A successful society is founded on trust, and it is of prime importance that the legislature, execution, and judicial rights will enjoy it in the richest measure. In fact, the proposal to discuss all of these three threads and interactions or, unfortunately, their hard work in an abnormal way, i.e. Illegal interference by the European Commission with the Court and whether the legislation of the legislation is intended to dissuade it. Mr. President. Of course, it is always serious when a minister violates laws against the orders of ministers of the state who hear a minister but who are uncomfortable when it comes to violating a judge's orders made by the trident authority must be independent of the authority. This is the case. V.E.G. During an interview at RUSH, a minister of justice has welcomed the proposed proposal that gives her a welcome opportunity to discuss her work as a minister. All right. In his business. year has the highest. On two occasions, Minister of Justice was sentenced to the Supreme Court for her services when she ordered a new land course in an illegal manner, a step that many have said was our greatest legal reform from the Republic's establishment. The result is that the credibility of the land's rights is questioned. Even now, two cases before the court are put before us, and it is not surprising that more will follow. Getting a decision may take a very long time, and there is a possibility that a case will be invalid. In this light, of course, the interests and damages of the State must be kept in mind, as well as in the lives of many individuals and even the general public. In the end, effective ministers always revolve around government service to the people of the land, and in that view, they are a serious matter. These services have been widely discussed in the past winter. During these discussions, the minister has repeated false talk. V.E.G. A minister has concluded that for a little time, she could not have handled matters better, that she had to submit her proposal two weeks after a fitting committee showed her appreciation. In this case, the U.S. Marshal of the Council does not agree in his recent letter to the Administrative Board of Directors and Commission. It says that this delay does not apply to the order of the land. We've also heard from no-ways to the highest level. A minister has received repeated counseling from specialists in the administration board that she needs to meet the research obligations, more effective. This important advice, in line with the Supreme Court decision and the opinion of an agent, ignored it and said that she himself was an expert in the seminary. In fact, then, the suggestion was to dismiss an order and give more time to review the case. There are questions: Why is this fluctuated fluf? What was behind the decision? A minister who thus became familiar with his authority? Now, who has to judge himself? The key point, though, is that due to an unregistered office transfer, there is uncertainty about a whole level of judgment. The letter of the U.S. General's agent gives every reason to believe that it is all presented in the case of the Minister of Justice. No lawsuits before the courts are about the position of the Minister of Justice. They are only about the bad consequences of an illegal office minister's entry. Hence, a minister of justice is not trustworthy in representing the courts of the land or in overcoming the problems in the courts. Hence, she must shoulder responsibility for them, and it is vital that it be made clear. That's why the Conspiracy and the Pirates offer up mistrust at the highest. Minister of Justice. Mr. President. This vote is about fundamental issues, i.e. on what we want to build our community, on laws, on transparency, on good judgment, on morals, or on the opposite. Hv. A member of the Independence Party last night said it was a formality. Such statements show that there are still people in the Assembly Hall who suggest that the person who somehow comes to power has the authority in his hands. Someone could even have called it a recipe for abuse of power. Mr. President. In a letter to his party from June onward. wrote the highest. Prime Minister, along with the highest. Healthcare Minister, with permission of the President: ▪ During the first minister of the seminary, the emphasis was to produce a new court order and a new court order in reconciliation. A new minister has acted contrary to that process, beginning with the spirit that prevailed in the early stages of the matter. Interjugation is now complete, the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and the entire government. There is still no way to see the end of this arrangement, and it could become a national court that would have to deal with distrust and lack of credibility for years. The motive for these words was the highest order. Minister of Justice to a new U.S. National Court. They were written before a minister was twice condemned for illegal office transactions. This alone would even give us reason to write a new letter and to take a deeper note of the year. Now, Mr. President, at the top of the word. Prime Minister of the new work ethic and of the increased trust it gained at the beginning of the administrative work. At this vote, she and all other members of the body have the opportunity to show it by their actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u3	A respectable president. The lack of confidence in some ministers is almost unknown in the history of the council. This is true despite the fact that there are no particular restrictions on the basis of distrust. There is no logical need for anyone to reason that there is an issue of opinion involving law or order. It may be similar with political or even personal issues. Despite the fact that there are no such limits to the mistrust of a single minister, or the case of a government, despite the fact that a case has struck the state and some advisers at court in history more than once, such insecurity proposals, have been proposed for mistrust in some individual Ministers, not brought up at the Council for decades, enough has been debated here at the council throughout history. During 1954, proposals for distrust in the Ministry of Education were offered. It will not be considered as a substantial proposal proposed to the Council of 1994 as only one minister, for it was presented to all government ministers, each of them. While the subject on the program will be considered only in that light, it will be said that the ones involved are on a very strange journey. According to a verb, the Supreme Court's conclusions from three months ago, in December 2017, are based on the fact that the minister did not always follow the correct procedure, that she did not comply fully with her study duties, did not make sufficient comparisons of the qualifications of those to whom she made a suggestion, compared with those to whom the jury had proposed. However, the Supreme Court did not agree with the requirement to invalidate the minister's decision. In addition, the General had previously received the Minister's proposal here for the treatment and agreed to it. The minister has indeed been prepared to reason on his case, both for the members of the Generals, here in the Hall of Congress as well, and, in fact, wherever it has been called. The management board has discussed the matter. Where the Minister has arrived and answered. The committee made a suggestion to raise the opinions of the emissary Generalis, who has recently expressed himself on the matter and does not believe that there is any basis for taking note of the details of this matter, on his own initiative, as the evidence suggests. A respectable president. In view of all of this, the people who make this suggestion are on a mission that goes on one and only one, trying to strike the government. The company became quicker to respond to the encouragement of their former leader, or should I tell a persistent leader, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, since the last weekend? It called for the Conspiracy to set his spear at the Independence Party. And knowingly, for the first time in the half century, a minister of mistrust arose. Yes, Minister of Independence. In view of the long - range discussion that the government groups have conducted on this matter, which is long - informed and examined, I have to say, it is a certain joy to have here an opportunity to officially end the matter, an opportunity to express support to the Minister here at the General Assembly. Finally, the matter will be out of the way, and members of the Parliament can begin to focus on the big, important work that lies ahead and on the future. And the minister can turn to the many projects on her mind, and she is well - equipped to cope, some of which may be. It's about defenses against terrorism and the funding of terrorism, sponsoring border control and national security, the implementation of sexual crime and the general growth of law enforcement and all the rest. You see, the minister is enjoying these and other matters at her table, the support of the greater section at the General Assembly. It will appear clearly today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u4	Mr. President. What we are asking ourselves, and the people of the country should ask themselves as well and have been asking themselves, is this minister of justice worthy of trust? Should I trust this Minister of Justice? Then we will look to what has been going on. We're investigating this case. The courts have issued their sentence, a board of administration and monitoring committee has called for and obtained data from the administration of decision-making and strategy of the minister. The secretary of the Generals has reviewed the evidence and does not feel that it is fully informed how the minister handled his affairs in the order of the judges. Then we look to how it started. Yes, a judicial committee is appointed and legally acting independently to evaluate who are the most qualified members who are applying to enter this new level of judgment that had been in preparation for years in great peace. And right away, the Minister of Justice decides to try to interfere, asking for more options for himself. It's supposed to be an independent committee, but after being convicted of violating the law in this regard, she's just about to write up some new rules about this judicial committee, actually punishing the committee for not obeying, not doing what the Minister of Justice wanted to do. Number two is that the Minister of Justice then receives suggestions from the judicial committee, not as she wanted them, but only the four they chose. There's only one person, one expert, who says it's legal, and that's the Minister of Justice himself. All the others who have a legal obligation to advise a minister say, "It's not legal if you do it like this. ' It's not legal if you do it this way. And in the end, the Ministry of Justice says it's not legal if you do this, I'll help you do this. I can gather people now, and we can finish this in a 24 hour period, even within this two - week period of service. This is a betrayal of the people who have the legal job of handling these matters and betraying those who have been working on this case all along. The Minister of Justice decides: No, I'm going to do this according to my understanding, it's my personal decision to make a suggestion for four others into this, four others, and we know that two of them are very well connected to a minister. This proposal enters the General Assembly and goes to the board of directors and board of directors. Does the Minister of Justice tell his colleagues that anyone but her members of the Ministry and the government said it would be illegal if she did this? No, she hid it, she betrayed them. They must be able to trust their cooperation with the minister. She hid the board of administration and monitoring committee as well, the committee to monitor her if she decides to alter the judicial committee they can do. We're supposed to keep an eye on her, but it's hiding this information from us. There's a serious betrayal of the Federal Command and Control Committee. We need information to make informed decisions as to whether this is right. It was a fraud, and it conceals all members of this same information so that they cannot make informed decisions as to whether it is legal and right to do so. There's a fraud at the Council, but it gets more of a part to run it through by hiding information. A majority of the Generals agree with that, but just before he agrees, she'll have the chance to get this back in her hands. That's a suggestion from the smaller parts, including Left green, we'll bring this back to her and she'll have a whole month to win the case. Let's do it right, let's do it well. She was rejected by one vote, Sigríður On. Andersen was a senator. Then this goes for the President. She offers the letter knowing that she is the only expert who has a legal approach to the case that says it is legal. Everyone else has told her that it is illegal - except for the Council, who did not have the information, i.e. More of the Generals. She's putting this up for the president, knowing it's probably illegal. She still puts it up for the President of Iceland. There's a betrayal of the President of Iceland, there's a fraud to conceal information from the President of Iceland, and he's not happy to be secretized about a case he's had to write up, e.g. I'm about to get mad. He said that such cases would no longer be settled, of course not, and rightly not. Then these members are appointed to the National Court, four members, and now the Supreme Court judged it illegal. We have this new level of judgment, which was perfect all the time until the final meters of a new justice minister, Sigríður Á. Andersen, decides to try to put his people, these four persons, into this judgment. Everyone says it's red light, don't do this, don't do this, but she's running over, and now she's been kicking this sentence in the way of the next few years so that justice will be done to him. This will be reported to the European Court of Human Rights. Although the Supreme Court says that the judges are not incompetent, this will be reported to the European Court of Human Rights. There's someone who's gonna do it. It will be done. And what will he say? Now, the minister of justice has said that it may be that she owes her credit to her appointed judges that they are indebted to her. That's what she said at Hick, anybody can see it, there's gonna be evidence in this case. Then it is not an unjust court. We have a justice minister who has established justice in the country by destroying a career that everyone else has done professionally. They're traitors to those who worked on it all the streets. There's a fraud at the Council. There's a double-crossed team, a double-crossing of the Board of Directors and Controls. There are traitors to those who work in our administration trying to do professional things there and advise ministers. There is a betrayal of the judicial committee, how has it been treated. This minister has betrayed all members of this process from the beginning to the finish, from the moment she arrived at it. Then you ask yourself: " Has she accepted something in this regard? No, she does not admit that she makes mistakes. It's always somebody else's fault. It's the Justice Minister we have. And what about the rest? A person who makes so many axes and ruins so much, is never ready to admit and always points to others, such a person will continue to cheat. She will betray this government and her colleagues in it for a very narrow group, its core. That is what we are facing. I don't trust this Minister of Justice, and I hope that as many people do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u5	Mr. President. The reason we discuss this proposal for mistrust at the highest level. Minister of Justice is the suggestion adopted by the greater part of the Generals. About 15 judges at the new Court of the Land. A minister's proposal was not in accordance with the proposal of a judicial committee that evaluated 15 candidates, provided the opinion of a minister, but in his proposal a minister took advantage of the legal authority that is permitted to compromise the judgment of a judicial committee as well as a majority of the Generals agree to the proposal. Then, when it was pointed out that this warrant did not separate from the principles of the administrative rights discussed in the judges and the opinions of the General agent, and has been built on this land for a long time, to appoint the most qualified of candidates. That rule guarantees public interest and meets the Constitution of the Constitution's equal rule. It was noted that there should be sufficient evidence. This was shown by the opinion of my share of the management and monitoring committee which I personally recommended. In the spring, however, the outcome for the greater part of the Generals was to support the proposal. Minister. This case was followed by a district hearing and then by the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court confirms what was presented in this committee, i.e. The court concluded that a minister's investigation was inadequate and in opposition to Article 10. Government law. However, it is always evaluable, as has been observed in the treatment of this case, how thorough such a study should be conducted. It is the nature of this rule that there must always be food. It has been shown in my case following the judgment of the district and the Supreme Court that I take this decision seriously, and I believe that there is good reason to reexamine the valid laws of the order of judges in the light of the judgments available. The most important thing we can do is to learn from such judgments. I did not demand the resignation of a justice minister, even though I was then in a position of government. That attitude has not changed. All this has been discussed, you see, during the last term, in the past government, all the members of the council could be clear of the question of the matter. The need to examine specifically whether the administrative protocol would have been followed. There was a question of the highest counseling. A minister would've come for him. That's what I did myself at the Board of Directors and Control Committee meeting. It was shown by the highest. A minister that she referred to her own evaluation as it has been since then so that these are not new information on the subject. This was evident, however, to support the proposal was the end of a greater part. Minister. The district court had passed its sentence before the last election, so the facts were also clear, and although the Supreme Court later fell and was somewhat different from the district court, in that the Supreme Court considered there to be no conflict in the opinion of a judicial committee as a local court case, these large lines were completely clear in the matter, and therefore had open eyes - because this was a good deal of reference to the stand of members of the left-left movement to the green offer - completely open eyes that we decided to go to this government business. We're still completely open to it. What has become new in this case is that the U.S. agent has decided not to take it into consideration, but he has offered initiative consideration for the opinion of the candidates for official positions. I welcome that examination and consider it a good reason to review the points cited earlier. It has previously been observed that one judge who was not a member of the judicial committee is being treated in a court of law because of inadequacy. The court has already decided on the case and refused to give up the judge's seat. Because a case has been shot to the Supreme Court. So there's a case in the judiciary system. I have felt that it was strange and in fact contrary to the Constitution's principles of tribunals to call for, like, a wave. The council made here yesterday some sort of intervention in the court. I just don't know what's being suggested, that the national rights will be reassigned as a whole? It's even more surprising to assume that the bottom line is the bottom line. Minister of Justice will destroy the conviction of the court in this case. It will only be destroyed by the end of the trial by the courts. It's going to have the last word, and I didn't hear any better, or I didn't actually read the world site any better than the U.S. president would agree that justice would not be destroyed despite the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice has taken his place. To be honest, Mr. President, I'm not gonna be able to see that the evidence of this distrust is satisfactory. Here's what we're going to do. Senators listening to and taking a stand from the discussion. That is not to say that I am reducing the severity of the court's court of law or that careful work is being done in the administration. I believe, however, that this suggestion does not serve such goals, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u6	V.E.G. President. It is not every day that at the General Assembly, a distrust proposal is presented to a private minister. I'm sure no one will take lightly, but to me there is one question more than many others, these: Should ministers remain in office? That may be the question we need to answer today. Now it's complicated, so the minister we're discussing, the highest. Minister of Justice, the only Minister of Iceland who has broken the law or received the Supreme Court in office. Every time it's happened to an ancient person, as long as I can remember, people have taken it to the highest level. The prime minister said earlier that we should learn from this. I don't know what we're gonna do, but we're supposed to learn from this, says the highest. Prime Minister. And we're supposed to keep learning. I don't know what we're supposed to do, and I don't know what the lesson is. Of course, the consequences of doing so are due to the highest degree. The Minister of Justice recently ordered the National Court not to appear and will not appear until some time later. Once they're fully out, i.e. When the Supreme Court has passed, and if this case goes to the Court of Human Rights, it will surely be asked how the vote presented below was, how they vote here. Both in 1st and 3 mg. Section 5. Minister's Code and 1st. 20. track No. 115/2011 it is decreed that a minister should consult his Ministry to ensure that his work is in accordance with the laws and regulations. There is no other readout from the court of the court at its time for a recent order in the land, except that this was not done. That is why I come back to the question: Do ministers who violate the law continue in office? My mind is in itself today at the highest. A prime minister who gives president in a government who has the sincere resolve to strengthen confidence in the Council, to build confidence in politics. She has appointed a special committee to promote political trust, and representatives of the classes have met with that committee and have reported what they believe is a key factor in promoting political trust. But this same prime minister, with two ministers, is responsible for those who both have the highest court on their backs, the third one who seems to be incompetent in one case after another. She wants to build her trust in politics, to strengthen her confidence in the Council, and to strengthen her path. Trust in the Council today, I saw in the paper an increase of 20%. I don't know, Mr. President, if there'll be any confidence in the proposal here to consider, that it will go. I doubt it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u7	A respectable president. In support of what? paritaprevir The first carrier, Logi Einarsson, said that it would be less than trivial to offer confidence in a minister. Now, in view of the fact that both the person standing here and many who came to the National Court less than a year ago, they were given all the information on the table in view of what form of distrust is placed here on the table. All data was available. [[Foreground on: No.]] It is true that both the district and the Supreme Court agreed that a minister had not studied candidates adequately and that this was a violation of the evaluable protocol, Article 10. Government law. The person here pointed to this in his own case and concluded that there was a doubt as to whether adequate research had been performed. However, I also described it many times during this discussion. In spring, a minister had full authority to issue the proposal of the Commission and to suggest another proposal to the council as a minister and to do so. In fact, we supported the suggestion because we felt it was important for us to consider more judge experience and sex ratios. Both the district and the Supreme Court confirmed this in their sentences, did not specify that it had been permitted, solely on the evaluable protocol of the study. The fact is, too, that the Minister's proposal goes into Congress and a greater proportion of members of Congress agree to it, members of the then state of the independent party, revered, and Bjart's future. But why is this proposal presented here today? I'm asking. The management board has not suggested this in its discussion. The Director of the Generals believes that there is no reason for initiative in this regard but points to the need for a non-responsibilitiesal general administration, i.e. Excel documents from the Committee of Education, both the Committee of Justice and the Committee of Education, elsewhere in the Management Board. That is exactly what we observed in our study of the Bible. spring, especially after sitting in a number of meetings at the Board of Directors and Control Committee, listening to the Chairman of the Justice Committee. Then there were a number of questions about this food. This mild - tempered event today is offered to Pirata and the United States, two groups of five in a position of government. I agree with the last speaker, but I'm not sure that this incident will increase confidence in politics or in the General Assembly. [[Up front.]] I'm convinced that it isn't, and I don't support this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u8	A respectable president. There has been an untrusted proposal for a minister of justice. This proposal is made by the order of a judge in the Court of the Land, a new and important judgment level here on the land. It is a principle that the administration of public employment or office is to select the most qualified candidate. The points of importance need to be sufficiently informed and had the judicial committee involved in that role by hand. There are many things to say about the work of this committee, and I have been there before in the Public Assembly deliverer to find no new method of selecting judges in this country. In particular, I make comments on how to calculate the Committee, and I think it is extremely dangerous and random to explain the outcome each time. It takes no more than a single factor by a few points or a grade, then the outcome is completely different and completely changed. The gift itself is a unique solution, and it has come to be highly critical. But okay. However, if a minister plans to compromise the opinion of the judicial committee, it is fundamental that he will create such a change from the opinion of the candidates for further investigation. So I suppose the minister would compare the qualifications of the four candidates, whom the committee considered to be among the 15 most qualified, with the four whom the minister recommended to replace them. The Supreme Court felt that a minister had not done this, and he felt that it was contrary to administrative law that later it would not be improved. Clearly, then, a minister did not legalize his actions in this order and proposal to the Council. V.E.G. A minister has this sentence on his back, as well as a secret piece of information to the General at the time. And now, following this conclusion, there is considerable and intolerable uncertainty about national judgment, and it appears that the case will not only be taken to the Supreme Court but also out of Europe. Of course, this situation is embarrassing and completely unacceptable for the legal system. You might wonder, " What is the situation if mistrust exists at the highest level? ' Minister of Justice will be accepted here today. I don't think there's a doubt that this government has fallen, it's unsatisfactory, and it needs to form a new government in the country. We have found that the present government is conceived of as a stationary and slave - house minister, and it is beautifully spoken of by people who are members of the mob, the government has not supported the issues of self - worth that have been presented here in the High General Assembly and has brought to good the worst. Thus, the government groups have offered practical suggestions that were shown in the payment of the fiscal bill over and over again. The people of Stockholm want another government, a government that works in behalf of the elderly and the poor and the lowest paid, our workers as slaves for a small salary. It is important to work to eliminate taxes from the under 300 you have paid. K. and thus end the long - term journey, and this government continues to tax poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u9	A respectable president. I think this case is about the confidence, the trust of the nation in the courts, the trust of the national rights, the national trust in the Minister of Justice. The Supreme Court concluded that the Minister of Justice had violated administrative law by order of 15 judges in the National Court. The government was sentenced to pay damages to two candidates, so a minister is not secure. There was a violation of administrative law, and twice he was sentenced to the Supreme Court, and he has not taken responsibility for those judgments. I believe the Minister of Justice should have asked for a new jury opinion to suit candidates for standing, i.e. If she thought something was wrong on the jury's opinion. In the court, the secretary, by permission of the president, says: ▪... a minister still had a administrative responsibility for the order of the judges to the Court of the State [...] and was subject to it by the general rules of the administrative court, both in the handling of the case as well as in the material decisions made by the minister when she proposed to the Council that certain individuals be appointed in the office of the judges. In this regard it is strange that the judicial committee is in charge of all the procedures of the land, but a minister is responsible for all those appointed by it. This whole case is unbelievable and must be reviewed for the sake of reconciliation and confidence in the appointment of judges. It cannot be claimed that a minister has chosen the 15 most qualified members of the National Court, let alone the judicial committee. In the court of the province of Reykjavík, it says that the administrative treatment of the minister was not in accordance with the regulations of the law of No. 50/2016, as well as the written and unregistered rules of the administrative court on the case and also the assessment of candidates and comparisons between them. So it's a very strange thing to do, and it needs to be revised.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u10	Mr. President. A concierge proposal for distrust is the right to provide the European Commission with a firm arrangement, and such rights should not be handled lightly or in any way. Therefore, I was sorry to hear it from officials in the government and was not greatly discouraged by speaking down this important role as members of the Government and also in the administration board, to support the European Commission. It is the unsaid right of the members of Congress who make this suggestion. Let us respect that right. For us at a council hall who are not the couriers of this proposal, it is up to us to review the case, examine every case, and then take a critical position on whether and when the minister must accept responsibility for his duties and/or political decisions. I admit that this is very difficult because I had made a living, especially in the light of what is happening. in the government covenants and what we've all been discussing, and I don't doubt that there's a sincere basis for improving work within the council and from the outside. That is also true of the government. I would have liked to see a discussion here about other standards, other practices, and that the government not only put this into print in a government contract but also take the initiative in improving the process. We want to be careful, and we are going to take this discussion seriously. A minister has discussed his full responsibility, has made that clear, applied his expertise, reviewed the evidence that I do not doubt, and made his conclusions. Eventually, the responsibility is there. What, then, does such responsibility involve? In my opinion, that's what the question is. In effect, the Supreme Court made this clear and made it very clear in its conclusions. The minister received a clear warning from his leading experts. The minister opposed them, made his political decisions about that conclusion. The minister did not inform the council. Everybody knows that. I didn't brief a team of colleagues. It's very difficult when you're in the government, and that's why I understand how you're reacting at the highest level too. Counsellors. Everybody's holding up a little bit. It's a little bit of a team. Therefore, the government was not enlightened. I don't doubt it, either. a prime minister would not have allowed the case to pass through the government if we had been informed of these limitations, which was then revealed to be on the case. On that foundation was the highest. Minister convicted. An agent agrees with this, clearly. Therefore, taking the initiative is not initiated because the Supreme Court has already spoken in the case. There is no need for an agent to review this situation accurately. As a result, we are faced with the fact that the State is not only subject to damage, likely to dozens, if not to hundreds of millions, but to a degree of trial. Justice has been created at least in a short period of time, perhaps longer, if the case goes to the Court of Human Rights. This interjugation phase that we've been building up and we've been talking about a long time and now the Court's Rights - I brought up at the time of a Senate hearing proposal on the interjugation stage because it's so important to build up the legal state in the country, to continue to do so - is an extremely important tool, and I warn that in this discussion, the individuals who already have important jobs do it out of great integrity. I'd like to say that. However, the consequences of this political decision and the official action of a minister are serious. So here we are: What about distrust? How about some hearsay from the Minister before we go to distrust? That is not necessarily common in Icelandic society. Not long ago, a minister of the Interior government, not for having been judged by the Supreme Court, sentenced to office work, but because of the heavy issue, thus shouldering responsibility at the time of the crisis. This was also done by health minister in his day at the People's Party. When the situation was very difficult, people went away and faced what they saw, even to increase their confidence in the foundations of society, which may have been the case. The Council of Justice, the council. There men and women shouldered responsibility. It has been discussed, and at the time I felt that ministers who have been sentenced to the Supreme Court must consider their position. But let us also examine this with all reasonableness. I have to face the fact that a certain fairness exists when ministers are judged to have taken counseling and advice from experts and officials in the board that after passing through the process, they have established their decision based on the advice of specialised men. On that basis they were judged. I believe a minister has had many opportunities to step aside but has chosen instead to continue his service as a government minister. Prime Minister, the highest. A secretary of transportation not long ago, just a few months ago, criticized this same minister in a very harsh way, not necessarily in a mild way, as considered earlier, but in a somewhat harsh way for these government transfers. This was criticism that the Supreme Court then gave a strong answer, as well as an agent. In the end, we're still in the process. It's about how we change them. We need to take a stand on that suggestion, this particular proposal. We're looking up at the same old thing. Government groups are set against the wall, the council is set against the wall so that nothing will change. Everybody's fine. The team's like this and gay and nothing changes. What I find sad is not to take the initiative on the part of the government, on the part of those who sit on the throne of the government who say, "Let's do this, let's do it." There are so many things this is all about. This case is first and last of all about a basic prince, fundamental in Icelandic society, transparency and trust in society's foundation. That's what we have to keep in mind when we vote below, and that's what we revereers will have in mind later today at the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u11	Mr. President. Trust is precious and earned. To regain trust, a great deal of trust and determination is needed. Minister of Justice is a window of trust because of his illegal official activities in the order of a judge of the National Court. No one is responsible except for it itself. But instead of acknowledging their errors, instead of working hard to regain our trust again, she shares with the judge in her own fault and digs ever deeper grave. We distrust a minister of justice because she has no respect for the authority entrusted to her in her office. The victory of Andersen broke a law at the order of judges. It confirms the Supreme Court. She did so against the advice of experts. Not only once did experts warn ministers, not twice, but repeatedly. She does not know how to exercise her power, so she puts her own interests and pleases her, and then blames each established system of government after another. At that point, a normal person would have simply taken his bag, leaving much of the country's opinion to the highest level. Minister of Justice should resign. From the time she neglected her research duty under the order of a court judge in the land, the minister of Justice has lost confidence in the office, as well as for all institutions who dare to fulfill their role. To do this, she uses all available means to spread the discussion into one thing, with the loyal support of her colleagues in the Independence Party. In this town, it is a long tradition to constantly direct the discussion toward technical details, formality, and the extreme fragility when someone dares to point out the subject and nature of the conflict. In fact, independents are in their debate tradition trapped in the ancient thinking of former members of the Icelanders of the past, as Halldór Laxness describes so well in the Interior Curbonian language. By permission of the President: ▪ It has been claimed that the Icelanders do not submit to reasonable arguments, not only to the arguments of their faith, but also to solve their troubles by engaging in the vocabulary and debate over cocky shit that is not relevant but also to panic and make noise whenever it comes to the heart of the matter. The point of the matter is that the U.S. legisan agent counts the case and legal issues of the case that lay the basis for the vote. It will not release the minister from responsibility, as are the Ministers of the Supreme Ministers. Governments try to convince us, but they confirm it, and they further support the claim that a minister should resign. There is a possibility that a minister would violate a law against the order of a judge in the U.S. court. It's a fact that she did so against all expert counselors and without adequate logic. There is a possibility that there is a connection between the minister and the members appointed by the minister in place of others considered more qualified by a professional committee. They see the peopleSigríður and they don't look Andersen good for ministers. In view of this, we also demand that the members of Congress who intend to defend the minister of mistrust come up here in a pita and explain their position. My words are especially so. Senators of the left movement ◯ green supply, while nine out of ten of those who would vote for a minister today would want to go away. Let's do better. Talkers say what. Senators for elections. How do they defend this? The above - mentioned Inner Cathedral also contains the story of the bread of animals, of the bread that the Jónsdóttir of Eyrún was assigned to move between towns. She got lost in a fog and wandered around for a few days. However, that woman did not touch the bread in this predicament. When asked why Guðrún had not done so, Heather replied: "What is entrusted to a man is entrusted to him. Minister of Justice was entrusted with establishing a new level of judgment for the benefit of the public. She has betrayed that trust. Senators represent the public, and their responsibilities are great. The public trusted members of Congress, including the U.S. for monitoring the Executive Director and, in the power of that role, we vote here today. So it's in our hands in this room to leave it at the highest. Ministers are responsible for their actions and replace them. Mr. President. In the vote below, all members are faced with an important decision: we can choose to vote with the common interests and to increase confidence that the law in this country should be equal to all, or to betray the trust that is committed to us, and we can vote with the social security and special interest care of the ruling class in our country. The power is ours, Mr President, and our responsibility is great.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u12	A respectable president. Finally, there was a mistrust that the government has been preaching for months. In fact, the diplomats who fail to recognize this defectible arrangement are more than the movers. Sisters Pirats and the United States alone have been moved to call for mistrust to the minister standing here, the minister of the law who followed the letter at all at the order of the judges of the new court. There are not many laws dealing with the appointment of judges at the National Court for the first time, but they are very clear. The Committee of Qualifications offers suggestions on the subject of a minister. A minister may compromise the suggestion that he has a perplexing view of matters. The minister then proposes his suggestions to the Council, either to agree or to deny the proposal. The General agreed in June. My proposals for 15 individuals in the court of the United States court. As noted, during the council, the Court's appointment of women and men was urgent. This was shown in the talks and articles and the committees of members, but also in my conversations with the leaders of the classes, when the decision of a judicial committee was met. I self-concerned that judge experience had not been given sufficient weight on the part of an emissary committee, so my proposal was different from that of a judicial hearing in that nine more experienced federal hearings were added to the group of the most qualified committees. My proposal to the Council was thus different from the proposal made by a panel of four people to me. These four individuals had not only been judged worthy of the judicial committee for the provision of the national rights. Rather, they were also considered worthy of their own judicial committees long ago. This shift marked the lot of men and women in the land's rights. I'm telling you, I've never had such an important organization established in this country by a constant share of both genders. A respectable president. I'm sorry it happened on my watch, and I didn't specifically refer to sexuality or gender's reasons for this order. It just happened because I didn't see any grammatical reasons why a sitting judge with decades'experience could not be as good as the 15 judicial committees thought would be. Last December. The Supreme Court stated that I had not done enough research before making a suggestion to the Council. That would have led me to the 10th degree. Government law that says so, like what to do. Councilmen know that cases should be adequately informed before making a decision. It's called an investigation order in the administrative court. According to one study, there is only this: enough enlightenment. There is no explanation as to what is sufficient. This has become a custom, not all of it, under certain circumstances, and is a very regular matter for courts. The ship of 15 judges in one form is unprecedented, likely to be unique in Icelandic history. At Congress, I'd like to say, "I've given a large study of candidates' applications for office at the National Court's Office, the review of a judicial committee, the protest of candidates and the degree and degree of judicial committees and of their practice in general. I weighed the viewpoint of my advisers, but also outside, and all the laws and regulations involved in the case, and the law, and especially the viewpoint of the general members of the council and the head of the judicial committee. I thought I'd done enough research before making a decision to propose to the General Suggestions for candidates other than the Committee. I thought that I'd done enough research, and I gave myself absolutely all of this in the door, in this hall, that I deliberately intended to cause any damage to the courts, that I had intended to impair the public belief in the legal system or courts in this way. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do anything like that. When the Supreme Court of December now considers the court's judgment to be a reason for my resignation or the mistrust of all the Generals on me, there is some misunderstanding over the trilogy of the state. In making his own decisions, a minister has not been the last to speak of the interpretation of law. Of course, when it comes to ecstatic rules and differences in interpretations, the decision of a government may be ruled by courts. Then there are courts that have the final words. This is especially true of the European Court's ecstatic rules, and it is equally reasonable that, in some cases, courts represent government, ministers, rural society, or state agency. Courts themselves disagree. The sentence of the district is turned back to the Supreme Court. Then our main scholars and lawyers have identified the interpretation of laws and regulations. It is simply the legal state here that is at work, and we have agreed to meet that conclusion. The suggestion of mistrust seems to me to be a sign. Transporters do not get a decision of court decisions and would like some kind of penance on a court condition. Men have tried to squeeze this impetus out of their jobs as well. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. It has been hoped that there would be no success in requiring this improvement by the U.S. Marshal's agent. I'm here to mention it in a recent letter from the U.S. Marshal's commission to present an initiative inspection on the work of the Commission. Then, too, I would like to mention that a committee commissioned to evaluate the qualifications of judges has itself come to that conclusion, changed the view entirely from summer onward, and presented it with their latest review that it was not natural, of course, that objective assessments were made for all applicants, could be concluded in this way. A respectable president. Few things are so bad that they don't offer anything good. This distrust suggests that the power to appoint judges is a minister, not a faceless administrative committee. You see, the Committees for Qualification will never be held accountable. A minister can be held accountable, as are those who are now trying to do in this way. I'd like to ask the entire U.S. Congress to respect me for the pity that I will not vote with this proposal, but will agree with what happened with one occasion. The senator of the government stand, that it will be remembered how to vote below.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u13	A respectable president. Some of the biggest developments that have occurred in the Icelandic legal system were the establishment of the land's rights. With land rights, we finally moved closer to what is known in the lands around us in terms of an appeal court. I would like to quote the words of Ólöf the vow Nordal, which recommended a change in the courts at the time, but in her case here at the council, it was considered that there was a significant improvement in the Icelandic legal system that involved important progress. A respectable president. I agree with her. A land court was not established overnight. The establishment of the National Court was behind the tireless work of the Ministry of Justice, formerly the Ministry of Internal Affairs, for years as well as a group appointed to prepare the establishment of this important court of appeals. An interjugation committee was also involved, and a group of professionals were also called upon to give their opinion on a bill concerned with national rights. Why all this work? Yes, because professional practice at the institution of a complete court order is absolutely necessary. It matters because the courts are one of the three pillars of society and are in the Republic of Iceland's Constitution to find the principle that the court is separated from the legislazone. By order of the National Court, it was concluded that instead of being alone with a minister, the Council was a sort of security valve with the executive authority to ensure that a party politics had nothing to do with it. Me and the Icelanders would like to include advanced democracies, and it was a great deal that the former Minister of the State of Ólöf Nordal faced a challenge, as it were. Hence, it is heavier than tears at the highest rate. The minister of justice Sigríður Ásthildur Andersen succeeded when she was placed in the court of justice. It was a matter of appointing judges at the National Court and being given an assessment committee that should be evaluated for candidates. Much interest was found in taking place in the newly formed court, which was large but clearly concluded by the Committee: The Commission submitted its conclusions to 15 of the most qualified individuals, and the report was no less than 115 pages long. When it came to it, it was at the top. The Minister of Justice has decided to violate the decision made by the Commission on the suitability of candidates and to select four persons whom she would particularly like to put in court, individuals who did not consider fit to be fit for a national hearing. She had her changed list of members of the General Assembly, which despite the loud protests of the government stand, including the highest. Prime Minister, accepted the list of ministers unchanged, but more part of the council did not know because all experts who had been involved had advised. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A zealous minister of justice from what she was doing. She was repeatedly told that this would violate the government's investigation order. It knew what it was. Not when they received this assignment last summer. It knew what it was. Councilmen and the highest. Neither did the prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, when she went to the administrative work of the Independence Party and the Supreme Class. Minister of Justice. The minister of Justice chose not to listen to all this counsel. The Supreme Court has already made a twofold decision. The Minister of Justice has failed to fulfill the investigational rights of the administration. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice quotes a decision made in the Supreme Court repeatedly to disagree with this decision of the highest court. In his letter to the Board of Directors and Control Committee, who arrived this week, the U.S. President's agent said that he could only be seen there, i.e. in the Supreme Court hearings, if sufficiently informed about the facts and legal issues, it is therefore not necessary to further investigation of the minister's procedure in this matter. This, a respectable president, in trade, promises that the case is informed. A respectable president. Official records at the highest. Ministers of justice were in opposition to governmental laws. After the decisioning of the Supreme Court, there have been some facts in the case of a Ministry that also has an ambiguity. It has been reported that a minister opposed all expert advice within and outside the Ministry. Also built at the highest. The Minister of Justice protects her from responsibility but from the general body of Congress who had voted for the order. Such a defense has also been taken out of the table by court hearings of the Supreme Court. Finally declared the highest. A minister of justice said that she had been in desperate need of only one option to go this way. It also proved wrong. According to the above letter by the U.S. legislator, a two - week appointment is not applicable to the court order of a judge in the land, so that the minister's defense also fails. Then, with the permission of the president, the Supreme Court also stated that insufficient investigation and errors of the government's judgment will generally not be justified on the basis of judgment rates. A respectable president. Today, there are a number of judicial cases due to the highest standards of office. Ministers of Justice are moving around the entire Icelandic legal system, all the points of judgment, district, national rights, and Supreme Court, and they can be expected to extend beyond the rocks. The matter is primarily about the independence of courts, as per the Constitution, and compare with Article 6. European Convention of Human Rights. There shall be no doubt in the private courts; and in all doubt shall there be no doubt. If in doubt, immediate corrective action is necessary. A respectable president. Independence rights are not above doubt after treatment at the highest level. Minister of Justice at the order of judges. It must be corrected to correct the damage or to reduce the damage done. For many weeks now, government officials have answered the obvious question: Is the Minister of Justice being pleased with the Minister of Ministers, but it seems that the government leaders were not aware of the seriousness of the matter and are unfortunate. Icelandic taxpayers have already received their first accounts because of an illegal legal hearing and will not respond, there is the danger of invalidating all the judgments of the new U.S. National Court for many years back in time. As for this, a respectable president, it's all about the business, so today we're paying the vote for mistrust at the highest level. Minister of Justice to restore the new level of judgment, National Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u14	Madam President. Here is a mistrust proposal made by a part of the government's opposition. I'll vote against the proposal. It is not only about the Minister of Justice but, in fact, about the government as a whole. [[Foreground on: No.]] I disagreed with the office of Minister of Justice last year, which is at the root of this proposal. It hasn't changed. Here, however, is a suggestion for distrust and other viewpoints. The damage is clearly done. Already the official work that accounts for this discussion has already been done. This was done in the last government of the country, before the last election. If the mistrust is accepted, two things may happen; either the minister will go and a new minister of justice accepts. What, then, would happen? Does anything change? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Should the new minister appoint new judges and replace the rest? How is this done? Clearly, then, the agreement with the proposal solves no material problem. The other thing that could happen would be that the Independence Party abandons the government and that would be the end of it. Do I want another government without any General elections, other than the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter? My answer is no. When we left green walked to this government business, it was clear that we would not have anything to say about our team of fellow workers as much as they did about ours. It has not changed materially since the decision to participate in this government work. The Supreme Court confirmed the internal minor opinion of the administration and monitoring committee that the current prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter proposed and wrote last year. Last year, the Court's office of Justice led to the changes in government and material cooperation. The Board of Directors and Control Committee has taken a look at the details of the case as well as the agents of the Generals, and this work and hint will be used to revise the administration to an order in public office. The judge's Honour is also on trial in the Supreme Court. Our member greener to this government and support to all its ministers is based on the many fine developments presented in the cooperation declaration of the collaborators of Catherine's Government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir. The government renders an important work in our left greens and is just beginning the ideal period in which challenges lie ahead of fulfilling an ambitious declaration of cooperation. I can refer to important matters and work that have already begun, e.g. in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment, and I also present the powerful leadership of our prime minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, for this government. I want, for example. Reminds us of what happened last week at the highest level. For example, the prime minister stopped the mobilization and declared that the Lands Bank would not be sold. Our visit to the left green is important to the government. This proposal is about the government, and I want it to continue with its important task because the damage is done regarding the controversial official acts performed by the Minister of Justice last year. [[Foreground on: No.]] My opinion that the subject has not changed is vital to learning from that mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u15	Right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u16	[[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] We all agree to learn from that mistake. Remember, though, that the government of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir has not really involved that matter. I have full confidence in the government and the minister and trust that the prime minister will continue to bring this government to good works, land, and nation's welfare.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u17	A respectable president. After my last speech, I am impressed with the talks given around 2009 when council members of the left greens opposed to applying for involvement in the European Union, but now they do. A similar speech. I don't like to apply, but I'm still going to apply. But we're not going to review it here, there's plenty of time to do it. I'm going to begin, a respectable president, to say that I strongly agree with the highest degree. At the end of his talk, a minister said that we could not give power to a facial government. It's with the Minister, and I'm sure the responsibility is there too. So I agree with her that when something like this comes from a committee of the minister, of course, reviews it, and must have to be considered because he is responsible. Well, then it starts with me, it looks like the trouble going on, and then the mess actually starts, what the play is. It is very important, since ministers, especially prime ministers, are eager to learn from all these things, very good that men learn from them, and then we need to make a big difference. We need to change the way people look at such a faceless committee. If the minister is to be responsible, he must have authority, authority, the ability to bear the responsibility, but he is also to answer for the responsibility. I asked many questions in this talk chair for the highest degree. Prime Minister: When must a minister depart? If a minister has committed a serious crime, when should he be replaced? Of course, there were no answers. V.E.G. The prime minister did not see why it was defined. I wondered if a minister should step aside when enough yelling that he should depart, when enough people come out here and say, "You're supposed to leave. ' Does that mean that he is to be replaced? Is that the rule? Should a minister be replaced when he is sentenced to the highest court? When? For what? Does it matter too? Should he be removed if he violates government regulations? Should he step off if he drives too fast? When must the minister depart? If there is any doubt in this matter, of course, we need to consider it. I said this a few years ago when I was at the highest. Present health minister was convicted by the Supreme Court that the minister should take his bag as environmental minister because the highest court of the country had judged it. I'm in the same place. I don't think she should be serving as a minister today. As a result, I am at the height. A minister of justice has to be removed because she has been judged at the highest court level in the country. While we haven't better defined what has to happen to a ministerial servant in such situations, I feel that a minister should step down, that's very simple. I also agree with those who say there's a lot of uncertainty about the rest of the country's rights. What will be the case with this right, this practice that has come up in the judicial system, and everyone was going to agree on it? Then we found out that the information we had wasn't all on the board. Were they knowingly concealed? I don't think so. I think maybe they were secretive, that we have not been informed of this counseling and criticism within the Ministry because they forgot to tell us about it. I'm going to stay at that place, I'm not going to say that men were deliberately hiding it from us. Would that have changed anything? Yes, it might have changed the vote here at the General. I think it would have changed something for someone, maybe they would have asked questions that are now asking questions. A respectable president. But I must mention it, and I hope we are not looking up at such things in the near future, to the highest. The secretary of transportation and the secretary of the district mentioned, the national court, the national court. It's an ugly surprise for us to do it, or not to do it, but those who did it in their time, and those who stuck with it, are to be ashamed of what I knew. We shouldn't have to look at such things, never again. Never again. What we look forward to today is the respect of the Lawgiver, the respect of the Allegorium. This is the highest respect. The prime minister formed a government on the outside. Somebody said something about a really big, wide government. What is the appeal when it comes to the width? Is it just sitting as long as you can, letting anything go? V.E.G. Prime Minister is responsible for this government. She must answer: When will men shoulder responsibility in her cooperation under her control? That's what I'm asking. I reiterate what I said earlier that I agree with the highest. Minister of Justice, when she says that a minister must make decisions, a minister needs responsibility, but a minister also needs to have a choice, and he must bear the responsibility for what he decides.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u18	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a lack of trust at the highest level. Minister of Justice. The first traveller of the case, please. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, in his history over logical support, and others aggressor. Councilmen who support this proposal have reviewed the terms of the Council for which mistrust should be declared at the highest level. Minister. The choice of the highest is considered. Minister of judges in the National Court, where the Supreme Court considered the Supreme Court to be the highest court. Ministers violate administrative law by not evaluating a judicial committee's order at the National Court, the 15 judges recognized by the judicial committee. In short, the minister should have compared the qualifications of the four judicial committees to those of the highest degree. A minister decided to replace it, according to the factors highest. A minister laid the groundwork. The Supreme Court's assessment of insufficient data for or no data, as reflected in the Supreme Court's review for the highest estimates. Minister to state that such treatment is contrary to Article 10. Government law. In fact, the same principle applies to the treatment of Generalis at the highest level. Ministers in whom this limit of the court treatment has not been corrected. Minister. This order by a judge in the National Court is based on a legal adjustment in the order of a judge from 2010, where the issue of judicial action was enlarged. Despite everything, it is expected to be the highest. The Minister of Justice may compromise the decision of the Committee and propose a new proposal for the General for approval, such as the Supreme Court. Minister Sigríður Á. Andersen did in this case. The Commission and the Commission reviewed the case based on the Supreme Court decision, and in the end, I decided, to cross the story quickly, to give the General agent the chance to decide whether he would initiate an initiative check on the case. The agent answered that question and identified his answer to the Allellist's Web site in a letter from March 2. to the management and monitoring committee, that he considers the review of the courts to answer adequately to the preparations for the Minister's decisions on the case. It is also interesting to note that the agent plans to initiate a initiative, as shown in the summary on page 24. 15 to initiate a initiative check on the effects of stairways and how they are assessed according to administrative policies. V.E.G. A minister makes his decision and takes responsibility for it. She had the legal authority to do so. Even though it's the highest. Minister of Justice has gone against 10th. Government law, and I don't downplay the Supreme Court decision and I understand that there is a discussion against the protocol that seems ecstatic to many. Ministers of the law bring their conclusions. It should be noted that both district and Supreme Court indicated the requirement of two candidates for an invalidation of the order adopted by the General Assembly on June 1, 2017. Since then, the highest. Ministers are elected in elections. She has responded to the court of Supreme Court. V.E.G. Minister has called for consultation with members of Parliament. V.E.G. Minister has come before you. The management board at an open meeting, discuss the case here several times in the conference hall, and answer questions - all questions. A respectable president. I reiterate that I will not belittle the proposal as such. I will not belittle the conclusions of the Supreme Court, but there are many other factors that are relevant here that I have tried to trace in my speech and that have been presented in many cases. Senators. I'm saying here that I can't support the proposal and support the highest degree. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u19	Madam President. I must admit that I do not have any particular joy at this time in the public speaking program. Sadly, no more can be seen than that a minister made a significant mistake in his handling of the appointment of 15 judges to the National Court. There are two Supreme Court hearings from December 19, 2017. An agent of the Generals in his letter to the Board of Directors and Following Committee of the Generals, March 2, 2000. it has been concluded that the trial of the minister of justice had been insufficient to inform the matter sufficiently so that a minister could make an alternative decision about the applicant's qualifications other than the judicial committee had previously taken. Was a trial, says emissary, the minister in this regard contrast to Article 10. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993, in which he executes this judgment. Then, according to an agent's paraphrase, it says in the court that this in itself led to the immediate treatment of the General of Justice, where there was no limit to the problems of a minister's case when a vote at the General Assembly came to pass. 20th degree. track No. 115/2011, of the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, is appointed to the Minister of Ministers on the obligation to seek the opinion of the Ministry to ensure that all Ministers and Ministers are in accordance with an unregistered legal court order, i.e. that decisions and actions are based on objective views or legitimate viewpoints that take into account the official interests of each subject. Madam President, it will only be seen that a minister had a duty to inform the General on the subject of the counsel she received from the Council of Government. The General must be able to trust that a minister will not conceal information that could interfere with their handling and results. In view of this, what confidence the General can have for the minister must have. This point has gained much weight in my mind in this matter. I would like to use this opportunity, Madam President, and make serious comments in the case of a judicial hearing in the national court case. The committee chose to suggest 15 people, as many as they were to be appointed, on the basis of a score assessment in an excel document where the human variability is measured in the thousand largest pairs. This raises serious questions as to the role of democratic representatives in the appointment of judges. Is democratic elected agents merely to be stamped on the decisions of uncaring committees, who have no democratic authority and no responsibility? I welcome the decision of the U.S. Marshal to initiate an open-label investigation on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u20	Madam President. Trust and responsibility are big words and rich ones. Trust and responsibility are often used in connection with each other. A duty is another word of the same hurt. We trust people in something, they have our trust. We often do things that people say and we trust. That's worth your trust. Sadly, people fail to trust us. It says one thing, but it does another. This will keep us from the things that matter. They say that they did everything they could, but they don't. The opposition to trust is distrust. When someone betrays our trust, the result is distrust. We don't trust the person anymore. It changes the whole nature of communication. Faith has been broken. People are responsible for their actions, and they are to render an account. That is a universal and accepted truth and one of the basic components of our community covenant. Sometimes people claim to be responsible for something. Then we will trust in it. It is often called to shoulder responsibility. Sadly, such statements have become empty. They have no content or consequences. People lose their responsibility, or they claim to have accepted responsibility in some way that is completely meaningless. Only then can it be said that they can be held accountable by what is available. A requirement is another expression with meaning and content. You're supposed to do your duty. You have a responsibility to relate something or to inform on all things. That's how you have responsibilities. Sadly, people fail in their duties. Then comes the thought of trust or distrust, responsibility, or irresponsibility. Madam President. It is very difficult for me to stand in that chair on this beautiful day to discuss a council proposal of distrust at the highest level of trust. Minister of Justice. But it is my duty. A statement of distrust is a serious matter. I'm not taking it lightly. I was a sponsor for the last government when decisions were made concerning the orders of the judges of the National Court. I was not just a sponsor of the government, but I supported the Supreme Court proposal. Minister of Justice. So I can't avoid it. To me, this is basically a matter of very simple things. It's about the communication of the Generals and the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice. It's about the highest-level communication. Justice minister to his colleagues in the last government and its members. On the highest level of communication. The Minister of Justice to Ministers and members of Congress, I cannot say anything about the matter according to the nature of the case. The General Parliament and its members usually have no choice but to trust a minister in order to represent the council in such a way that it is good and all the laws and regulations, he has fulfilled the administrative duties laid upon him and informing a body of Congress on all matters that may be relevant to the payment of the case. This has clearly been shown to be the highest. The minister of justice is in preparation for the cause of this mistrust, not being handled properly. On the one hand, he did not fully fulfill his study duties and compromises. As to this, the Supreme Court has judged it. However, it has been observed that he chose not to inform his fellow soldiers in the political community or the Council, which is more serious, of the highest degree. On the contrary, a minister would have resisted the counsel of the officials in this important matter. Here's the thing to keep in mind. A minister himself is in the center of all decisions taken regarding the orders of the judges at the National Court. He did not confirm or follow the counsel of officials. No, he took matters into his own hands against counsel. As a result, a minister was sentenced to the Supreme Court, just for the details specifically warned by officials. Hence, he alone is responsible. He failed his duty. The minister chose not to inform the council that he would object to counsel. On the contrary, he stood firm to claim that everything was all right here. He failed his information duty toward the General Assembly. He did not live up to the confidence that was placed in him in this matter, at least not in what is being said here. Hence, it remains that a minister would make decisions in this case that would fail to meet the requirements for him. He's broken trust. Neither the General Assembly, the Ministry of Justice, nor the courts of the United States can live in Iceland's government as a minister who has no trust. Neither can the public in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u21	Madam President. V.E.G. The minister of finance now resorts to speech but is in a fallacy. He points to a court of honor and believes that the lack of confidence should not be used because it has not been used since 1940. However, it is part of a government that has stressed reformation and that has imposed the right simply not on how things can be fixed if never a new custom is to be adopted. Earlier, the conservatives may feel that it is indistinguishable when an illegal order is under way in an entire court order. It may be an eight - year - old minister who quotes the Conspiracy Conference and believes that the case occurred in the two last days. He may want to look up from the Moggas, observe the world, listen to the public, and realize what people have been talking about in the last eight years. I felt that the prime minister's defense was overwash, cat washing, and in fact he was killing the case on a plane. A case of the highest order. The Minister of Justice is not under consideration in the courts. This is the result of its illegal actions that cause problems. The cause is to be taken, the disease should be taken, not the cause of the disease. Finally, there is an outback and a full-on campaign. The foremost testimony to this inadequacy is that we should, of course, accept this distrust. It is not considered that there is a grammatical view of increasing judge experience or increasing the number of women as far as it is today, if the case is not examined and if all applicants are not evaluated. It has been observed here that the U.S. Marshal of the Council also intends to initiate an initiative study on the implementation of assessments in general at the administration and order of government officials. However, he spoke of this first in 2016, not in connection with this national court case, but in other matters. And finally, the highest. Secretary of the budget: We're not voting on the person Sigríður Á. Andersen, we're paying the highest vote. Minister of Justice. And it is inconceivable to assume that there is a personal matter here. This is a serious matter. This is about whether we as a community will rise up from a lack of trust and make us a better reputation for the common people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u22	V.E.G. President. This was a reference to raising up trust. In any case, I have to say that today's discussion indicates that some political powers in this country seem to want to feed on distrust and distrust. Here are many words, some are exaggerations, others are pernicious views. I believe that it is a right to say that, of course, it is a perfectly grammatical view to a judge's order to take extra into consideration the experience of a judge. It is not possible to argue that there are illegal views or irreprehensible views. [[Up in the hall: right.]] It is also important to remember that the controversy that eventually arose in the Supreme Court case discussed here was about how well the study had been done, not about other factors. In judicial cases, an invalidation of the order of the judges had been made and a host of other items were collected. There was a controversy over the evaluation of how an ecstatic rule had been conducted. It's the big deal here, and I don't know what people have said here, and I don't know what they've said. It does not give us reason to do so. I wanted to say that the discussion has reflected that on the side of the management side, the approach varies from group to group. In some estimates, it's all about this matter. In some ways, this situation clearly violates this minister, even because of some other matter. [[Up front.]] This has been shown in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u23	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u24	Not for what? paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, and others in this discussion. For some, it's obviously a way of playing some kind of acting with the government. This has also been shown to be true. Of course, it is important that we keep that in mind when we vote later. This is a different approach. There's one particular thing I wanted to say because there are some of them. Councilmen, particularly on the behalf of the restorations and actually the people of Stockholm, specifically noted that the counsel of officials had been different, and a minister had a duty to inform them in a trial during the council. It so happens that in the administration and monitoring committee, this subject was under extreme pressure. Scholars who came before the committee had such views. All classes, including the Cruces, were present during that discussion and came into votes aware that there was a disagreement, a legal conflict, of how the ecstatic rule of 10. Government law would be carried out in this respect. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It wasn't as if it were a secret to me if there were differences in opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u25	Wait a minute. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u26	A respectable president. I'm gonna try to get us back on track in this discussion. The Supreme Court will soon pass judgment on a suitable judge of the court. Let us say that the Supreme Court honors a judge of the land's rights. This will be the turnoff to the European Court of Human Rights, which will take two to three years to reach a decision, and at that time the Court's trial will be correct. Even if the European Court of Human Rights then finds out that they are all fine, it will not be until two or three years. This intermediate level has been damaged. The damage is done and it gets bigger. We are here, and I for my part, going to this distrust against this Minister for that, not for the minister's person, and I refuse to give myself such a speech. This is about the consequences of the minister's behavior, how he behaves. I'm gonna try to go over a few points that others haven't. Councilmen have mentioned. V.E.G. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson said it was about the minister's character. Why? Why should we be expressing confidence in the person of the minister? Really? Don't we have better things to do? Hv. The directors of the Board of Governments all said that Generalis's agent would not take initiative. As if it were in support of the case. He points out that he does not do so because he does not see reason to be more enlightened. It's all out. That's not a complicated point. A respectable president. I think it's the highest. A minister can understand this well and can stop acting differently. V.E.G. Secretary Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson says the incident is not to increase confidence in the Council. I'm afraid I agree with him, if the conclusion is that a minister keeps his seat, we'll agree with him, unfortunately. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir then covers three points. It says that the proposal is about the government. Wait a minute. A senator to read the motion. It is simply in a material way wrong. A senator, and I just want to add it: A lot of people are holding me. Hv. A senator also notes that VG was not involved in this case at the time, and I find it interesting that she mentioned it. And why? Yes, because it's a monster, isn't it? Because the senators know this is wrong. It's wrong what happened, and it's supposed to be their responsibility from the government, but it's the highest. A minister does not accept that responsibility. We must all see this. It's just that damn political bitch that always gets in our way when we're going to do something right here. Hv. A senator also asks: " Shouldn't we learn from this? Yeah. What has the highest. A minister learned? When's the highest. Will a minister ever show interest in learning something from this matter? If we let go of all the politics and ask what kind of person or minister we want. How should we want a minister of justice who does not learn from mistakes that do not admit to a fault shared with the judge? A minister who apparently doesn't learn anything and, apparently, feels superior. It's not just about some legal thing. This is about whether we want a suitable minister of justice in this country or not, because this is the highest court. Minister of justice is simply not qualified for the task.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u27	Madam President. I have listened to the discussion, and I must agree with those who point out that here there are members of different categories of this matter from a very different perspective. This is where we spoke. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason of the people said that this matter was about the government, that she had not done enough for the elderly and the desperate, so it would be important to support this distrustful arrangement at the highest level. Minister of Justice. V.E.G. At one time, a minister of justice was accused of treachery toward his team of fellow workers, in fact another. Councilmen, as described here, were mistrusted at the highest level. Healthcare Minister for an incident involving two elections. Clearly, then, there is no problem. Senators are approaching the matter from all angles. It may be interesting in itself to experience this contrasting vision, which comes as no surprise to me after serving at the council during this election period. The result of this is that the government has agreed that this is an impossible government. It's not surprising to me, and they have a different view of it. [[Up front.]] I'll take this to myself, okay? Senator. However, I find it remarkable when it is said here by reason of the wind. Congress says I didn't understand this case at the time, when it's said I didn't. In the past, the prime minister did not realize the matter. Wait a minute. People who thus claim to read the committee opinion I recommended back then. The point in my speech was that I agree with the Supreme Court decision. However, I do not believe that because of what I went through earlier, the minister's orders are to resign or that I support the minister's mistrust in the case of his court, that there are eatable regulations that are the policy of the administrative court. In view of the evidence presented here on trial, it is not enough to support a lack of confidence in the current minister, and that I have said - I'm going to allow myself to speak because I don't think they'll add to the respect of the General Minister, this frontal call. Senators, who I'm not very into myself - I'm not much of it myself, either during this term or for anyone else. Senator. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I believe the proposed proposal will not benefit anything, as indicated in my speech, in destroying the rights. Nor do I feel that this suggestion is not most useful in learning from the case. In particular, this question was asked: What should we learn from this? To form a revised law on the order of judges. That's what I've said. That's important. Hv. Though it may seem that much to those members of the council, if they read the court decisions on this subject, I think they must agree with that assessment. That's all I have to say about this for a time, but I restate on what was presented here, that I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u28	The president encourages you. Congress officials take into account what is in the platform and keep a sound in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u29	V.E.G. President. It seems to me that in this discussion it is a burden to all of us, it is not light to anyone, and I really hope it is. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson farm was not referring to what he saw here when he pointed out that some senators were here on a personal vendetta against the current highest standard. Minister of Justice. I just hope so. Most of all, I thought I was listening to what I heard. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney, the daughter of Magnúsdóttir, who washed his hands and VG of the Minister of Justice more eagerly than I have heard and since the time when old Pílatus washed his hands long ago from other events. I have to say, this lawsuit is what it is. A senator made me realize how uncomfortable this matter is for members of the VG. They were completely opposed to the court case. A minister of last year's damage is done, so we're just scratching over to show. This is also true of cats who are in a sandbox; they scratch over what they leave because the damage is done. And who's going to be stuck with the damage? Yeah, we're supposed to learn, we said why. Senator. V.E.G. The prime minister repeated it, and again I ask, " What are we going to do, and what should we learn? ' Who Should Learn? As I'm saying, I understand that the members of the VG are not comfortable with this matter. I understand how they feel about their position, but as I said before, we don't know and can't understand today how this will affect the way the National Court is appointed today. We may find that in three years or so, and the damage is certainly done, but it will not be as easy as it will be. He's going to be very heavy, and it's true to say he's completely annoying if the justice system in Iceland is not going to be overdated for the next three years. I can't think that through. Hence, one must ask: What is needed in order for an Icelandic minister to resign? I asked the highest. The minister of this question at a meeting the other day, and after any Japanese, she said: "If he commits a crime against the law of justice. I thought to myself, " All right, should we skip the tax laws, traffic laws, equality laws that some minister once called a child, and one of the prime ministers? ' So, why don't we just take a look at the whole law code and Iceland's song collection like a buffet, and if a minister just breaks the table, he's okay, but if he breaks in another place, he should be removed? I can't accept this presentation, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u30	A respectable president. It's been interesting to listen to this discussion today. They have come from many sources, as others have mentioned. I have been amazed to hear a little free of truth and facts in view of the fact that I was serving on a administrative and surveillance committee with some of the people who have spoken here, also in view of the fact that following this discussion at the council, supporters and representatives of the last government came forward to form a sharp circle. Councilmen of the Residents, claiming to have prevented the appointment of the judicial committee from being submitted. They then have no idea that they are responsible for any proposal from the highest level. The minister of it. Some or springs that were more considerate of gender, which I agreed on as a reasonable, good suggestion. There's also been a misjudgment, men to make up the subject of alleged trial, but the solution proposed here is not going to solve it. In some way, it is placed in a pot, a vulture, and the discussion will be quite vague as to where the council is, in fact, directing this distrustal arrangement and why. I'm excited to have my vote. I have not changed my mind about listening to the discussion here today. I refer back to the discussion that we discussed last summer, the committee opinion that I wrote on, and the discussions and opinions that were held by those in the council. I will not support this distrustable arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u31	Mr. President. This discussion has revealed much. To be honest, I have to admit that I didn't think so. First of all, I have to say that I feel very uncomfortable to listen to the actual outright threats from the executives of this country. I felt that this was the case with the legislature of the legislature, this right of ours to propose this proposal, and to discuss seriously the proposed proposal. [[Up front.]] I don't think so. It's actually turned things upside down. When I'm at the highest. The minister of justice has begun to hide behind equality and gender proportions, and the cow's head has become strange. But you're absolutely right. A minister of transportation says: At the restoration, we made a clear suggestion that the minister of justice would take his decision into account gender issues. But we weren't telling her to break the law. She was simply to do her homework in this regard. What's so dangerous about this is that we're not informed. It'll be the highest. A secretary of transportation who is responsible for much in the past in this council hall to listen to. We were not informed, not government, nor was our legal authority enlightened, which, of course, is even more difficult and worse. It's simple, in my opinion, what's been presented here. This is clear. The minister did not heed counsel. An agent says so too. For those who have not read it, that is clear. One agent says: "The minister did not listen to advice, did not heed counsel. But what surprises me here after this discussion, including half the world's highest. Minister of Justice, it is stated in the opinion of the U.S. Marshal that in reply to the Supreme Court. A minister if he hasn't sought counseling outside the Board of Directors. He says it's clear here. But what did the minister say earlier? To the highest. A minister would have sought counseling inside and outside the Ministry? It immediately conflicts with the opinion and letter of a minister to the general agent and then to what is said here in this chair. I call, once and again, that this process will be reviewed, and the work done will be carefully planned. This is about, as I mentioned earlier, about this fundamental prince of the Icelandic government, the construction of the legislature, the implementation of the Minister, the state of transparency and trust and credibility at the foundation of Icelandic society. This is precisely the case with the administration, the legal authority, and the judicial authority, so we need to be careful when it comes to this. But, in my opinion, this discussion has made the matter very clear. Our attitude in the area of restoration is also at hand. We'll say yes to distrust below.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u32	Mr. President. We'll vote on the mistrust of a minister who violated a national order. Twice comes the highest. The prime minister up here tries to mislead the discussion, saying that it is of no importance because it is being discussed with a judge in the judicial system. It's right next to the highest. Prime Minister. No matter how white -washed an angel would appear at Valhalla and be assigned to sit in the court of the minister of Justice, that would not change the subject under consideration. But we need to deal with the consequences of what the minister did. We need to fight the disease, not the symptoms.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u33	President. The respect for the office is no more. V.E.G. Last year, a minister of justice made it a point to replace judges that she did not approve of with whom she felt comfortable. It distributed men, such as Haraldsson and Jóhannes John Jóhannesson, to others who were politically acceptable. Let's just get this straight. Is this not just so that the political views of Ástráður Council were not acceptable to a minister and could not be accepted? So the minister ignored all counseling, drove the road himself, and threw out the counseling. This is mine, I'm here for the minister, and on this journey, both the main lights have gone, the front lights are gone, the fronts are gone, the brakes are broken, and the brakes are broken, and everything is at the bottom of the top gear. The warning signs are long gone from the rearview mirror, the minister is at high speed running over a burning bridge, and it has the Icelandic judgment system tied to the passenger seat. President. That's good, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u34	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister of Sigríður Andersen has repeatedly shown that it is not worthy of trust and must therefore be removed. We do not give up confidence in the system because of our personal ambitions to cling to the chair. The ambitions of individual political parties to government are far less valuable than the interests that all of us can rightly trust one another. Therefore, ministers will resign from such conduct that we have been discussing here so that personal distrust of them will not cross over to all. It is to shoulder responsibility. That is what we now vote for, for a civilized society in which the general council members protect public interest or community of special interest and cohesion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u35	V.E.G. President. I think there is good reason to object to the comments that have been presented here that the ultimate proposal was given to an indistinguishable view. Minister of Justice last spring. This has been made clear, and it cannot be refuted in any way because of the proposal of a justice minister and the change she made from a judicial hearing based on viewpoints relating to judicial experience, which is irrefutable when considering the evidence available. But I wanted to use this opportunity to challenge it. Councilmen taking sides according to their best convictions and not by line lines. I think it's important because, in this case, the Minister of Justice has offered sound reasons for his case. The Minister of Justice has put the cards on the table and been prepared to converse with the council at any time or anywhere on these subjects. I think we can take a stand on these terms. We should not view this as a game of some political fox. Rather, we should take our stand on the proposal from the minister and the application, since it has made clear and good and helps us to understand its stand and logic. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u36	A respectable president. I don't think it's a good idea to have to go to that vote. A minister with dignity would have resigned long ago in every community where political responsibility is something other than a badjoke as it is in Iceland, unfortunately. There was more time. It was shown a willingness to do the right thing. V.E.G. Minister and chief. A government back then was offered a way to do this right. It was refused. No one would want to part the General Assembly on behalf of the National Court or the order of a judge to the National Court. Nobody wanted to. This could have been avoided if there were just a little dignity and a sense of responsibility in Icelandic politics, which is sadly not. But to the minister of this matter. Do we want a minister who ignores expert warning when ordering a new court order, a little big? Do we want ministers who reject solutions from the memory to do things right? Do we want a minister who is equal if the Allied is split over a new court order, can't admit a mistake, but continues to argue with the judge, the Supreme Court itself, always assumes that he is responsible but still claims to be shouldered, is not going to make any changes in his own way? [[The president calls.]] Is it possible for them to make financial decisions? No. What kind of ministers are responsible for? No. [[The president calls.]] Does this minister learn from experience? No. V.E.G. Minister's not qualified. [[The president calls.]] That alone is reason enough to say yes to today's suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u37	Mr. President. In conglomerate governments, each class is responsible for its minister's orders, but by working together generally, the other groups describe the support of one another, and this is really essential to the cooperation. The left green did not agree with the national rights order during the last term but still decided to form a government with a forwarding party and an independent party after election. That's the decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u38	Mr. President. I just want to start by saying there's a lot of good advisers in this government. This government can do a lot of good things and has done well, health minister, minister of education, prime minister with many good things, financial ministers - there are many good things too, but perhaps some things are questionable, too, that need to be considered. This government can do a lot of good things. She is conservative, and there may not be much changes in things, except for hope in health care if we receive medical policies. There are many good things this government has started and could do. Therefore, it is so sad to have a minister of judicial matters who has betrayed everyone in the process of order in the National Court. Watch that it was independents who even went. Start by creating a land right to strengthen the legal system. Their ministers, members of Parliaments, and those appointed in the administrations worked professionally to initiate and legal action. In the final record, it was ruined because there is now a measure of conviction as to whether these judges are proselytical ministers. The minister breaks the law with this, and for a lesser reason, the Court of Human Rights could judge all of the court's judgments. [[The president calls.]] The tragedy of the situation and that of a minister should, of course, have long ago been a failure so that all of us in the community can start working on something upbuilding.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u39	A respectable president. This has been an interesting discussion here today. There have been many different opinions as to why the proposal should be accepted or not. For those who wish to accept the proposal, it is clear that if a minister's judgment is against him, there should always be distrust over being deceived. It is, in fact, the most amazing presentation of all the things I've heard in my life, that here, some of the rulers and members of the Parliament, in their final term, were deceived or kept away from them. It even lay. the opinion of the committee agrees with the experts who feel that they have been held away from the discussion here at the council. Therefore, it is with great wonder that the same people who supported the minister's proposal have heard all the views that laid the conclusions of the Supreme Court to the foundation here at the council Hall of the committees, arise and claim to support the proposal of distrust on the same minister. It's the most amazing thing in the world. It's kind of a low point in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u40	A respectable president. We've seen a lot of things here. saying, "The damage has been done." I feel a little bit like I'm looking at a bull in a porcelain camp that's been running all over and breaking everything, but what we're gonna do is bring in more china, that's the lesson clearly from this here, instead of pulling the cattle out. A little interesting. It has also been said that they are taking responsibility. Again, I ask, "What is taking on responsibility? ' Seriously, I'm asking. That is evident from the Greek word translated "woe. " paritaprevir The Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir says that the Independence Party will complete the administrative arrangements if the mistrust will be approved. There I ask members of Congress to weigh the importance of trust or cooperation. They are being hanged in various types of food, an ecstatic order. In fact, we see it in all this process here that during the last term, more part was wrong. The Supreme Court's sentence confirmed this. The circumstances and data we can see were that the council did not get all the information. It happened that more things were wrong. Will he be wrong again?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u41	Mr. President. It is obvious to all outside members of the administration body that the minister of justice is being trusted. 72% of the nation wants it from a high historical number. The minister has broken the law of the Supreme Court. The minister has created tens of millions of damages required by taxpayers to pay off their own pockets because of the intentional failure of the minister. In fact, the minister has compromised the rights of thousands of Icelanders in view of the fact that a two - to - three - year sentence may be unmarked by an international court. This minister serves at the shelter of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and members of the council are left green primarily. That's sad. You're defending a very evil cause and you know it. About 92% of the voters left green people know that they also want the minister to shoulder responsibility and leave. Right now you were losing your juvenile movement in this case, Mr. President: Really, the fate of the left green has become sad in this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u42	Mr. President. Everyone in this body of council knows that the list of qualifications had not remained unchanged through the council. He wouldn't have been approved. In this matter, it is fundamental to bear in mind that the Supreme Court has confirmed that a minister of justice was entitled to make changes in judicial matters. The Minister of Justice has said that she made sure that her field service as she thought was proper. Minister of Justice is an experienced and successful attorney. There is no need to argue that she was there in good faith and that the minister's decision was based on intention or purpose. This is a key difference. It may be learned from the judgments that explain the established legislation that takes place on a regular basis but that the Supreme Court's assessment that a minister could better handle his research duties is an excuse for presenting a mistrustworthy possibility in a political game that does little to increase the respect of the Council, unless less so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u43	Mr. President. The Minister of Justice tells us in the opposition to government something is wrong with the tribunals of the state. The same talk describes the highest. So, in the middle of the U.S. Supreme Court of Justice, a minister of law has followed the letter completely at the order of judges in a new court of law, the National Court. President. It is the minister himself who has misunderstood the tribunal system of government when she claims to be a better judge on her own than the Supreme Court. Actually, it's going on the highest. Minister for step forward, let go. Congress officials know that their votes will be remembered for a long time. I want to pray to the highest. The Minister of Justice to respect the trilocation of the government and not to threaten the legal authorities when they perform legal follow-up with the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u44	Mr. President. More than a month ago, a British minister arrived late in question class and missed a question addressed to him. The minister then asked for the word, declaring that he had become himself and his office ashamed of him and that he would immediately redeem them. This was an extremely small point to resign, and the account was rejected, an outstanding example of a man who puts respect for his office above his personal ambition. It is hard to imagine how ministers in other countries would react if they were judged by the highest court in the United States for a totally irreversible violation of law. All of us, however, can give evidence that the reaction would be anything but a haughty spirit of power and a desire to respond. We have traced this issue very closely, we have confirmed that this was a conscious decision by the Minister of Justice to violate the law. The Senate is now taking a stand. If our real goal is to increase the respect of the Allegorium, then the key is that we have enough respect for ourselves to say, "When people take their power and authority seriously, they do not have enough respect for their office to stop themselves. " [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u45	President. It's not a game in some political fox. It just leaves bad taste in the mouth as to what was done to this court order. Whether the suspicion is valid or not, it leads to suspicion and doubts about integrity - keeping ministers. It doesn't matter. There's suspicion. There is a lack of confidence. That's the problem. Justice minister is responsible for this, her decision was her, and now she has to face the consequences of her decisions, as well as all of us. Or are we going to cover it? Will we shield her from having to take responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u46	A respectable president. We've heard a minister persisting in the matter, complaining that it is not always given the same speech on the part of the government opposers. I hope ministers respect me for this to our comfort, even though I still give a new speech. It seems sometimes in this country that there is some kind of qualification of the state, i.e. legislators, jurists, executives and platoons. People who get to power through the Independence Party sometimes work as if they have a greater authority than other elected agents. To me, this vote for this alleged right to independence is a matter of whether we agree that the ministers of that party have greater emotional authority than other elected agents.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u47	A respectable president. I think all of us senators, especially stewards, would do well to show a measure of humility in our individual responsibilities and duties. I'm sorry to the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The minister of justice has chosen another course in this regard and, in fact, to listen to threats to the world's council and to the threats to the highest degree. The minister of finance has found himself in connection with the arrival of members of the Parliament on this matter. It is true that we have voted with the proposal of a justice minister in our time. We had serious doubts in our discussion about the matter, that it had not been well studied, but we eventually chose to trust a minister against the repeated claims that the matter will be carefully prepared. In this discussion, in the handling of courts and the judgment of the Supreme Court, it is seen that no expert can be referred to as having supported the proposal of a minister other than the intellectual minister of self and her expertise. [[Up front.]] That is a sobering thought. This underscores the fact that we have made mistakes with the support of the case in our day. We're not going to repeat that mistake here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u48	A respectable president. A general assembly, not controlled by the power, but by the intelligence, wrote philosopher Ólafur Páll Jónsson in an article in 2009. In my panel of administrations and monitoring committees on the order of the Court of Justice in the United States, by permission of Presidents: Of course, if we meditate on the role of the General Assembly, it is our duty to ensure that the public can have confidence in the Council as an institution, as if the public can trust in the courts, the executives, certain institutions that the public must be able to trust in being righteous, for that is the basis of our community structure. It also shows that studies were not given, protest was not respected, and that there is a fundamental issue in the order of a new court, which is given an important role in the judicial system, and a turning point in the court history of the court, and the need for the order of a judge to rule over all doubt. For this, write to the current highest. Prime Minister and secretary of transportation and unit administration. There is no doubt that the Minister of Justice violated law and did not inform the Congress of expert opinion against her decision. Her disrespect for the council is absolute.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u49	A respectable president. At least one mistake has been recognized today, and they were trusting the highest. Minister of Justice in its time. More than one was mentioned earlier. It was about the government and the government community. I'm just saying, "No." That's why this proposal is about the highest. Minister of Justice, but not the entire government, hopefully explaining the wonder. Secretary of the budget says there's a proposal here for one specific minister. Because there's one specific minister involved. I hope that explains the matter. I can say to myself, " I am most pleased with various ministers here. ' I really like what you're doing. paritaprevir Jakobsdóttir Jacobddóttir is an honorary prime minister. I really like what you're doing. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir is the highest health minister, I think it's a real joy, I'm very happy about it, and I'm looking forward to working with them in the future. But march at the highest. Minister of Justice is not okay, and we should not act as though it is in order. I'd like to pray. Congress officials imagine that one second, or a few seconds, they are in a position to look up at this, as well as to consider the matter from that point of view, just for fun, though I doubt that it is a very interesting experience before a dog. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u50	Mr. President. Clearly, some have the highest. Ministers choose to sit in their seats and not listen to what is said. I think it's pretty weird at the highest. Secretary of finance to arrange for some perspective to appear before the committee to the views that come from the highest level. The Minister of Justice and that a man could believe in his advisors at the Ministry, which are the main experts in the case. There's no difference, topv. Secretary of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u51	...a conversation?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u52	No, I'm looking at you, I'm not having a conversation with you. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I say, don't you understand the difference between putting your trust - which fails - on a ministerial servant who makes the jury? You know he's got an expert at the Ministry. He chooses not to listen to it. [[The president calls.]] Can't you see the difference?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u53	The president reminds the senators not to speak to other members of Congress or Ministers in the 2nd person.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u54	Mr. President. It was revealed in Gallup's national pulse, was in the news today, how trust has grown or collapsed in society for the past year, and knowing men, trust in the Council has rose. I'm not surprised. I'm just not surprised that I've had confidence in the Council. The General has been doing his follow-up with the Commission. That's exactly what the people want. That is what the people of the country want, and we've had plenty of time to do it, and we've been taking good care of it. This is part of our surveillance role with the executives and we will continue to do exactly that. It is our legal duty and we will continue to do so. I think this will increase confidence in the Council. This will not increase confidence in the government. This will not increase confidence in those persons who have failed in the present legal minister, justice system, law enforcement, this will not increase their confidence. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This will increase confidence in the Council because we are doing our legal job, monitoring the European Commission for the people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u55	A respectable president. Of course, I support this lack of trust and believe that all members of Congress should seriously consider supporting this defective arrangement as well. It has been suggested that the matter is very extensive and serious. Its effect, of course, is immediate, but it can be restored to the corrective steps that need to be taken. It would be very unnatural for the person who ran and broke everything then to fix it himself. Clearly, such a minister cannot be trusted to correct what he broke. I encourage ministers and senators to support this distrustal arrangement and to consider their convictions as members of the Parliament, their role in the conduct of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u56	Mr. President. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice has made official transfers and unacceptable interpretations to prevent confidence in the courts of the country and in the same way minimizes the overall legislative and surveillance role, which is a point that the present government placed on at the beginning of its priorities that would be brought to a better end. V.E.G. The minister of justice has lost confidence in this challenging and important office. So in the republican season, I say yes to an unreceptive proposal for distrust.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u57	President. The actions and behavior of a justice minister are a manifestation of the corruption that has been exposed to grassing and poisoning for far too long. This has to stop. From the talks of members of the WG, they agree that a minister has committed a crime. ▪ The piece is done, and they say, "What's up?" paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. It is important that a minister who admits in an interview that judges may be indebted to him is removed from position of authority. How amazing it is to listen to justification for what is bad! A senator's left green - but it's not supposed to be an act. No one is to be held accountable. We're just supposed to put our binoculars to the blind eye and move on. So? So we can continue to cooperate with a minister who covers up and turns out with pride and abuse of power? No, thank you. I second that suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u58	President. I did not expect any special humility in our discussion of the highest degree today. Minister of Justice, but I have to admit that I did not have an idea that a body of Congress was threatened. It has not been easy to sit under the mistrust of a minister for the office that was in the state I supported, due to an office I supported. Since then, light has been shed on certain aspects of communication. Ministers and Generals and its severity repeated in the new letter of emissary IIis. V.E.G. Minister failed the trust of the Generals, failing his duty. He did not stand up to trust, and I say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u59	Mr. President. The damage is done, said what. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. To her as well as to other members of the hall, I say, "Let's try to prevent further damage. " The damage is done. The damage will be more the way we allow it to go on longer. No, my dear members of the left movement, this is not distrustful of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Then her distrust would have been directed. It's a mistrust at the highest. Minister of Justice Sigríður Á. Andersen for her office. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u60	A respectable president. It was a great philosopher who lived, apparently, sometime named Joshua Joshua-bar-Joseph, known as Jesús Kristur. He put great emphasis on forgiveness and understanding, tolerance, and so on. I am a great admirer of this man and his wisdom, contrary to what many count. That is a prerequisite for that, i.e. that people understand what they do wrong, that people show repentance, and that they try to make things right or at least behave differently in the future. If any of such efforts were to be kept from the highest level. Minister of Justice, I am not sure that this proposal would have been made. That's the big deal. The Minister of Justice has said to every single step: then I'm going to do this, I don't care what you think. She has no regard for the consequences. It doesn't seem to matter how far the case goes. Somehow, it is always the most important thing that this particular person will be in this particular seat. It's always on the main focus here in Iceland, apparently, because in Iceland we don't make a distinction between status and individual. This is where we do it. That's why we're suggesting that we go to the highest. The Minister of Justice will take place in order to replace him with someone qualified.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u61	A respectable president. Yes, it is quite sad to be here for this purpose, but the fact is that we have called for change, and we have called for a better government order. We've been calling for responsibility. That is exactly what the woman here says. I want to see responsibility, and if we're officers at the Commission or wherever else there is any evidence that I have broken a law, I feel totally obliged to assume responsibility. We would like to compare ourselves with the countries around us. We see that it only has to use the wrong reference cards when you buy diapers, so you have to resign. I also say how sad it is to hear the actual underlying threats at the highest level. The minister of justice when the authority to handle his responsibility and to submit to the role it is given to do so. - The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u62	Mr. President. I don't think this government will fall, although it will be approved here today that the Minister of Justice has to be removed. I don't think so. I don't think the Independence Party is interested in that, not the forward party, not the left green. They'll stick together. In fact, no one trusts this minister of justice, not seriously, not to hide information and cheat and take his own interests and sit fast, no matter what the government requires. This minister of justice will be dismissed. The interests of the party must be determined when a minister of justice has ruined all the long careers that the pack, the Independence Party, has been doing professionally. I'm sure everyone's gonna be real happy because we can start working professionally. The government will think so, so I hope there are two senators who decide to vote with distrust. The independent party will just have to go back and say, "Hey, we'll do it better." We keep doing this, we have to pick another one. This government will not fail. This lack of confidence is in the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u63	I guess the Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u64	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u65	A respectable president. This form of distrust is about decisions and positions in the past government, the government of the Independence Party, the bright future, and the restoration. Unlike shock, I was opposed to those decisions and actions. The members of the Independence Party, the bright future, and the restoration of them. On the other hand, I support the government of Katrín's daughter, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, and my conviction is that she is and that she will prosper in the land. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u66	Mr. President. The level of discrimination that was supposed to be so extenuating for Icelandic rights is in an upset position due to the highest level of office. Minister of Justice. National rights have a problem with distrust and lack of credibility. It could be that way for years without intervention. I trust the highest. The Minister of Justice is not to care for these reins, which is why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u67	Mr. President. Instead of rejoicing over the breakthroughs in Icelandic legal history involving the order of 15 new judges during a brand - new period of judgment, they have made a turning point in suspicion and distrust. At the historic milestone, the minister of judicial cases, alone and unsatisfactory, decided to administer the order of a new judge with suspicion and distrust. It is facing everyone, also the highest court of Iceland, the Supreme Court, who confirmed it with their clear judgment on the order of December. Trust in governments is not earned by forming groups of work. Government trust is won by fairness and respect and honest practice, not by practices that weaken the system of justice or the whole system of justice, or by attracting the attention of international bison if it robs us of our common funds. Trust must be won by works rather than by harembling political acts that no one is responsible for. Here, the minister of justice in the land must bear political responsibility for his duties. She has not done so despite the need for applying principles in Icelandic administrative laws, such as other ministers. That's why I support this distrustary arrangement because I don't want rottenness and I don't want the tree to do business. I want a new job.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u68	A respectable president. There is little need for a proposal for mistrust in individual ministers. In the first place, a lack of trust would have been better to propose a suggestion for trust in the entire government, especially in the light of the fact that other ministers should not be replaced by the minister involved. But I have not taken part in defending this government, nor have I taken neutrality from it. So, the nature of a matter, I support the offer of distrust of the government or its minister. I'm not going to be accepting the motion for transport, but I don't trust this government. On that basis and on that basis alone, I support proposals for mistrust in her minister, and hence the whole government, her creation, her practices, and her policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u69	The Senator says yes?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u71	Mr. President. I'm very sorry that we have to take this discussion. I would have liked to get through a Senate career without having to go through a mistrust talk, but it is true that the Minister of Justice has embarrassed his office. And the minister's right, and it may be the only right thing to do in her lawsuit, that after that vote it will be remembered. I spoke before about the office we have, and I have to say: I have enough respect for my office here at the council to say yes to this proposal because it is not acceptable for ministers to break themselves deliberately, repent of nothing, and get away with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u72	Mr. President. I stand here and explain my vote because I think it's the right thing to do. I'm sorry that there are no more executives in this pit and explain their votes and explain why they trusted these Ministers. Let me quote the words of the highest. Prime Minister on the grounds of the last prime minister's talk, as she said, by permission of the president: ▪ Officials must never refer to a dominant system to support a waiting period of righteousness. Politicians need to be prepared to make constant use of justice and to change the system if necessary. Otherwise, people's trust in democratic society is a threat, and that responsibility is something that all of us must shoulder. Hv. Senators. I urge you to use it for justice. I urge you to change the system and replace the Minister of Justice, who does not have trust and replace it with someone else. In that way, all of us must fight for righteousness as individuals, and all of us must shoulder that responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u73	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u74	The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u75	V.E.G. President. I've sat and listened to reason and even fallacy, and I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u76	Mr. President. The words of the young green left well grasp the subject, with the permission of the president: It is unacceptable that Sigríður should serve in the office of Minister of Justice after violating a court order for a judge in the court of the land, where it was included in the list of selection committees without having sound support. Minister of Justice violated laws designed to prevent corruption from walking in the order of judges. It is hard to believe that in spite of a court order of law against law, working in a democracies community has brought no consequences. If such a law has no effect, the Icelandic judgment system is not equipped to deal with corruption. In view of this, it is only natural for Sigríður Á. Andersen to depart from the council and to appoint a new justice minister. It is also an important part of increasing the confidence of the public at the Council. Mr. President. Dodging is more important than words. Mr. President. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u77	A respectable president. Some would like to say that morals and right conduct do not take much part in politics. I don't agree with that. This attitude was one of the reasons why I did not support the government of a left green, independent group, and then a forward movement. At that time, I felt that there were plenty of examples of cases that showed that the team could not be trusted. There I referred specifically to the independence party's progress in matters that were linked to a firm, hard - pressed position of the sect in foreign affairs and finally to a court order of judges in the land. In November, the land was a bad case, but then it's gotten worse and worse. The secretary has shown that it is not worthy of trust. Work does not promote ministers, and the public cannot be sure that there is a means to secure independent courts. My attitude is simple. I do not support the continuation of the legal hearing for the government. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u78	A respectable president. I have every confidence in the highest. Minister of Justice Sigríður á Andersen. It was quite clear, as discussed in the discussions, that there was no greater share for the same list of qualifications. I believe a minister's reaction correctly, how she researched the matter, how she brought in a new list after considering the case in her own way, and brought him into the council, where the council agreed to her proposal. There are many things that have happened during the discussion today, but there is one thing I'm not going to let go. It is the lowest thing to witness to the words of a dead minister and a senator, use them, and turn them in their own way to back up their case. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u79	A respectable president. I'm against this government. I'm her opponent. It is of little work, however, which is within the reach of much of the proposed issues. There I can mention that empty talk of improved work done at the beginning of the terms of the election has brought nothing to be done, the payment of tax reforms, the impossible in all places, the Arion Bank case, where men are concerned with the extraordinary interests of the state, and the superiority and arrogance of being involved in the hospital and its location, which is of great importance to all who come. But today we're not voting on it. We're paying a vote on the distrust of one particular minister, on a highly estimating point in which it is established whether it has adequately informed on certain aspects of the procedure. I believe there have been a number of cases in recent years and terms that may require a proposal for mistrust in a certain minister, but this is not one of them, in my opinion. But the reason I'm not on the red button is because I'm an opponent of this government. She's bad. It's bad for Icelandic interests. As a result, they are ministers who are part of it. So I will not vote for this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-06-35.u80	Mr. President. Left green led the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir in the government knowing that the Supreme Court could confirm the decision of the province. There have been many reports on our part. Nine senators of the left green assess it, so that government cooperation will depend on a lack of trust. We'd think of it that way if the case was against us, another is the simplicity of the political bitch, as I think. I'm happy with this government team. I do not want to give up the fine leadership of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, for I sincerely believe that we will pass many good things through the council, for we are about to begin our journey.
