ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u1	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the council would expect without protests, but not far into the evening. The rest of the day's program will then move to the schedule for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u2	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 235, for a remote satellite route plan, from a Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u3	Mr. President. I'd like to draw attention to an article Þuríður "Harpa Sigurðardóttir, president of the United States, in the News News magazine, where she's concerned that maybe the National Medical Insurance Convention should be issued by a physical therapist. I cannot help but agree with the concern of the Chairman of the United States, and especially the fact that there is an upset person's access to physical therapy, just when some error was introduced by a contract last year that allowed people to go to physical therapy, people who previously could not handle it because of expenses. At last, individuals who have to use physical training with this framework deal will be met by a large number of people who finally have the opportunity to obtain the condition of the currency. That's why we're considering canceling the deal. I'm glad to have a report on Iceland's Medical Insurance Research after a time of need, but now clearly necessary. The path to go must be clear. Regardless of the economy, individuals are to be able to rely on medical services. It is surprising that access to a service useful to many is limited, and there is nothing normal about this lack of policy. It is not normal to give one day and then reduce the next. No one should have to live with this aimless approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm going to make sure that what I've been talking about has been going on for a long time. It is the trust of the council, the trust of the council, the trust of the politicians that seems to go down with every poll, even though we are on top of the town. The question is always: What is the reason, and what can be done? Prime Minister appointed a committee to try to improve the situation and increase confidence in the council. I have serious doubts about such benefits as long as we personally have a very unspoken attitude toward one another. We have a lot of blundering, some of us, about the amateurs, about the corruption of the others, and even the criminal activity of the others. This sort of presentation will probably not increase public confidence in the council. Here, trust is actually being undermined. It is as if many people believe that this compromise and that there is benefit in creating this resolution. But this is not to be beneficial. Some do not limit the trust of the council by saying such things. Rather, they even attack the government with accusations of willingness and lawlessness. A fine example is a recent debate on arms transport, in which officials insist that officials have not followed the law. Of course, the press always chases it, even adds to all the nonsense, and then gives each other the prize. I don't think that we'll ever create any trust or increase it unless we have the grammatical criticism, logical criticism, and then join ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u5	A respectable president. I'm here to discuss a real estate job. The reason I'm discussing this is in the Morning Press, where the headline was: The demand is very overrated. So the question is, is it? Ari Skúlason, economist of the Lands Bank, has, in fact, been involved. Talk about the need to be carefully evaluated, since we also do not want to encourage overexploitation in the market as it was. after the crash. The analysis of the apartment loan fund refers to a collection of 6,000 apartments and to the next year's collections requiring, at least, 9,000 apartments. We discussed this report on the economics of the Substitution Fund here in the beginning of February in a special discussion. I made these comments in my discussion that I had doubts about this great need or the need mentioned there. Now I am not going to belittle the fact that it is and has been a permanent lack of apartment housing in recent years. However, many apartments have been entering the market here in the capital area, and the whole country had 1,800 new apartments last year. In fact, most of them were in Mosfellsville or 400 apartments. At the same time as I think it is important that we all work at one thing trying to balance the construction market, in a market that over the years has been highly swinging with great and bad influence for all of us, I encourage rural society to ensure enough land supply in the years ahead. At the same time, it is important that the figures published by government, on the need for the next few years, be realistic and trustworthy. We need to realize that the increase in apartments requires considerable investments on the part of the government, both rural and state. It is then necessary to establish the transport situation here in the capital area. But it is absolutely necessary to ensure a complete and realistic solution to solve today's problems and what happens when the population of the area grows by about 40,000 in the next few years. Then I must remind myself of my request for special discussions at the highest level. Transporter on transport here in the capital area. I hope that my request is fulfilled soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u6	A respectable president. I would very much like to discuss the reasoning that was presented in the discussion of a distrustal problem yesterday. I'd like, for example. Knowing why it is impossible to accept distrust of the minister of justice because this government will do so many good works and why the work of government will end if mistrust is accepted. The only explanation I can see is that the Independence Party threatened to break off the partnership if the mistrust had been approved. Thus, the groups of fellow workers submitted to the threat that they could not do all the good things they did. So it is said that these good works will not be done unless the Independence Party is in control. This includes judgment on other parties, which I am not prepared to submit to. But I do have to discuss my business with the Presidency Committee. Recently, the committee has a legal opinion that deals with my legal affairs. It is considered wrong to me in so many ways, as goes and happens when translated from one language to another. The objective of this procedure is to examine the remuneration that the head of the body of the body of the office reports in the press that it has not been examined, that the Committee evaluates whether any remuneration may be a violation of legal requirements requiring a ruling by governmental authorities or courts. It is necessary for the committee to address their qualifications in order to evaluate their own reimbursement because they may be responsible for members of the committee itself. Therefore, I would like to direct it to the president to listen to the subject but not to a narrow legal reversal because if the verse is dismissed because of the translation into law, I have to send something else and other until the translation is finally correct. You are not supposed to have to be legalistic to send a message to the committee. The president can save the council and the Presidency Committee of Eternity by not setting up narrow - minded legal glasses to escape the responsibility of caring for the supervision of the prime committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u7	A respectable president. I want to take advantage of this opportunity to be a little more familiar with the activities of organized crime groups here. During the discussion the other day, there were some things you could not say. Police estimate is that there are organized groups of offenders in this country, many of whom have foreign connections and are increasing their strength. I've mentioned this in the public address that the state police Intelligence Department considers the risk level to be high. I'm going to take a closer look at the crime group where there is a high level of organized violations and the following police assessment and a state police investigation report. People are smuggling, mansal. It is suspected that foreign smuggling rings have Iceland as their destination. There is evidence that land is abused by the receivers, and there is information on the organized transport of people from secure states, and suspicions have also aroused about human trafficking and smuggling. Winged. Police evidence suggests that organized prostitution has increased dramatically in recent years, talking to the police about an explosion in this regard. Part of that activity is linked to foreign organized crime groups. Drugs. Their supply of drugs and strengths has increased, claiming that drug abuse has never been further in Iceland. Police believe that organized crime is the most evident thing in the import, production, distribution, and sale of drugs and the object of a foreign citizen there. There is a large increase in the import of cocaine, which is the clearest example of the increasing activity of organized fracture groups in Iceland and their international connections. It's a capital offense. Organized thefts and burglaries are a part of economic violations, but in these cases foreign crime groups, some of which are highly specialized. I've only been very close to a large police report. But what can be done? Police call for more manpower to do initiative work, which they consider key to halting the growing activities of organized crime groups. Police are calling for increased force to carry out public and visible law enforcement. The police have also called for an increase in the security of law enforcement officers in terms of fewer cases on their own, especially in the country, as well as a greater need for assistance than at present. [[The president calls.]] Let us unite in answering this call for police action, not inactivity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u8	Mr. President. I will soon respond to a viewpoint presented in a talk. paritaprevir The earlier Levite Leví of Gunnarsson's Björn was about some of the different attitudes of those who voted against the mistrust of the Minister of Justice that was discussed here yesterday. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that when a mistrust proposal is presented at the council, people can support the proposal on different terms, as shown in the debates at the council. Some did so on the grounds that they were paying a vote on the office of this Minister of Justice while others simply said, or on them was to understand, that they did not have much of the office of Minister of Justice to appoint but would use the opportunity to kick the government. This was shown by some who supported the distrust proposal. In the same way, a vote against the mistrust proposals was adopted on various grounds, as shown in the discussions and have full authority to do so. I wanted to make this clear on the basis of these comments. Senator. I also struck after the latter part of his talk, as he was discussing his change of letters to the Council's Presidency Committee. I simply wanted to state that when it comes to making a decision by the Council's Committee on the Presidency, it is not surprising that the task is given to men who are at the same time active members of Congress, i.e. all the decisions made on members of the council that are made within the council, about the members of Congress, or about themselves, or about how they may be handled in some way. I think it's important to realize that the general rules of the administrative court are not relevant for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u9	V.E.G. President. I'm going to go to work now. The budget board. First, I'd like to step aside from the conversation of what? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, Thorstein, who asked the highest question. Travel minister, during unsubstantiated queries time, to some aspects relating to travel services, receipts, etc., on Istavia issues and planned investments and loans. V.E.G. A minister thought that we would need to take a good look at Isvia's issues, including those of a ministerial servant. The investments and the business plan, and I agree to the highest level. Minister. Large investments are political issues, the way the funding is done, and a project has to do with the coverage. It's about government policy. How do these investments and funding affect inflation development, future income gains, etc.? Then we can ask ourselves, " What is the debt behind the loan? ' Is it a future income or is it official property in the larger context, the importance of tourism, and the importance of national farming, exports, the prospect of the story, and the impact on the economic future? There are huge questions that arise in this relationship and are on the board of the Committee. Then I would like to highlight what is well done at the assembly and in the relations of the council and the administration. The Senate adopted an additional contribution to health institutions in the country, 400 million. K. The decision was made following the meeting of the Committee with all the directors of these institutions and in consultation with the Supreme Court. Secretary of health. This additional arrangement was made up of officials and ministers who would then review the need and exchange. V.E.G. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir promised to follow up on this arrangement by meeting with the Ministry and Fundament Committee. V.E.G. The minister kept that promise and saw a meeting this morning, very helpful. I'd like to commend the highest. Ministers, members of the council, the work force and, a respectable president, thank you for what is done well in our business.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u10	That's very useful.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u11	A respectable president. I'm only going to discuss the exact trust in the council, the Commission, i.e. Government, politics, general. It is not true that trust in the Generals is down. It's getting bigger. However, confidence in courts is shrinking, which is also serious. I'll mention it in view of what happened. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son went over before, and also to answer that which he had done well. A senator, that trust is growing at the General Assembly when we somehow avoid speaking too insensitively about what we see is in our system. I think that theory is wrong. I think confidence in the U.S. Generalis is growing because it has been very well seen how the General has been caring for his role and role in the last year or two. I'm just going to mention certain members of the council who have come on the map and entered the discussion of all kinds of things that have certainly been unpleasant. I don't necessarily expect it to increase confidence in the Generals, but trust must be enhanced when people see that the Council is able to handle the maintenance as well as the surveillance, so that it can be inconsistency, and certainly use words like willingness. They happen to be readily found in our system. There is also corruption in our system. People know everything about it, and we're not going to convince people that it's not by keeping it quiet, that's for sure. I think trust is increasing at the Council because we further demonstrate that we exist in this program and in this surveillance. It's my theory, and I think it's right. With last night's vote, I was wondering what to say. Councilmen left green, especially but also the highest words. A minister of finance, who wondered that the mistrust issues were going on about one particular minister, as if it were impossible for one minister to be the one to get rid of from office. I wondered if he was surprised, but I suddenly realized what it was after just thinking about it. The political culture in Iceland assumes a phenomenon called in the daily issue of social security and is, in fact, one form of corruption. [[The president calls.]] I think that's what we've seen here yesterday, though I know that people who participated in that discussion wouldn't be trying to keep this together. [[The president calls.]] It is the nature of our majority government. I'm sorry, I don't have more time, but I'm going to discuss this in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u12	A respectable president. Now there is a leak of wisdom between me and me. So my partner and I are discussing the same matter, which may well happen to be the case. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson also came in, i.e. ... trust. There seems to be something cooking up on that spot. In one way, it is unfortunate. paritaprevir This is for Hrafn's Helgi because while I listened to it. paritaprevir Empressing the son of Níelsson, I wrote a statement that cannot control my emotions. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson but I'll let her wander anyway: In a pontt to Brynjar's craze And sharpeneth his voice. He's doing a speech robbed of me. I wanted to learn about trust. That's exactly what I wanted to do and that's fine. paritaprevir This is where Hrafn Gunnarsson's son's shrine entered that trust in the Council is falling. That's exactly what's growing. The national pulse of Gallup showed that between February 2017 and 2018, it increased by 7 percent. But I'm not going to be as steep as a dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, claiming that I know why, bring in a hypothesis, and add, by permission of the President, so I'll witness at the moment. Senator: I think she's right. I don't know why trust is growing. I think there are a lot of factors in it, and I don't think any of us should take it, either in the government section or in the government position. Maybe it's because the government's doing so well, I don't know. Maybe that's why. I could stand here and say it was because the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter had increased confidence in the Council by 7 percent. I don't think there's one explanation for anything. You see, it also grew from 2016'2017. Something's happening, something we're doing right. The fans of football are often so fond of their man that they speak the other person down. Those who love Ronaldo talk to him so much that they almost say Messi sucks. I don't think we're supposed to be like that, I think we're all here moving along some way. I ask all of us to think what it is that we're doing right and do more of the same. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u13	Mr. President. I would like to use this opportunity to draw attention to a conclusion at the 48th convention of Iceland's Farmer and Fishing Association, held in November 2017, before the shortest, but may have disappeared in all the massive current situation, including after the election and other such. It leads to a resolution of the development of trade ships, which states that the tolerated council requires government to ensure that commercial shipping in Iceland will be competitive in the international competitive environment of the article. It continues, with the permission of the president: It is already canceled, but it must be ensured that the sector can come back to life and have a future. It may be evident that the country's import and export will always be based on sea transport... in the future. This is a very big case, Mr. President. It is attributed to the establishment of a competitive tax subsidies in accordance with international production. Moreover, it says by permission of the president: ▪ It is not a free nation that has no control over their ships. As far as it will go, almost no business ships or even no shopping ships are registered under the Icelandic flag. It hurts our pride as a nation, and it prevents our interests, as this conclusion indicates. We must not, Mr. President, compromise the right cause for justice in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to start by celebrating to the highest. The health minister is here in the hall. I'm here with a nice language that would be a good thing for her to look at. Less than six years ago, the Allied Code No. 45/2012, about a change in health insurance law and prescriptions. Even the law is subject to the law. to pay a drug charge. They went into effect on October 1, 2012, during the period of the Union government and left greener. The purpose of the law was also. to reduce the drug costs of those who become very ill at a short time, such as those diagnosed with cancer. The law, however, had bad effects for those who are weak for life or for long periods of illness. For the entry of the law, drugs for diabetic children were as free of insulin. After the law went into effect, insulin needs to be paid. A pregnant woman diagnosed with gestational diabetes needs to take a medicine that costs approximately $16,000. per month. A long - suffering family with a diabetic has to pay $50,000. every year for insulin. This is especially difficult for families with little means. Deaths have occurred abroad because parents have not been able to afford the release of drugs. It could happen here in the country as it is today. A left-green policy will say that the advantage of those who are least and weak will be improved. As in so many times before, we witness that politicians say one thing and do another. With these laws, the left man's interests were made worse for those who had the least and the weak. I'd like to encourage the highest. A health minister to correct this injustice brought upon him by her fellow members in the left government. Insulin is a essential hormone that should be free of charge for children.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u15	Mr. President. It's nice to hear this about trust at the Council and a very positive thing, as I said yesterday that there's going to be an increase. There are two patterns that regularly arise in the discussions at the General Assembly that I feel ashamed of the way we work here. The first pattern involves having a lack of understanding. The second pattern is to criticize language rather than content. A lack of understanding is an informal disorder. I don't understand x, therefore x is wrong. When people use this reasoning, they are under the pretext that their language is foreordained and that they are demeaning themselves. Everyone is aware that it would have been possible to study the matter and even try to understand the opponent's stand. It would even be intellectually honest to take pride in understanding what your opponent is saying, assuming that a person is not a fool, and so argues if there are any. A lack of understanding is a defense of one's lack of reason. To criticize language rather than content is a form of the famous omit of rationalism. A statement x contains a word I don't like, which is why an x is wrong. In particular, when people use this reasoning, they create the image that people who use certain expressions are malinformed, or even badly given. This may involve an attack on the individual's education or knowledge, but in reality it is an attack on the language itself that undermines the meaning of the words for a particular cause. This is seen by everyone who wants to, and those who criticize words do not criticize the content. It is more intellectually honest to take pride in understanding what your opponent is trying to say, assuming that a person is not a nut, and so argues if there are any. To be ashamed of speech is a defense to one who has no reason to reason. Once this has been explained, I hope we can try to band together to eliminate this tired contingency from the Council for good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u16	Mr. President. I think it's a little fun that during this discussion of the council's activities, we've been talking about the Senate's work a little bit, i.e. how we speak and how we work. So I'm going to use at least some of my case, maybe everything, to discuss this. Many different viewpoints have been presented here. It was fine as if you hadn't. A senator who was standing before me said about logic, logic, and the use of words. I think there's something we should always keep in mind, not only how we put the matter ahead but also how we criticize others because that's what we're supposed to do here. We're the type of people who have a different view of how to run a community. We represent these people, so it is only natural that we speak here for different viewpoints. It is only natural for us to deal with different viewpoints, but the complex issue of solution that we are also given is to try to achieve solidarity and the greatest agreement on these different viewpoints. This may be quite difficult, especially when we are far apart, but it does the work that we are facing, not less important, but even more important. Now it seems to me that I'm going to spend my entire speech session discussing this, but I don't think we're just skating by talking about it. It is also about reminding us that it is the political force in all the things we talk about here at the Council that really matters. [[The president calls.]] There we need to be careful. We all need to do so, but that is what the project is.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u17	A respectable president. What do governments, both present and former governments, possess? Are we a fourth - class citizen or completely out of the park? Then I'd like to give a special example in the matter of innovation. Now the electrical vehicle's in full swing. The most amazing thing about everything is that there is one parking lot for disabled cars that I know about, and that's at IKEA. One. As a result, you say that there is going to be an electrical vehicle all around the country, and that is not the case. The poor are not supposed to go around the country, since special equipment is absolutely necessary. Sadly, most battery stations are not available to disabled people, and there are no rules to access such loading stations. There have been rules against at least 4% or one in every 25 parking lot should be available. For loading stations, the U.S. Department has recommended that 1 in 7 people be available. The second Monday represents the IBI topic team for the International Day of Bioavailability, where this very matter will be discussed. I've already sent a query to the highest level. Minister on how this matter will be handled. I feel that the government should have been able to make a statement on this day that there will be no compromise, and there will be no evasion and an electrical vehicle for micro-management if everyone can use this new one.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u18	A respectable president. I would like to, as others have done here today, just to discuss trust, trust in the work of the council, confidence in the public belief in the council, and the responsibilities and duties that we all have there. I think it's good to bear in mind that we often resort to the discussion that there is mistrust in our work when we struggle, when we cope, and when there is a possibility that there is some language to be taken advantage of. It may be true that we certainly need to be careful, but I think it is far more important to keep in mind that trust is just what we earn. The public trusts us or distrusts us from our work, how we stand up for the responsibility and duty we have faced as members of the body. How important it is that we approach that responsibility, with humility and respect for our work, for our position, and for one another! That is where we benefit most from the respect of the council. We should not belittle one another's viewpoints if we struggle with them. We are to take the matter, not the man, but we should also show in our actions that when we accept it, the interests of the public are in control, that we are not afraid to handle serious matters, and even though opinions are very important, we show that there is no need for public interest but that we are not limited to the interests of ourselves, let alone our personal interests. That is important in the matters we deal with. The same is true in our own interests at the council when we discuss, for example. The remuneration and the services that we create the terms of Congress. I think we should keep this in mind when discussing trust in the council. [[The president calls.]] Let us show humility, show respect, let the public interest rule. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u19	The president would like to thank for the excellent discussion that has taken place here regarding communication within the council and trust given to the council. The president would like to say about the verbal exchange that took place here on the cost of Congress and reimbursement costs, information supply, and the changes in the materials as well as on appropriate matters. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear to the presiding committee that these matters all are being prepared and addressed in their proper place on the Presidency Committee, as per law. There and only there will they be resolved and there and only there will decisions about such things be made. The unusual thing is because of the nature of circumstances and special circumstances and associated discussions over the past few days and weeks, the prime committee has agreed to settle the evidence, their work data in a case still under discussion, official. And now they're all why. General members as well as the media are available on the Generals web. The president will advise you to learn what was done here to discuss earlier in the discussion if they choose to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u20	A respectable president. I appreciate the fact that this case is on schedule, i.e. A report by the National Review to the General Assembly on Iceland's Medical Insurance as Buyer of Health Services. This is one of a number of reports of Kingdom Accounting, which are particularly important because of the wide range of conclusions it offers. If noted, it is primarily a matter of Iceland's health insurance and the contribution of the institution to buying health care under law. However, when research and research are made, it can be seen that this is much more about the policy and policylessness of the Icelandic health system. As a result, I asked the Council to discuss the matter with the council. I believe this is a very good basis for continuing policy development, but the aim was, of course, to evaluate the quality of Iceland's Medical Insurance on the Preservation of Health Care. Official reviews then considered agreements in terms of the extent, interests, etc. and became particularly viewed as frame deals. However, the conclusion may have been much better that the health - care issues of the Icelandic health system are a lack of health policy. I have previously made it known to the Allied that I believe that we are right in trying to put together health policy in a parapolitic setting and that it is just one of our challenge here and also to adopt the name of a assembly worthy of trust, which we could once again have the opportunity to increase faith and confidence in the public population at the World Council. Because the time for the discussion isn't long, I might primarily want to shift to the indications presented in the report, on the one hand to the Ministry of Health and the other to the health insurance of Iceland. However, since Iceland's Medical Insurance is one of the Ministry's institutions, it can be said that all of the indications on health insurance are directly directed to the Ministry of Health and Health. Therefore, a government review points to the Ministry of Health that the policy for health care needs to be established, as noted earlier, and second, to ensure that proper negotiations are required. The notes directed to Iceland's Medical Insurance have to be funded by the financial support of Iceland's Medical Insurance, the need to perform the necessary diagnostics for negotiations, to perform improved quality requirements for health care contracts, to ensure a targeted pay for health care services, and to develop a manufacturing-related funding contract, as mentioned. On the first indication, i.e. that we have to set health policy here to make health insurance in Iceland and other health care institutions can be said to sail along, that we know the way we are, so to answer my evaluation, this recommendation is not just needed, but is necessary. It is vital that we make this clear in a social setting that if we are to set all these factors, we must set health policies. Therefore, health policy will never be out of control, nor will it be a permanent document, but it will be a fundamental part of the Community covenant. The government's declaration of policy shows that we will work health policies [...] with regard to the needs of all the people and better define the role of the individual components of health care and their interaction. In this discussion, I would like to specifically review and reiterate that this policy is to be an election policy that is actually about equal access to health care care, regardless of the economy or habitat where public funds are reasonable measures, with the content quality and equation of the number one, two and three. In fact, work is beginning with this policy and has already been appointed task force with the directors of the two health care centres of the capital environment for the services of health professionals within the medical institutions and how to cooperate with the institutions. The groups have been assigned to determine the desired services to be performed in national health institutions and how best to ensure that patients are access to that service. The Ministry has cooperated with the administration of land doctors and Iceland's health insurance insurance to identify the medical services provided by health clinics and independent doctors, which are the basis for the work of the group. However, in the report there are repeated reports that there can be significant improvements in the workforce and cooperation between the health - care providers and the association between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the surgeon's office and Iceland's Hospital. Of course, it is also a conjunction with the Ministry of Health at any given time. As for the work exchange here considered, to ensure that, in the process of contracting normally, there are agreements, to answer about the work that is already started at the Ministry that we are on the basis of, and the one here, strongly agree that we need to sharpen our actions and responsibilities, we make agreements for health care. During the past few months, the Ministry has done more work with Iceland's Medical Insurance on contracts, especially since clear health care policies are not available. Thus, in view of this, the Ministry has presented policy-making policies for specific matters so that negotiations can be won out from those viewpoints. Of course, it should be noted that the serious indication that the health - care minister's policy should be a basic premium in Iceland's health insurance operation, but since not available, the trend was that, first of all, the budgets are financed, secondly, temporary action projects and third, the solution of intervening problems would be the factors that create health policy at any given time and thereby laid the basis for the development of the health system that no one has at the end of the purpose, but is by chance at any given time. I think it's very important to face this show. The Ministry also wants to work on this and is working on explaining the work between the institutions and supporting Iceland's health insurance in the role they're intended to play under health insurance laws, i.e. taking into account the indications contained in a report Marketing Review. The Ministry feels that with health policy and a clearer health - care workgroup, it will be possible to solve the problems and conflict between the strains and the National Reexamination Centres. It must be so with this report, and I just want to sharpen the General Assembly on the general basis that it is often an enormous and good supply in the reports of the Government Re-examination, which is one of the Council's tools to provide the Commission with support and surveillance, to follow these indications, the Ministry and the agencies call for a meeting of the Commission and Control Committee or Council Committee, or members of the Parliament after incidents and ask how the individual signals are handled in such reports. A public review is an enormously important tool in that subject. Here, basically, it is: The Icelandic health system has evolved randomly, it lacks overall vision, it lacks vision, it lacks clear, specific interaction between the individual aspects of the system, and for two reasons it cannot be enjoyed. First, because that is not the time for the public funds that we are expected to set aside as the most reasonable means for the public in our country. It is not to be taken into account in a safe, predictable, and targeted way, however, because there is a risk of it in the system as it is, because of the immutable purchase of health care services, that we are stuck in two ways, on the other hand, possibly of overtreatment, i.e. too many services, and on the other hand wait list, i.e. Lack of service. This imbalance that we see in Iceland to a greater extent than in the countries around us, on the other hand, in the forward and waiting lists, reflects the lack of policy. I trust that I have a body member in monopolitanizing this project and viewing it as a joint project, not a project of the present government, but the project of the General Assembly, which is about to take on increased confidence. As an executive executive of this category, I pledge to hold it as well as I can.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u21	Mr. President. A recent report by the National Reexamination of Iceland's Medical Insurance is a heavy review of how to cope with these inventions. The report confirms that Iceland's Medical Insurance is an institution that is weak and has never fully lived up to its expectations. Whether the ideologies on which the operation is based is not filled with misunderstandings about the health - care environment, purchases, and sales as per market, does not make health service seem like any other secretor. These are imported ideas based on millions of communities, but we are a small nation where acquaintances, family, and adversaries have been given a deep roots. There are several characteristics in Iceland's Medical Insurance issues. Relationships with the country's largest political party from its beginning have been striking and unnatural. The prints don't hide, from director to big service providers. This connection and method of action is critical and should even be a basis for independent opinion. The report confirms that when health insurance for Iceland began its work in 2008, it was expected that employees with expertise within the Department of Insurance, Health Care and Hospitals would move to health insurance to promote the Agency and the state's high level of agreement on operating machines with health care. None of this has been done. The lack of expertise and negotiations is ongoing, as defined. This is the opinion of those who report that quality control has not been available since Iceland's Medical Insurance went into operation. There has been a lack of professional logic and practicality, and it has even greatly influenced individual health professionals or professional groups. In other words, public funds have been unwarranted. The report tore up several aspects of how health institutions are financed. The result is simply a matter of whether institutions are on fixed budgets or contracts with Iceland's Medical Insurance where production-related funding is valid, i.e. where there is a direct payment for the work being done. This system is now in the health care of the capital area and will be used this year in part at the Hospital. This is important. There are obvious benefits, but there is much to be avoided, as the experience in neighboring countries has shown, and the report is very close. With simple subsidies, there is a danger of increasing the cost of production, for such an arrangement to promote overproduction at the expense of quality. It is therefore important that in treaties there are clear definitions of quantity, quality, efficiency, and, in particular, equality for all the people of the country. In recent years, Iceland's health insurance costs have increased dramatically, far beyond any other factor, and most of all in the capital area. At the same time, public health agencies have been starving to the knees. According to all the naturalities, it would seem that it reflected a whole range of health care policies in the country and would be consistent with a detailed analysis, but unfortunately it is not. That's where there's gonna be a fit. A report by the National Review Office shows that there is no objective in buying and selling medical services but is sold out and kept under observation, and there is no perspective on whether any professional goals are achieved and whether the services actually meet the requirements for practicality and prices. The report shows weak efforts to control the costs between institutions, probably to help identify the importance of the quality of the service. But there's like so many other things in our good health system, there's this weird thing in Iceland. In the rehabilitation sector the cost of operating in the smoking centre is greatly different from that of the National Institute of Health in Hoaling. The comparison is far - fetched, since these institutions are not comparable, but both are important. If, for example, the cost of extensive rehabilitation is compared to that of similar institutions, the landstones must be searched outside, e.g. To Sunnaas, Norway, where similar services are probably twice as expensive as on Smokeund. Iceland's Medical Insurance Convention on Public Health has also had pure contrasts, especially in the country. A lot of transparency. We may have about 20,000 m2 of well-dressed homes here on the southwest corner, which are totally useless, of which we share, of the State, of the service, of the seller, and of the buyer. But we are linked to an erring business market. We know very little about what we can get for the money, and access to the medical registration is also limited. We are to place our own appropriate roles, strengthen them, and strengthen them. Mr. President. V.E.G. A health minister has acknowledged that considerable chaos exists in the system, and likely he is nowhere as striking as with Iceland's Medical Insurance. But the agency's a pity. Of course, the guide in the procedure should be a health - care minister's policy. The problem is that the overall policy in the spirit that health - care laws recommend and the health insurance laws have never been set up, so there is no good. V.E.G. Health Ministers have declared that they will promote policies in harmony with councils and nations, which are a challenge but fundamental challenge. In it she will have the support of the Conspiracy Guide that speaks for a range of freedoms and efficiency in the system. The recent revision must consider whether it is not necessary to reevaluate the role and operation of Iceland's Medical Insurance, which, in my opinion, was the cloud city of Independence, which is now broken down.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u22	A respectable president. We'll discuss a report on Iceland's Medical Insurance Research. That's a good idea. Thank you very much. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir for her speech. I agree with her when she says that health care for all the people of the country, quality, and equality is a means of action. This report has included a number of helpful tips and points out what may be better, and it also provides a fine start for a new minister to build up better and more healthful health systems. As the report explains, a decision must be made as to the services of the government's health institutions and the services to be purchased by other agents and in what amount. Based on this policy, the Ministry needs to ensure that Iceland's health insurance and other key health institutions operate in a consistent manner toward set targets. There is good guidance into the future, as well as better quality control, not only from health insurance but also from the institutions itself, we know it. Increasing quality control is an enormous factor so that the quality of the ministry can be evaluated on the same basis. The National Review Board encourages the health insurance of Iceland to provide a detailed description of the quantity and quality of the service agreed on at any given time. In this regard clinical and medical guidelines should be used to allow patients to have appropriate health care services regardless of location. A respectable president. We have often discussed this in this hall that in many parts of the country, people do not sit at the same level as those living here in the capital area. In the Western Islands, e.g. not a perfect birth aid for years. It is estimated that such full - time service in the Western Islands would cost 250 million a year. It is bad in an island society where transportation can be difficult, even fatal, not having birth service. We all know that every member of our family living in the country has to come to Reykjavík, live here for days and weeks, and wait for her wife, sister, aunt, or daughter to have her baby. We all know that. Maki is accompanied by, even by children. This is expensive, not just for those families, but for society. It is an appropriate service to be able to give birth to a child in his own home. I know it's a priority too. There may not be enough experts, but as far as possible, we need to perform appropriate services regardless of the type of living that a minister mentioned at the outset, quality, and equation. I wholeheartedly agree with her. It is a tremendous challenge for us to achieve it, a fine guide to apply it. The surgeon general and health insurance of Iceland have been working to identify the medical services provided at the National Institutes of Health and by independent medical professionals under the contract to Iceland's Medical Insurance. To such a group, a minister should report in 2018. All of us know that health - care contractors are a known phenomenon, that contractors are needed. We can see it in the country. It is very important for many medical procedures in this country to have access to contractors to serve where medical procedures are difficult to obtain. In fact, I feel that these activities have become widespread enough to show that many doctors use all their leisure time to go out into the country, maintain a good service; stay there even for a week, and work all day long for seven days. This is not entirely in accordance with the rules of rest time in the labour market, working 24 hours a day for days. There's nothing natural about it. Although we are happy that such service is available, it cannot be the solution to the future. There is a great shortage of health care professionals in Smokejanestown. The waiting room on the clinic is empty all day until the second part. Doctors who have completed their work here in the middle of the day drive the Smokejanes Way and receive patients from the health care center from four or five in the afternoon through eight, with so - called green tickets. We also know who have used our service and discussed this with the doctors, that, of course, this is not the kind of service that communities would like to have. In a South American community of 25,000 people, we do not want to have the privilege of consulting doctors after the day's closing; a sudden service as they themselves acknowledge. They're all of us willing to do it, no time to go over the medical history, no time to think about things, but these are all set over the table. I'm not minimizing anyone, doctors or anyone else. I'm just saying, this is the situation. We live in Southnes, not just for a week, but for all weeks and months for years. We don't want this kind of service. We want a real service, that we can come to our clinic from 8 o'clock in the morning to 4 in the day when it's actually opening up right now. I know, after my conversations with the highest. A health minister, that she wants to change this, may need more than her will. We need a new spirit in this discussion so that we can begin to invite all the people of the land regardless of the means for good medical care. We've fixed our salary very much, and it's about to make them want to come home, want to work at home, be in this society that's so good and rewarding, and do good. I think it's very important. It can also help us if money comes with the patients, as it does with them. Over the past three years, the number of inhabitants has increased by 21%. Last year there were 2,700 people, as many as Gardi and Sandmaker live. It's like they've all moved across the pagans in one day at the city of Rhines. At the same time, contributions to the hospital increase by 1% per year, with a range of 0.5% of these budgets. As the population grows so rapidly, it is difficult to improve the ministry, but the money does not follow. Just at the end, I want to remind you that there has been a significant increase in health - insurance expenses during 20123/42016. Thus, medical costs have increased by 60%, S-labelled medicinal products by 23%, aid tools by 30%, dentists by 125%, and medical transportation and international travel by 68%; in total these groups have increased by 30%. Of course, this is being added, but better if it is to be done. This report is a fine start and a fine tiptoe to make a presentation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u23	Mr. President. I welcome this report. It's very important, especially since Iceland's health insurance is a very large part of the budget and government spending. Therefore, it is very important that countries maintain and effectiveness, while this report is also a review of the work of this important organisation. Then you ask yourself, " Who is responsible? ' Will anyone shoulder it? There are 12 things I want to mention here that I think are the most important and I want to list here. Some of these are worded out of the report, but as mentioned here, health ministers have not developed this focalal policy and the highest. A minister is awaiting this important and big task. Additionally, the Agency's management board has not developed long-term policy for the Agency as it should be under the health insurance laws. It's important to keep that in mind. Much of the Agency's contracts and agreements have been driven by the emphasis on budget, temporary action and the release of intervening problems at one time. Such measures do not contribute to long-term efficiency and efficiency. Under such conditions, treaties of health insurance have actually been a policyer for the development and development of the health system, and that is naturally bad. The state reexamination revealed a degree of tension, as noted, between key health institutions, i.e. Iceland's health insurance, the land doctor's office, the Hospital. According to Government Retrospectives, some of this is due to the vague policy of government and health care organization. There are many policy measures listed here, but there are cases where the Ministry made agreements without the approval of the Agency or has one-sided established agreements, such as in the case of a non-medical cure agreement. Then there are some cases that the Ministry has entrusted the Agency with buying a service that does not meet the professional requirements of health insurance laws as per the Convention on Treatment in Krysuvik. Krysavík is a sad example that we have heard about in the media, and it's very important that we learn from, especially the Agency. There have been cases of lack of adequate analysis of health insurance needs, costs, and benefits. This is most reprehensible, and it is important that things be made better. There have been agreed agreements to purchase health care services which are not fully in line with the health insurance regulations for specific volumes, clear quality, or equal access to citizens of the country. In view of this, the National Medical Insurance Convention can be considered on the one hand, physical therapy and non - hospital cures. I also stipulated that the National Reconnaissance concluded that a targeted purchase of health care is possible within broad framework agreements and encourages the Agency to assess the benefits of negotiating individual services on the basis of a careful analysis. That's an interesting point. According to the surgeon general's diagnosis, the health services provided under the National Medical Insurance for Medical Care for Hospitals are not consistent with the normal need for services, i.e. that in some cases you may have abnormally excessive use of services. All of these are very interesting suggestions and suggestions that we must take seriously. It also says that there is a need to sharpen the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Health. Then there's one more point that I find interesting, the State Reconnaissance encourages the Ministry to explain responsibilities and to consider the benefits of providing Iceland's Health Insurance Management Board increased role in policy, preparation, preparation and monitoring of the Agency's contracts. This is critical in my opinion because it is the job of the Ministry to work on policy, not Iceland's Medical Insurance. I hope a minister accepts what I mention in this relationship. I don't think this indication is what we're talking about from this room. Finally, what are we going to do with our report? Often there are excellent reports, and then you ask, "What then? " It is very important that we take all the factors presented in this report seriously and immediately work on making some very important improvements in this category. As I say, there's a lot of work to do and I'm the highest. Health Minister to the meability of these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u24	V.E.G. President. Here's a report by the National Reexamination of Iceland's Medical Insurance as Buyer of Health Services. The report was published in February. The main conclusions of the Re-examination are that there is a lack of a comprehensive health care policy but, unfortunately, there has been no policy in this major and important category of issues to many years. In the past few years, everyone has the highest. Health Ministers refer to the importance of providing a comprehensive health plan, but it has not seen the day. The government covenant of the present government places great emphasis on these matters, which, in part, says by permission of the president: In view of the needs of all the people of the country, the government will fully meet national health policies and better define the role of the individual components of health care and their interaction. The aims and means of health care will be adopted in cooperation with the trade and surgeon's office in order to contribute to the nation's good health and provide a more desirable field for health care professionals. Health care will be strengthened as the first stop of users. It is important that this work be done as soon as possible. A report by Government Review also points to a conflict between key health centres, i.e. Iceland's health insurance, the land doctor's office, the Hospital. According to Government Review, in part this tension is due to a vague government policy on health care. This has prevented treaties, contracts, and health - care subsidies from being targeted and economicly practical. Government reviews also feel the need to improve the ability of Iceland's Medical Insurance to negotiate a targeted contract for health care. The responsibility and role of the Ministry of Health and Iceland's Medical Insurance are also explained by Government Accounting. An example is that the Ministry made a contract without the involvement of the Agency or established the basis for agreements, as in the case of a non-meditated medical contract. In addition, the National Review says that the responsibility and role of the Ministry of Health and Health insurance of Iceland need to be explained to health care professionals, to better identify the needs of health care professionals, and to provide detailed instructions on the quantity and quality of the services agreed on each case. In this regard clinical and medical guidelines should be used to ensure that health care is properly supported regardless of the facility, while the agreements of health insurance have a significant impact on the development of the health system. V.E.G. President. The priorities of the Agency's team during the season of 2016-2017 were proposed for a hearing on the health plan for Iceland. The aim of the proposal was to assign a health minister to start working with a health plan for Iceland. According to the recommendation, the healthcare programme was to be performed in conjunction with healthcare professionals in the HCPs. Her type included her own type. to take into account geographic factors such as transportation and distance between habitats. An essay with the proposal says that the article the objective of the Parliament resolution proposal is to work on a health plan for Iceland. During the 2016 General election, many believed that there was a need to improve health systems in Iceland and that they were associated with the movers. Special attention was given to the importance of health policy and the need to continue funding for the seminary, as was done during the last term under the Commission. In this context and the case to support this, it can be noted that in the McKinsey report published in 2016, the overall contribution to health in Iceland in 2014 was 8.8% of gross domestic product, which is close to the average OECD and lower than in other parts of the North countries, with the exception of Finland. The assessment of health costs in Iceland requires observation of other health care systems, taking into account national and demographic factors affecting the need for health care professionals. There are some underlying factors in Iceland that affect the effectiveness and quality of the health care system and reduce the requirement for health care. On the other hand, there is also the inefficiency of the Icelandic health system, which contributes to the increased demand. In the final status of the McKinsey report, it has been reported. that there is an interesting time in Icelandic health care, that the health system has faced great challenges as the bank crash, when financial contributions were severely reduced, but they were able to get through the difficulties and continue to provide quality services. The development in the Land Hospital was, in many respects, a symbolic feature of that period. With increasing demand, the hospital was able to reduce the cost considerably without sacrificing the quality of the ministry. Despite impressive performances in recent years, not everything is best chosen in the Icelandic health system. There is a lack of clearer management between the various health care providers and a control tool that enables us to control evolution. In addition, this report has suggested system-based problems that limit cost-separation or raise questions about the quality of services in certain parts of the system. The report also says that during the past few years, there has been an increase in the budget for health care in Iceland, so there has been a unique opportunity to deal with these problems and to ensure that the Icelandic health system provides quality services in all areas. With clear health policies and increased financial resources at the point of need, investments will be assured to become the most useful, leading to a stronger and more efficient system. In view of these findings that appeared in the McKinsey report and due to lack of health policy policies, the movers made the proposal for a health plan for Iceland and that it would be won as soon as possible. Transporters felt that it was still important for health - care professionals to come to work because they know best and benefit from the knowledge and resources available. It is important that health professionals come from many parts of the country, since conditions in the health system may vary depending on whether they work in large hospitals or in smaller clinics in the country. The healthcare programme will include take into account geographic factors such as transport and distance between habitats. It will also take into account the population development of health - care centres, the population age preparation, the location of a medical vehicle, and the availability of a medical flight, to name something. At the same time, the strategy will be considered to see if parishes are involved in making use of the wealth of medical facilities in the country and thus reducing the strain of land hospitals. According to the original proposal, a medical program was to be submitted at the General Assembly in December 2017. V.E.G. President. It is safe to say that there are some agreements between the McKinsey report and the conclusion of a report by State Review. It is necessary to establish a clear health policy in the country where goals and activities are made. It is essential to trust, credibility, and the image we want in this great and important group of subjects. This priority was adopted at the General Assembly on May 31, 2017. In a material process involving the welfare committee, adjustments were made to the proposal that included the procedure. in that the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and Education and Culture would be able to work on a health plan to ensure financial support for the seminary and health professionals' education. In addition, it was clearly stated that targeted work should be started immediately in 2017. According to the agreed proposal, the General Assembly was to become informed about the outworking of the case no later than at the beginning of autumn of 2017 and then at regular intervals until the work was completed. We all know what happened then, but I want to encourage the highest. A health minister not to start with a health plan for Iceland but to take advantage of the work available within the Ministry so that the project will be successful. It is essential that our health systems and their institutions work as required.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u25	President. I'd like to start by celebrating this discussion and thank you very much. Minister for taking the initiative on her. After my review of a State Review report, I thought I'd pray to the highest level. Minister to appear before the committee to discuss it. I'm so glad we're taking this case into account, it's much better to discuss it here in the Lady Alllis. We have here a new report by the National Reexamination of Iceland's Medical Insurance as the Buyer of Health. It should therefore be noted that an assessment of the quality of health care costs has been made, so it is not only one of the largest financial fees we have but also one of the greatest instruments we already have to secure the health of our citizens. The government's trade at health care through Iceland's Medical Insurance has to be practical. But there must be more, there must be a loss to ensure the quality of services and to promote better health in the country. The aim of the assessment was to evaluate the performance of Iceland's Medical Insurance when buying health care. In view of their scope, interests and opportunities for improvement, the Agency's decision-making was particularly focused on its choice of agreements. The largest and largest treaties were to be considered. When we make extensive agreements about health care, it is very important that the interests of the services are in priority. The danger, of course, is that other interests can be handled; business ties, financial interests involved, or other aspects. It is extremely important that, as stated at 40 C.E., we keep the interests of health - care professionals in first place. Act on health insurance. Before I reach the necessary improvements we have to make in the group, I'd like to direct my case only to the individual contracts of Iceland's Medical Insurance. Chapter 3 of this report provides an overview of key agreements and health insurance expenses. Health, accidents, and health insurance expenditures were 41.1 billion. in 2016. Health insurance payments included most of the budget, or more than 40 billion dollars. Of that amount, about a quarter went to medical expenses, the largest single cost of health insurance. Since 2012 the increase in this cost was about 60%. In terms of GDP, there is an actual increase during that period of 47%. The report reports that the largest part of this cost is paid according to the National Medical Insurance Convention and Medical Experts on out - of - hospital cures. Expenditures due to this contract in 2016 were over 6 billion. What we see is that in recent years there has been a tremendous increase in expenses for experts. It is of utmost importance to consider how these funds are spent, for the report contains a special feature on the financial contract of Medical Insurance and Experts signed in December 2013 during the reign of Kristján Júlíusson, now the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers. The information given to the National Remuneration Convention from Medical Insurance did not give National Relations reason to believe that a contract process was based on a comprehensive and detailed need-and-exploitation analysis. Then the role plan and responsibilities of the State's buying of health care have been blurred. In recent times, the Ministry's interpretation of the agreements has been criticized. The surgeon general made a comment regarding the Ministry's interpretation that clinical function could be viewed as any other practice by physicians, in a statement made on April 19, 2017. According to the government's opinion, there would be a special medical service that needed a minister's permission. The office then considered it difficult to see how health authorities could control every public health funding if it was the case that health care agencies did not need a minister to provide a special hospital service that could be funded on the basis of a non-medical framework. This interpretation of the framework agreement has helped to make it easier for those who intend to gain financial support according to their agreements. This interpretation allows for the self-doing of the money for personal failures. A government review has described that it considers conflict to be between health key stakes, the Ministry of Health, the Health for Health, Iceland's Medical Insurance, Land Hospital, and the surgeon's office. The tension is clarified, including of blurred vision in the frame contract, but also because health policy is missing, which I will discuss more on later. Then there is the system of payment used in the contract that is criticized by Kingdom Accounting. According to the report, the payment system remains based on job and the factors involved in the cost of action and medical equipment. Thus, payment is not directly linked to success and quality. Simple labor payments that pay for jobs, regardless of the performance of the tasks, increase production regardless of quality and increase the risk of forwarding, tilting, and self-sustaining growth. National Reunion with a representative of Iceland's Medical Insurance and the surgeon's office stated that cooperation in quality monitoring has not been available since 2008. In accordance with the National Competent Authority Regulation, the National Health Organization (HPC) shall make a specific assessment of the implementation of agreements and how well the service provider has met the contract requirements when the end of the contract is due. According to a report by the National Review Board, this rule has not been adhered well enough and should be adjusted accordingly. The arrangements are needed to ensure the quality of the ministry. In terms of legal surveillance by surgeons, only one assessment has been performed in the past decade of a work under the National Medical Insurance of Health Care for Hospitals, i.e. in 2016 an independent mental - health professional. The review revealed a number of problems that provide many opportunities for improvement. In chapter 5 of this report, we will discuss negotiations with the Hospital. I will not give too much consideration to this section of the report. However, I would like to mention that the Landspians are largely funded by a solid financial contribution, unlike the funding paid by experts. Despite the desire to introduce production-related funding, this has not been achieved. As a result, each year the government of the Land Hospital, the politicians, and the general public must fight to ensure that the National Hospital receives sufficient funds for the operation. Sadly, many times we have been disappointed with the results of that struggle. The report states that the health minister appointed a team of workers in the fall of 2015 to evaluate experience in the implementation of health insurance laws. The staff returned a report in February 2016. The report included: to find suggestions that would be adopted in a similar health - care system. It must be essential that health - care services, whether services are provided in public or private matters, be made up of large amounts of government funds in either case. It cannot be said that public health care is on a fixed budget without linking with the burden of disease, the needs of services and tasks performed while each work is paid for in the private ministry. This has led to much inconsistencies in the way these two systems operate where one is paid more to do more work, while paying for each job reduces what more jobs are done in the other system. The report encourages the Department of Health General's review to work in a specific way on the results of the work force and to publish its report. They must take a clear view of their opinions and determine if the suggestions of the group can be the basis for improvement. It's my hope to the highest. Health Minister will put into practice the reexamination of the payment system of state - controlled medical services. I'd be delighted to hear a minister's opinion of it. The basic problem we face and spread is that for a long time we have lacked health policy. It must be understood that the politics have been wrapped up with former stewards, that has stopped the necessary developments that we must promote in that category. At least the last three ministers have worked on a global health - care policy, which has been working all day long. Now the new one has the highest power. A health secretary may wish to correct this condition. So I would like to encourage the minister to complete the procedure and contribute the first. I would also like to mention that I trust my current highest trust. A health minister for this assignment, and he thinks her approach is very cool. The report makes it clear that the contracts of Iceland's Medical Insurance have not always been used by adequate analysis of the needs of health insurance, costs, and benefits. That's very reprehensible. As a result, a service with the missing definitions of quantity, quality and access to the service of all the people of the country is purchased. It can be read in the report that there is no detailed requirements for the type of service requested. Clearly, this has not been the case with basics that apply to the purchase of services. Iceland's Medical Insurance Convention with Experts expires this year. I hope we can do better when it comes to making a new deal, and I hope a minister will promote the advantage of patients, the practical use of public funds, and the public health of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u26	Mr. President. The bottom line is this: It has not been developed as a whole of health policy for the country, and it may be viewed as an unbelievable complacency in the political field of making this issue a blow in this way. Of course, it makes sense that there is no such course as health insurance. To make matters worse, the health - insurance management board is assigned a role for the development of long - term policy in its field but has not done so. Of course, Mr. President, there is no way to achieve the efficiency and efficiency of treaties if there is no policy to go. It is remarkable to think that there have been three budgets under way on the basis of a new financial strategy and a new law frame on the basis of a law on public finance, with high emphasis on policy in the individual sectors, and yet we are in a situation where a Government Review makes search and find no policy in one of the largest budget groups. Under the conditions in these areas, policy plans seem to fall into the hands of those institutions who make contracts that in reality become a health - care policy. The report shows that the duties and roles of the Ministry and Medical Insurance and the cut-offs between these are unclear. Some of these, of course, are well - known examples. It's an example of a contract the Ministry has done without access to Medical Security. Thus, the Ministry has one - sided basis for contracts, as was the case with the provision of medical treatment outside the hospital. In addition, the Ministry has committed health insurance to purchase a service that does not meet professional requirements, however legal. An example of this is a treatment service in Krysuvik. At that time, agreements for the contracting of health care services that are not fully in accordance with the legal requirements for the specific quantity, clear quality and equal availability of citizens of the land have been made for health care. A surgeon has noted that in some cases there may be unusual use of services. Mr. President. About hiding health insurance in these circumstances dating roles, such as some scheme seems to be around, I say, "No, it can't be considered. " The Ministry cannot thus succumb to responsibility for its policy role. Mr. President. The publication of Kingdom Review includes a heavy sentence of blame. A major project, as explained in the report on page, is faced by a health minister. 6, with President's permission: The Ministry of Health has to set up a comprehensive health service policy that Iceland's Health Insurance can build in contracts for health care. Of course, the task of a minister is more extensive, and there are other indications in this important and needed report, as mentioned on page 24. 6 and 7. I'll give the health minister all good luck and good luck to this important subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u27	Mr. President. This newly published report on Iceland's Medical Insurance and Medical Services is of interest, especially since it is still another reminder that we first take on the major task that it is to shape health care policies to the future. I will quote Birgir, son of Jakobsson, who is still a surgeon from an interview with RUS in November. He said there that it would be dangerous to add money to the health system without changing it too. It takes more money, but it doesn't solve everything, that planning needs to be adjusted. Much of this is about it. How are we going to change the health system in Iceland while meeting a great and cumulative need for extra money, changing how we stand at the big words? It is evident that health care laws recommend that every country has the opportunity to provide the best health care possible at any given time for the protection of mental, physical, and social health. As part of the National Reexamination Programme, there is a suggestion to improve Iceland's health insurance agreements. In view of the Agency, they are not able to see that they have generally ensured a targeted health - care trade for the government. There can also be any doubt that the contracts will be practical or will contribute to the improved functioning of the entire health system. These include, in particular, that they have not used adequate analysis of needs, costs and benefits, as well as contracts that do not clearly define quantity, quality, or equal access to citizens of the country. The report explains the importance of making normal agreements in such agreements, remarkablely, that there are cases of health officials making such agreements without the introduction of health insurance or that the Ministry determines one - sided grounds for such agreements. It's abnormal in my opinion, it's abnormal in the National Reexamination assessment, and it was abnormal in the opinion of the Lawgiver when the medical law was approved. At the same time that the importance of health insurance administration is stated in the report that the necessary knowledge within the Agency and its ability to care for these analyses, to work on contracts, and to monitor their implementation is needed. In other words, a state-of-the-art review suggests that the Agency can perform its legal functions while the aim of the health insurance law is to ensure health protection by health insurance, always access to health services irrespective of the economy, and to promote economic and national acceptables in health care and maximum services. Then, it is also the law's job to strengthen the role of the state as a health - care buyer and at the expense of the service. If you're doing well, it's good. I mentioned earlier that much of the matter was about how we were going to change the system in such a way that we could fulfill the big words. Therefore, the review of The Ministry of Health is directed to the health care department to set health care policies and to ensure that the key systems operate in a consistent manner toward its objectives. Such policies need to explain the services and services to be purchased by other agencies. The lack of policy in health care has led to the emphasis on each budget, temporary action projects, and the release of intercurrent problems that have been shaped by decision-making agreements for health care and thereby the development of the system. This is where policy has been. This is the big job. Where are the analyses of the need for medical care in the present and future, and in what way has such need been identified today? It is clear that a report by the National Review Board does not give the health authorities high grades when it comes to implementing certain agreements for private activities in certain articles, and that is a shame. I believe that, and the policy of Restoration, in order to achieve high and high targets for health care that all the people of the country should enjoy and should be paid from a common fund, there are a wide variety of shapes that are positive as long as equal funds are maintained in financing between different management programmes, including the public. Increased efficiency, increased efficiency, and improved management of funds - these must be guided by this category, along with the necessary and indistinguishable emphasis on the quality of the ministry, including emphasis for its users and those it provides. One essential factor in this approach, and specifically referred to by the National Review Committee, is the importance of the new Hospital Convention on Products, on production-related financing, to maximise the effectiveness and efficiency of the hospital. It is very important that these matters be completed, not only because of the hospital's impact, given a national review, but also that this cooperation between health institutions makes it more efficient, making it easier, including cooperation across different business plans, institutions with the same objective, to provide all the first-class health services. The key point is a vision of the future, a clear direction, goals, procedures, then follow-up - that all of these are present, OK, and followed. And that is equal to government business or private business. According to the National Government Convention, it will fully meet health policies for Iceland, taking into account the needs of all the people of the country, and better define the role of the individual components of health care and their interaction. That's fine. However, the use of capital or efficiency is not discussed, but it needs to be combined if you want it to be well. I have to focus on the course of the Independence Party of this group, but this class has been handling health issues for some time. His policy has been in the government business in these matters. I'm going to be able to quote the category of policy, with the permission of the president: It will also help to determine whether tax costs can be better and expand services by continuing to use the possibility of a wide range of management practices, with emphasis on clear quality requirements as well as remuneration, regardless of sectoral management practices. In fact, this former emphasis on the Independence Party, on the merits of the private enterprise, does not see in many areas in the government covenant, or in the government's activities in the event of that. It's something, something remarkable, preferably the highest. Minister of state that uses the benefits of the private enterprise by an agreement with privates, e.g. The employment community, on specific projects and specific advice that are involved in promoting foreign trade services. However, this is a cause for joy because it is important to look to and trust private people to come to the table. It simply requires careful action. It's a good closing statement here, knowing that the State Review Report is important to the emphasis more people have had during the past few years, an appeal to the health authorities to be careful. This is not to be translated out of work because we are no longer allowed to do so. They need courage and effort, and that's where we're ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u28	Mr. President. We'll discuss a report on the National Review. In many respects, this is a very interesting report. I have declared it in public for this discussion that, really, the results of this report are not surprising to me. I think it's the main outcome of the report that Iceland's health insurance doesn't really have that equipment, and we'll say the professional knowledge that it takes to make them contracts and to develop the role that she's supposed to have. In addition, the results of this report are very clear, that since we have not really had clear health policy for a very long time in this country, Iceland's health insurance may be making it even more difficult to fulfill this role. Just a little bit more on health insurance. Iceland's Medical Insurance Act No. 112/2008 explain or define well the role of Medical Security. I was at the time skeptical about the equipment that that that the institution received in the womb, let's say, was sufficient, and I wasn't fully convinced, and is actually not yet that the arrangement we decided was the best way to make sure that the state or the government receive at any given time the most favorable ◯ switch which could be obtained at a health care agency. I've always felt that the spirit behind the law and spirit that created this discussion, creating that there was a law on Iceland's health insurance that actually went a little bit from the fact that medical services were like any other service, traders, and sealers'role in a health - care market, just like shopping and segregators everywhere else. We know it's not, I think it's safe to say it here in a speech chair. This isn't the standard market for buyers and seal trades. Rather, the sellers of the ministry are almost always in superior positions, on the one hand, because of the nature of the goods they sell, and because of the knowledge they have on the product that a buyer cannot always have. For the buyer to have this knowledge, there must be a great deal of knowledge in the institution to play the business, i.e. With health insurance, and that's not it. We haven't made it like that. The report also involves a lack of health policy. Now I'm asking why. Councilmen and think only of: How many health ministers have been in the past ten years? Seven or eight? Is it likely when the Ministry of Health is replaced as often as has been done when some collective policy comes out of the Ministry? The last medical programme adopted at the council was in 2010; it was actually not approved until May 2001, but it went to 2010. I know that plan well because I was one of the people who helped, and I put in a small amount of material in that report at the time. It was fine, but of course it was, or they were expecting at least to that second plan would replace that schedule for the next ten years. Now we have eight years of these for the next ten years since our last schedule, so we have run quite a bit. How happy we are to hear the greatest response! Minister on this report. She has declared that she is going to take her very seriously. She is going to use this report as a tool for improving her ability to tailor properly and a new health policy that deals with the issues mentioned in the report. That, too, can be wondered. Councilmen, whether this alleged lack of policy as indicated by the report does not reflect a certain willingness to interfere with the health system and thereby a willingness to praise the system to develop in some particular direction, a bit unsolvable. I'm at least. the opinion that it is the health authority's responsibility at any given time to keep it relatively tight when we consider the direction of the health system. In this regard, the report might be said to suggest that this was not really done to a sufficient extent. I return to what I said at the outset, there have been quite a number of health ministers. There may not have been always a change in policy when a new health minister arrives, but we know that different people see things differently. I'd like to mention one thing in this report. This is especially done in negotiations with two health institutions. It's so enjoyable that they're both in the district of what it says here, i.e. Krysavík and Smokeloaf. There's been a little talk about Krysavík in this discussion, so I'm going to focusra on Smokeloaf. I have the feeling that a report by the State Review Centre will determine the services provided in different medical institutions that provide rehabilitation. But those of us who have either served in this sector or have studied these matters know that there is a fundamental difference. A smokeloaf that is somewhat criticized in this report is, in fact, a major health - care institution and is in many respects the only agency to provide a specific rehabilitational service. Of course, it is possible to wonder whether such an institution was by far the most necessary, since the business is almost entirely financed by government contributions. Of course they know what they're doing. Council members of the European Union's Institute for Disease Control on Smoke, and all the beautiful history that is behind it. However, the report reports that in many other parts of the system, there is a comparable service to that of a smoker, but it is not. I'd like to finally make the most of it. To make good use of this report, to take out the fine tips there, to support its institutions in following them, and, if necessary, to put into the budget when it comes to the next budget to provide the funds needed to fulfill the needs of these institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u29	Mr. President. The results of the Re-examination in the report discussed here are clear and decisive. This is good, for it is not possible in any way to get the wrong points in my view. The tips are very important, and it is also very important that a firm improvement is made. The lack of policy in the last few years of health care is beginning to take a heavy toll on services to the public and, in effect, undermines the overall lack of policy. Government review calls for policies, as the law expects, and the health system is all below them. As more public speakers have gathered during the discussion, sales of Iceland's health insurance have largely been influenced by the emphasis on budgets, temporary initiatives, and solutions from intercurrent problems. Under such conditions, health insurance has been a policy for the development and development of the health system. In the United States, we've noted it many times in recent years, and in four councils, we have proposed a bill for changing the law on Iceland's Medical Insurance. The bill has not received a sound base, but it is a request for the same thing as the National Reconnaissance in its report, a request that it be the World Council that makes policy decisions about the health system. The purpose of the bill of the United Nations, which is now waiting for payment on a fourth welfare committee, is that a minister has explained the authority of the democratic elected representatives of the nation at one time to negotiate with a private member of the management board of the important basics of the health system. Privately, a minister can make policy decisions for the health system without having to carry them for the council or leave Iceland's health insurance under the cover of a policy that can be determined by his service agreement with non-ICUd health care. Too often it is health - care merchants who define the needs, not the buyer, the state itself, for the common people. It has to stop. According to the United Nations, it will not be a pleasure to bring more and more of the basic welfare system into private business, as has been done over the past few years, and it is well presented in the National Reexamination report that, in our view, a large part of the country's willingness to show respect for basic services, such as health services, will be granted by the government. When a service contract is made, it must be ensured that private agents do not trajectory in their agreements with the government in order to receive their payment without shouldering comparable obligations to those of the public. According to many scholars, private health care is more important than reducing the cost, due to high administrative costs, increased monitoring costs, inflexible contracts, and incoherent and uninterrupted services. We equals men also want to make sure that all the people of the country have constant access to the service and that the patient's payment will be kept to a minimum. By means of the United Nations bill, this change is also proposed at 40 st. the management of health insurance that in the agreement for health care, the exchange of profits made in the management of the private sector should be specifically required. On the contract, including the It should be noted that the individual is forbidden to pay interest to his owners. Hence, the provision of this law is an unreserved prohibition on interest when making contracts for health care and must also be allowed to discuss how the profits are made otherwise. The tax to be used by the World Health Organization decided by the General Assembly to be used. If private management is supported by tax money, the amount of money available for investment in the business should be used, thereby increasing the quality of the service, improving patient management and working conditions and education of employees, and contributing to better health care services that use public funds in a responsible manner. The patient's interests are always in charge. We also stress that when health policy is attacked, there will be a clear policy on expert services for the inhabitants of the country. It is unacceptable to extend only the services that the private part of the network sees to be afforded outside the capital area at this time. Mr. President. Finally, I would like to agree with the words of the coronator Guðjónsson, whose name was the highest. Minister of the United States for the support of the difficult task ahead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u30	Mr. President. I'm going to start by saying some claims about our health - care system. There is a lack of investment in the infrastructure, the lack of money, and the lack of the service, and the maintenance of financial resources to the country's most important organization, the Land Hospital, a time error that increases the problem of the hospital and the system as a whole. I'm telling you, money is wasted because of a lack of organization that's rich, and I'll face the challenge. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, who may know the Icelandic medical system better than most of us here, is about time for a complete, long - term, long - term health policy. We are suing by the fact that there have been too many health ministers, with full respect for all those seated in that chair, and thus the harmony and vision have not become what we want. We can deal with it, but we certainly need to maintain a view of the future. I'm sure it's the highest. The current health minister has a good deal of time ahead to set the course in the years to come and in the long future. During discussions about Iceland's Medical Insurance, I think it's necessary to keep in mind what ideologies are behind them. Of course, it is to ensure that the financial support of patients and, instead, that the government's payments for health care are in harmony with the services provided. We want the needs of the health insurance we all are, the public in Iceland, to be always first. This rule should apply to individual healthcare professionals as well as to the health institutions that the State directly runs. We're supposed to keep this without business. This requires that we clearly define the service and rights of the patient, the health insurance rights. This is essential for our having a meaningful and complete ministry, for us to set priorities, and for us to give progressive financial support to where we want it to go, and for what we want it to be useful, and for what results. Government reviews show the importance of achieving a targeted and national health - care fee with its contracts. There is a need to revise the structure of the contract arrangement for buying the services of specialist doctors outside hospitals. It is also encouraged to investigate whether it is possible for the Agency to negotiate the services of each member by providing specifications that take into account the needs of health care professionals, health - care secretary's policies and the standards of the surgeon's office. It's all very important tips, but at the same time I want to draw attention to what a state accountant says, i.e. to require that health insurance continue to develop the Agency's agreement with the National Hospital on production-related funding for a clinical service. It is a great privilege to work that the contract will be used to maximise the effectiveness and efficiency of the hospital as one of our main provisions for good health, which, in spite of all the better things known in the world, although the faults are at hand. I've been talking about it for a long time, and I'm not the only one who has to make better decisions and funding when it comes to Iceland's National Hospital. We have to disappear from the ideologies of having Iceland's Land Hospital on a regular budget. Further agreements with the Land Hospital should be made on the basis of work done, the clinical service. Work-related funding, we can call it. It is a ide that money should follow a patient and the service that needs to be rendered to him. I think we'll never achieve real success until we make sure that this works in this way, that we will be working as the Landsituologist has actually been done, that he has been developing a so-called process system, DRG cost analysis systems, and we have largely to finance the Land Hospital from contracts between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the Land Hospital, under the prescripts placed in the health Minister's policies of each of his own. Last week I called attention to what such funding can do, and a change in financing can do for medical services. I then referred to a report published by the State Radio and was interviewed by the medical director of the Health Care Center of the capital, Reykdalsson Smokedalsson, where he pointed out the results of a new arrangement for the funding of health care facilities. They will be paid according to the number of individuals registered at the medical facility, and other demographic factors that are burdensome for health care will be considered accordingly. As a result, we have seen a waiting period in the health care of the capital area being reduced from approximately Four weeks a week, even less than that. We can be similarly effective in other fields of health care if we follow the formula that the State accountant actually points out that it is urgent to continue developing and that we should take it seriously. I think it is true that we finance health care, of course, we must meet some common understanding of the project. I think it's necessary that we stop asking, "Who's going to do what? I think we are going to ask, " What are we going to do, and why? ' Above all, I think we need to develop a health - care standard that is different from that of the one who often wants us to use, which is the money we put into our medical system. The financial value such as this does not indicate the quality of our service or how we use our money. I'm going to be able to quote Dr. Ásgeir Jónsson, post office and head office economist of Iceland's University of Economics, who was on a radio interview in an explosion just before the last Christmas, where he said, with the permission of a president: ▪ What we always talk about is how much money we spend on health care. There are bad standards, because there are countries that spend a lot of money on their health systems, such as the United States, but still have bad systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for this review today of the National Reexamination of Iceland's Medical Insurance as Buyer of Health Care. This is a fairly large report, but I would like to take out and highlight some points facing the country. It shows that there is insufficient expert service. That alone is a shocking fact. The Ramma Convention seems to be more effective for expert physicians in the capital area than for those going out into the country. In this regard, I wondered, " Is it a little late? Is it hard to get doctors to work in the country?'And we know it's difficult. I wondered if people just don't live up to themselves. Then I'm going to come to another point I read there. Could it be true that people simply give up and move to the capital area? It can be read between the lines of the report. At that time, they will be making great use of their health - care providers. In fact, the report considers whether a person uses his ministry abnormally. I find that a significant and important point to consider is that people in Eastern, Western, and Western lands have little to do with health care. I think it's very serious. I'm going to end those words. There's obviously work to do. The report and the criticism there are excellent reasons for how you can do better. We all have to lie down on our oars. I encourage the health minister to perform that task.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u32	A respectable president. Here's a report by the National Reexamination of Iceland's Medical Insurance as Buyer of Health Services. The report reports that measures are needed to improve Iceland's health - care contracts. According to Government Review, these contracts have generally ensured a targeted health - care purchase of the State. There can also be any doubt that the contracts are practical in all cases or that they will contribute to the improved effectiveness of the entire health system. The report directs the Ministry of Health that health care policies should be set and that health care agencies operate in a consistent manner toward its objectives. V.E.G. A health minister entered this point earlier in his speech and is evidently aware that a lack of policy is very expensive to society. Such policies need to explain the services of health institutions and the services to be purchased by other sources. The lack of policy that identifies the group has led to highlighting the individual budget, temporary action projects, and the release of intercurrent problems has shaped decisions on health care negotiations and, therefore, the development of the system as a whole. It is also directed to the Ministry to ensure proper negotiations in making contracts. The Ministry of Health has been known to negotiate without access to health insurance or to set one - sided grounds for it. According to Public Review, this is abnormal. At the same time, the necessary knowledge of health insurance needs to be enhanced and the ability to care for diagnostics, to work on contracts, and to monitor their implementation. There have been cases where treaties for health insurance have not been used for adequate analysis of needs, costs, and benefits. At that time, treaties have been made that do not clearly state the extent, quality, or equal access of the country. According to Public Review, a broad framework of agreements is a factor in the targeted and practical purchase of health care. Therefore, it is encouraged to evaluate the benefits of negotiating about unique services. They believe that the National Relations Act insists on the development of a new national health insurance contract for production-related funding to maximise the effectiveness and efficiency of the hospital. A respectable president. Recently, I had a conversation with the highest. Healthcare Minister for the matter of health policy in question period here at the General Assembly. That's where I talked, even. how important it is to start policy in such important health issues. This is important not only for public health but also for the better health care that we want to have but also for the good financial programs we want to keep. I would also like to agree with the words of a health minister when she spoke of the need for the General and the committee to follow this report, even calling in visitors to follow it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u33	Mr. President. First, thank you for a careful discussion of this report and the report itself, which in many respects is very helpful in the discussion ahead. To make a long story short, I believe that one of the main factors is the conclusion of the report. We need to shape our medical policies. They are responsible for the highest responsibility. The health minister and the council. I think it's important to bear in mind that in view of the recent changes in health counsellors in recent years, it is important to create a parapolitic field in such policies, and I think that it is actually healthy in the long term that it is. You see, we need to discuss much more aspects of health care than we do in shape. Sadly, we have been most concerned with how we provide health care rather than with what health care we provide. That's the difference. This has been pointed out in a number of reports. Mckinsey has discussed this matter and spoke of lack of coordination and overall policy development. A government review will do the same thing as the surgeon has repeatedly noted that the health - care problem will be solved not only with increased funding but will improve organization and this is key. Outside of this organization, we must maintain these policies. There must be the main measure, that we provide quality health services in the health system in the most efficient way we can provide the country's excellent health - care systems, the leading health systems. Qualification, efficiency, and quality must come first. Then we can deal with how we can use different forms of management. It is quite clear that private health care can be properly available in the medical system as long as the services are served and supported by the public, but the goal to be that the State is to employ itself as a reasonable health care provider in order to ensure quality, content, and efficiency of the system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Surely, then, we can cultivate solidarity.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u34	A respectable president. I want to thank you for a very good discussion, and I think we might be trying to clear up a path for more of us taking Kingdom Accounting reports for discussion here in the Hall. I think it will be good to keep them not only locked up in committees but also keep them up for this kind of open, because there is often an enormously good work there, which is reason to continue in the discussion about the integrity of the council and policy. I also want to thank you for the fact that I think this discussion gives me a very good promise that we can try to get a transpolitic approach to this project. I would particularly like to thank you for the fine words of a representative of the opposing parties in the subject and the professional content that has been in this discussion. Of course, there are certain abnormalities that are highlighted by the individual representatives, but I still feel that we have some basic tone that I think we can agree on, which may be first of all about quality, balance and responsible provision of public funds that I think are completely accessive, and that we can agree that the quality of health care is not just the state's spending at any given time but that they are more and more complex. That's the way it's supposed to be. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson spoke of analyses that are behind decisions, and I think it's very important to maintain it, which requires long-term policy and also, what should I say, a certain political continuation. We've had a lot of fluctuations in the health secretary's seat over time but to maintain a firm analysis, i.e. for analysis to be the basis for decisions, we need to have political endurance in the face of immediate quick solutions, and that we disappear from being reflected in the budget of the time or some immediate action, as indicated in a report by the National Review that it has been all too common. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen talked about the payment system, and that did it. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, too, about the funding system at the health care of the capital area, which stands to import into the national health care department, and I think it's definitely for the benefit. Hv. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Colbömnadóttir mentioned the national basis and the lack of a steady relationship between bioavailability and national expert services on the other hand and the capital area. A respectable president. I can't respond to all the comments here on the discussion. I assure the U.S. Congress that I will keep all of them in their next steps in the work ahead, thanking again and again the council and those who have participated in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u35	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill for the legislation on the prohibition on specific performance and medicinal products. The bill was recommended for the same subject at the 146th legislature, and then it went to the welfare committee after the year 1st. I couldn't do it. The proposal that the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Marketing Authorisation, attacked the bill, is a range of tips received from police, customs, and the National Institutes of Development and Olympic Associations of Iceland that it would require total legislation on certain materials and medicinal products used in order to improve the physical performance of individuals, especially in competitive sports. These materials are better known under the foreign term ◯doping, by permission of a president. It is thought that the illegal import of the above substances and the inducing of the medicinal products listed above would require a reduction in their availability, since it is well known that its use may adversely affect human health. Known effects include e.g. tendon and muscle injury, increased cardiovascular risk, increased incidence of cancer and liver injury. The bill has some of the stuff and drugs that hear under the values of the law. These include implanting steroids, testosterone and derivatives, as well as equivalent agents with a male hormone effect, growth hormone as well as natural erythropoietin and substances that have comparable effects by increasing red blood cell levels beyond normal levels before age and gender. Under the law, the substances that increase the production and release of growth hormone, testosterone and its derivatives or equivalents are also found with the male hormone effect and natural erythropoietin. According to the bill, import, import, sale, sale, exchange, extension, receptor, production and possession of the above materials will be prohibited and prohibited in the European Union. However, the European Medicines Agency will be able to issue such a ban, but such restrictions would always be repealed. The bill does not cover materials and medicinal products authorised by the National Competent Authority for prescribing and use in health care or for scientific studies. In this case, the National Competent Authority does not include authorised medicinal products or medicinal products authorised by the National Competent Authority. Draws out that the original bill was sent in a narrative process and received reviews from the surgeon's office and Iceland's Olympian Association, but the bill was sent to the Agency for a specific review and worked in cooperation with the Agency. Much of the evidence was taken into account. Preparation of the bill presented here took into account the changes made in the World Health Committee's Committee on the Springs of the Last Year. In that respect, the importance of avoiding consumers was considered to be not punishable and the limit to the degree to which they should be affected. At that time, it was considered normal to aim for ten daily doses. The change is not accepted at this time in this bill, especially since the definition of the daily dose is not available, which may vary according to the kind of substance and medicinal product and the physical characteristics of the person who consumes the substances or medications. The change, however, is also suggested to ensure instruction on the effects of these substances and medicinal products and on other preventive measures in this area. Assessment of the impact of the bill on the state funds has been carried out and cannot be seen to see that its legal fixation, will remain by law, resulting in increased expenses for state funds. An equal estimate of the bill was made to examine its potential effect on gender equality. No gender data are available on the group and therefore further diagnostics are needed to identify the sex status in the area of the bill and whether such effects are involved. A respectable president. I have now explained the principles of the bill and have allowed myself to suggest that, following this discussion, I would refer to the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u36	Madam President. I have a very short question, I doubt that I will use the entire speech period in it. The bill's report shows that the bill will affect only those involved in illegal import, import, sale, sale, exchange, delivery, receipt, manufacture, treatment and possession of the above products, but not consumers. I think it's strange to have it together, so I ask it the highest. Minister: If you are currently taking any possessions or medications, you have them on you. It's a prevention. If that's really what it is, it wants to be the highest. Ministers that consumers will not be punished, how does this bill actually prevent that?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u37	A respectable president. This is about the use of natural product protection or prevention, which is only if the person has one authority or plans to use prohibited materials or prohibiting a method in the area where the product is prohibited, if the method was available, means that if the person does not have the sole authority over the forbidden material or prohibited a prohibited method, or where this material or method is present, it is intended only for the person to be protected from the existence of the forbidden material, or prohibited, and intended to have control over it. This is the definition of protection in the medical law of the ISI; however, provided that no drug abuse is restricted to possession, it is stated in the same legislation, if prior to the notice that the person has broken a drug rule, the individual has shown by his behaviour that he is not going to possess and does not recognize it, and specifically informs the Pharmacovigilance. Despite what else is stated in this definition, the purchase of prohibited materials or the prohibition of the buying person is considered forbidden. According to this definition, steroids found in a athlete's car are found unless the athlete shows that someone else used the car. In that case, the FDA must show that although the athlete does not have total control over the car, he knew about the drivers and intended to control them. This definition of possession is available and has been used in the requested medical legislation of the ISI. This is referred to in the bill discussed here, but I believe it is important that the committee discuss this feature in the event of an issue. A senator sees the need as he is chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u38	President. Yes, thank you for that answer. I have to admit that I'm not quite sure that I understood this, and I'm just a chance to look into it and learn about it. But just so I get it straight, does this mean that if the person taking the substances or the medicine is taken with them in his pocket and there's no consumer dose defined as a license to consume, if he has the drugs or the chemicals in his pocket walking, it's not broken according to this bill? Just to make it clear, because I think it's really important, that we're not going to use it the same way that's under the drug law, that they're being punished.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u39	A respectable president. I understand why. A senator did not understand the answer. I did not realize for myself what I was saying in chapters. On the other hand, I think it's good to approach this discussion from the other side. The bill unit is not punishing consumers. As shown in a bill report, this will affect only those involved in illegal import, etc. But why daily doses are not listed in the bill - that is because if the consumers are not to be punished, they would be large, i.e. The cylindrices, easily falling into the border, since their consumption may be a hundred times the daily dose of someone else. Therefore, the attempt to approach an acceptable dose, or daily dose, was turned away. But I realize that this can be difficult for someone, but it's time to call out to those by law, both toll authorities and the police, as well as to those who are looking for legal advice in the countries around us, where this approach has given a good start, and to try to find out if it's considered. A senator asks here about causing trouble somewhere in the act of the law. If not, we should be able to take the same route here on the land as in the countries around us. I believe that there is good reason to pay attention to the efforts of customs and police to inform authorities because they also need to know what not to do with them, as well as what must be under the hat of the law. The same is true of ISI's emphasis on these matters. These are people that I think are important to us that we listen to and listen to. For this purpose, this bill is submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u40	President. As shown in the case of the highest. A minister was the bill that we have already proposed to the 146th legislature Council. The objective of the bill according to Article 1. is to prevent the use of certain substances and medicines in order to improve physical performance so that use of them does not harm people's health. It's a very good goal, but I have to mention that I think it's a strange idea to plan to prevent the treatment and use of these chemicals from damaging people's health by forbidding them and making them punished by keeping the materials in their possession, as if forbidding the materials will make people stop using them. To believe that ban policy prevents health damage is an old - fashioned and out - of - date approach on a very complex subject. The law's aim is also to promote education and prevention, as well as to prevent illegal marketing of such substances and drugs. This aim is to be celebrated, and it is a great improvement from the bill laid out at the last legislation. For education and prevention, the key is to the damage to which we as modern lawgivers should work. In the matter of welfare committee handling the case of the 146th Parliament, the very best weapon against the use of these materials was likely to be preventive. The bill's report shows that the bill will affect only those involved in illegal import, import, sale, sale, exchange, delivery, receipt, manufacture, treatment and possession of the above products, but not consumers. Like I talked to the highest. A minister before me would rather be a dishonest approach if they were to start punishing people with some kind of dose, and it says in the paper that they should not punish these agents. This is something that needs careful consideration, making sure that this does not contain such. The use of these drugs may be considered as a matter of course, so it is clear that according to the Law text, as far as I understood, it is fully authorized to punish consumers with prisons up to two years, but I may need to take a closer look at it. The report also shows that at the work of the National Social Services Committee at the 146th Court, the Committee discussed some of the importance of defenses of consumer consumption without being punished and what limits to criminal sensitivity should be used. The commission then considered it normal to set that goal at ten daily doses and suggested that the protection and the handling of materials and the medication provided by the bill would not be punished unless the kept amount of material exceeded ten daily doses. This change is not suggested in the requested bill, primarily because the definition of the daily dose is not available. This is because the daily dose may vary considerably according to the type of chemical or medicinal product as well as the physical condition of the person who drinks the labelled substance or medicinal product. I now participated in this quality committee work during the last terms, and I thought that a variable daily dose should not be forced to prevent this important step in trying to harm a reduction, i.e. moving us from the policy of punishing consumers in helping them. We can easily define consumer dosages based on an average way of starting and then see if that is a proper definition. It should always be possible to change and correct things if that is not possible. This would be a step in the right direction, rather than any decline this bill seems to involve, because the bill is clear, whatever is stated in the report: Protection and Management of Products and Medicinal Products shall be prohibited in the Icelandic Presidency. In Comb 4. The bill on penalties says, by permission of the President. It has to do with fines or prisons up to two years, with greater punishments against violations under other laws, violating the regulations of these laws, and following the events of a regulations set on the basis of them. The above actions should be punished with prison punishment up to two years. The distribution of the medicinal products mentioned is in accordance with local prescriptions for which violations of the law are to be punished in fines and prisons up to two years, so that the proposed change seems to have the primary effect not only on drug distribution but also on protection and treatment. Would be bringing a penalty warrant for consumers into law. Thus, these drugs and substances are put under the same hat as drugs, allowing consumers to be punished in the same way that the law on addictive drugs does. President. Like my colleague, huh? paritaprevir In the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, a special discussion on the possession of drug abuse was made with the permission of a president: ▪ People go on record for drug abuse. It gets very high tickets. It is under attack by the authorities. That's the best. In view of the fact that an overall review of the substance - abuse laws has been under stress, a health minister will take a similar approach with drugs and drugs, and the use of substance substance use was particularly serious in view of the fact that a total re-evaluation of the drug law has been initiated as it emphasised the disappearance of the drug - related penalty policy. Why? Yes, because time and experience have revealed that criminalism is harmful. We must learn from experience. Although the nature of these substances and drugs is somewhat different from what is discussed in the law on addiction and drugs, they have many things in common. Misuse of chemicals such as steroids has been a sustained concern. The association of amateurs with alcohol and drug abuse has offered treatment for those who abuse steroids, but many of those who abuse them are going to be trapped in their use, thus forming an addiction to drugs, even though they do not fall under the usual definition of drugs. Thus, by setting up a policy to punish consumers, they are being brought into the same group as those who abuse drugs. Most have now come to realize that the success of using drugs in this country has not been the result of a reduction in drug abuse. It may therefore be asked, " What goal should this bill achieve, and how will the increased penalty for consumers reduce the health damage caused by the chemicals? ' As noted in a panel of my parts at the 146th Commission, it is critical that the implementation of the bill did not provide a complete analysis of the need for legislation on these topics. It is unclear how the bill will affect the group and what the risks are with increased punishment. There are, for example, the risks that by force of law enforcement, the manufacture and distribution of substances will be increased to those selling illegal drugs. This could have the effect of increasing the conflict of those who produce, sell, and consume the materials as the economy is strengthened. There is a great need for policies on the use of illegal substances to reduce the health of individuals and social damage caused by their consumption. Enforcement of increased penalties without a prior diagnosis is irresponsible and shows unprofessional practices on the health and lives of individuals who engage in illegal activities. The war Iceland faced with drug abuse with the hope of drug-free Iceland is long lost and its members now recognize that prevention and education are far more powerful instruments than criminal policies and established legislation. So it would be best to use this opportunity to take our first step in a real injury reduction with this bill. Since there seems to be a problem with definition of consumer dosages, we should take the initiative and just do so, identify averages, define consumers, and disappears from punishing consumers. We know that it does not work; it reduces, not consumption, but perimeters of people who suffer from consumer problems that conflict with global trends. Let us not be like those nations who put human rights first in their lives rather than out - of - date bans that bring nothing. Instead of constantly hacking into the same routine, think about humane solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u41	Mr. President. We're here on bill for the legislation on the prohibition on specific performance and medicinal products. I present my pleasure with the bill. I think it's important, I think it's time for things to work out. As we've been tore up here, it's been submitted before, but it wasn't finished. This has long become a big problem, especially in certain sports sectors. Unfortunately, we hear too often when people fail the tests. This is not just for men; unfortunately, it is also true of women. Women's consumption of these materials has increased. I'm sure we need to deal with this. It's also good to see that according to Article 5. If there are other substances or medicines not mentioned in the bill, a minister may decide by regulations to add to this category. I think it's good. When you know the consequences of mishandling and misuse of steroids or other substances, you are aware of the need to set legislation that tries to inhibit the import and illegal sale, to address the problem in some way. I don't know if the law can handle it by itself, but it's at least An attempt to hold these products, to stop this import, to have a clear legal frame behind them. The past and now we were discussing imprisonment or fines, whether such things were right, successful, or not, or whether we could be moved more towards reform. I think most of us agree that correction is a better option than jail and should be a larger part of the punishment system. In every case, imprisonment is not unwise, I don't know if it is in this case or not, it's always a question of what will be involved in preventing people from breaking the law, what has to happen to make you decide not to take the chance. I don't know if this is the right approach, but it's one of the services of a health committee to review it there. Although steroid use has been permitted long ago, we see the consequences of prolonged steroid use in adults right now. You know the psychiatric effects, the Manic symptoms during consumption, the depression manifested by these reactions apart from many other factors resulting in such abuse as other abuses. I'm going to reiterate that I'm happy that this bill has come out. I really hope that it will control what it's supposed to do, to help limit the import of illegal material, to make such materials easier to confiscate, and to reduce its ability to take a chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u42	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion, although she was not very thorough and thanking for the support of my sister and the head of a platoon of greener people, but I find it worse. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen has left the councilroom. Here there were several Pirata members who were very involved in the activities of the Council earlier today and talked about an improved culture at the General Assembly. I experienced sitting here at the Ministerial Class after reviewing a relatively simple case that has had considerable support at the General Assembly, that words such as, first of all, were old - fashioned, which may be just an attitude and nothing to consider, but then words like dishonest words were used. Finally, words were used as if the matter were both irresponsible and unprofessional. I must, most respectable president, pray for it. Councilmen, I'm not talking about the heads of professional committees and Generals, who are expected to take the case for material and professional coverage, do not fall into the pit to discuss such matters with embezzlement, labeling out and south. I don't want to worry about 1st. A Senate hearing that I am given as a health minister does not allow the matter to be discussed on a Senate committee because of the urgency of the situation. The head of the committee has a view on the matter that it is based on dishonesty and lack of responsibility and professionalism. I hope that the matter will be discussed in a material way on the Committee and that it will be prepared objectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u43	A respectable president. I have to replace my associate in Piranha and simply assure the Minister that what I know is the reason. Halldóra Mogensen's contemporaneous woman will take this matter away from her own opinion of it. She has done so with many other matters that she does not necessarily appreciate. She has considered this to be her part, and she has discussed it with those here taking the lead in administering affairs of government as well as at the proper time. Parliamentaries of professional treatment. All I wanted was to assure the minister of his opinion. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen will not take over her case at the moment. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir for making sure of this, but I'd like again and again, all of us, senators, to be careful with words. That's what I'm talking about. The members of Smári Mccarthy and Hrafn Gunnarsson 'tirs had a lot to do earlier today, that we needed to be careful to keep our arguments straight and to discuss matters from its content, not with their stamps. I trust to hear it. A member of Parliament and the Council of Porta's chairman is involved in this subject and that the matter is being discussed in a material way by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u45	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a cruise protection law, No. 50/2004, and air travel law, No. 60/1998. The bill was previously submitted to the 143th legislature and is now reassigned to the changed format taking into account the comments observed by the Environment and Transport Committee during the previous pay period. The bill suggests that changes in the above two law columns, mainly due to repeated burglary in the air protection and marine protection area, but also to improve safety and effectiveness in implementing the law on policy management. The primary objective of the bill is to reduce attempted burglary in the air - control area of air traffic control and air - control systems. It is suggested that the law clearly forbids entry into such areas, except by the appropriate authority on the prescribed penalty. It is clear that this poses a threat to safety and, especially, the use of flights and navigation protection when people come into the affected area. How vital it is, then, that such violations be handled in a clear way in our legislation. Then it is suggested that the punishment for burglary on a funeral mission and that a ship be coordinated to the point where there is a similar offense. However, it is suggested that the penalty for the plane crash be more severe, in view of the nature of flying activity and the threat to flight passengers, as is the worst fracture in the area of September 11, 2001. Clearly, even more serious offenses are also involved in the use of general penalties, so it may be more severe to be punished on the basis of their laws. This is shown in a paper that follows the bill. One of the objectives of the bill is to validate the activities that have been carried out in the treatment of a walking agency, formerly Iceland's Sigling agency, and a follow-up to those under the shipping laws. This is why the Agency is authorized to resort to alternatives to its surveillance obligations, i.e. Instead of the sole treatment against such authorities as fines or prisons for two years, a ticket and a day's fine. Such measures are considered more targeted for the Agency, enabling them to perform their surveillance work by law. Is this also followed and, among other things, by ESAs, the EFTA monitoring facility, which has faced specific indications and comments on the lack of resources of the Agency to enforce legal requirements for monitoring activities. At the same time, the bill calls for the permission of a CA to commit a government ticket if he was guilty of an account on an airport and thus violates the required duties on which it rests on the basis of permission. In accordance with local laws, it is only permitted to bring such cases into the course of judicial treatment where the penalty is fine or incarcerated up to five years. The change currently includes the permission of a Grouping Office to take a smaller course and to fine the individual or to disbar the source, the airport driver did not immediately take that action. A respectable president. In addition, to improve clarity, there are adjustments to the guidelines for background checks, as I initially came on the basis of air travel laws and marine protection laws. In terms of air travel and marine protection laws, the bill does not include any physical change to a small extent. The changes are thus primarily to the simplicity of the recent process and, in fact, for many years. In terms of permission to background checks based on air travel laws, it is suggested that the format of the directive be made clearer and added to police sources for the benefit of data on an individual subject subject subject subject who undergoes such background checks. For one reason that it is considered important to contribute these changes to the law, the Perconte protection decision is given by the back - eye flight crew. The purpose of the change is, in particular, to respond to and follow repeated indications, while taking into account international requirements. Special emphasis, as in Icelandic legislation in general, is laid on the fact that objective viewpoints are always fundamental to police decisions on individual releases and that moderate delinquency is maintained. At the same time, it is suggested that the Marine Protection Act should be made in a much clearer and more definitive manner than according to current legislation. The proper procedure for air travel was considered in the application of that law. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill, and I suggest that at the end of this discussion it will be treated and referred to as follows. Environmental and transport committees and later through 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u46	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to Fifth. The bill that has a criminal warrant for stowaways; whether it is above average to weigh the penalty for sneaking aboard a ship, especially to this most vulnerable group, who are trying to reach another destination. Usually this is because there has been no particular hospitality in the United States, let us say, to the individual that they are trying to get further. We have just experienced cases where a fugitive who tried to get out of the country was thrown into the prison, beaten to death, and sent abroad. I ask myself, " Is this law a sign of increased toughness in the way we treat refugees, the methods they use to get to safety from war? ' So I would like to ask a minister if he could use a less sensitive way of dealing with these factors rather than add to the penalty that is in these behaviors, e.g. with some form of cooperation with the Red Cross of Iceland or something like that; whether this is mostly excessive when it comes to this group of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u47	A respectable president. Section 5. Of course, it is not only about stowaways but about all those who break into these areas or who are not authorized to enter. The fact is, other countries work very hard if a stowaway person is found on board a ship, for example, and this could have a significant impact, not just on the ships, but on all the exports of Iceland or airports, but on them repeatedly. For one thing, we are responding to indications that our rules are not clear enough and that it is important to be clear and consistent between air travel and sea travel. There are great interests at stake. You're right about what you're doing. There has been a case with a member of the council, and this case is being made available in a certain way. Of course, it is necessary for the committee to consider thoroughly whether this is not in accordance with the international profile we would like to follow, and that it has been taken into account from the initiative in the first time. It was mostly about background information, but here it is. I believe that the bill that it now looks like the rules and penalties that humans have in nearby lands is that we are not going anywhere further and not at all for any particular reason or for certain groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u48	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I just wanted to introduce to you that there might be a possibility that some kind of distress or difficulty in the person's condition might result in a decrease in punishment. Maybe there's enough penalties, low to high, but I think it might be taken into consideration. As far as the countries around us are doing this, I have no doubt about the words of a minister in that regard. But I can also say that the countries around us are not particularly hospitable to refugees; it is not a simple life to be such; it is not lawful to travel legally and to resort to extremes. I don't think the national courts would accept something called emergency prevention in these matters simply because of the way these cases work in praxize. But at least I would appreciate it if a minister would consider whether in some way this group could be taken into consideration. Obviously there are some types of stowaways, although I may not have heard from other examples but just because these are refugees who are trying to get out of Iceland because of their situation in this country or because they think they can find safer shelter elsewhere. I wonder at the end of my second answer to the question: "Is there any way that a minister can't meet this group?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u49	A respectable president. I would like to reiterate my earlier comments that under the material treatment of the committee, this will be considered in particular. This may result in a judge's valuing what the penalty is, especially if it is the group that is in the community. In addition, there is repeated evidence that there are both grammatical reasons for dealing with offenses and that a person might take a moderate degree of punishment accordingly. I want to finally admit that this is a serious matter involving the enormous interest of all exports and Iceland's concept of monitoring; that we trust a hundred percent, when ships and flights happen in other countries, that in Iceland, we stand our ground, exactly the same as in other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u50	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story of the bill of a change in marine protection laws and air travel laws. In particular, there are two things that I believe are important to discuss here in a talk chair and to conduct in this discussion before discussing the matter. These are the points discussed at the convention of the Left Motion, where we took care of the matter in our council, on the one hand, as a background check. I can see from background observations that have been responded to indications, including From personal protection, where they were thought to be gone too far, as the bill looked when it was submitted to a number of victims. But I think it's important. However, the Environment and Transport Committee was particularly involved in this role and again discussing the protection of the character. Even if comments have been made, this does not mean that there has been enough work to be done, and I believe that this is a subject for research. Name of the rich. I want her to take this matter to the limit. However, I would like to mention what was also discussed in reply earlier, i.e. what concerns stowaways. I realize that it can just be dangerous when it's being broken into an area, I don't talk about it when it's over. That is why, in fact, it is only natural for me to think that, unlike a series of punishments, it is already when it comes to what is involved in sailing protection on the other side and on the other side of the flight. Now we have an example of those who have been trying to get out of the country, and I think there's a possibility that they weren't breaking in for good or trying to get something. They are simply trapped and are trying to get out of the country. I'm glad the minister answered that he thought it was something. The Committee should review, and I think it is absolutely necessary and would like to direct it to the point. The Environment and Transport Committee should discuss this matter specifically with the Red Cross because it has had a great deal to do and is familiar with such examples. I feel that the General should really look at the circumstances and see if there are some kind of milder form of punishment or taking into account the emergency of the people when it comes to these matters. Of course, the situation of homeless people who fear their lives, and their future is very serious. I don't think it's too bad that we're adding to their problems by judging any more severe prison punishment. That's not what I think we, either they or we as a community, are making any money. Rather, we need to find a way of being human. I'm counting on it. The Environment and Transport Committee, of course, takes everything to the limit, but especially the two things I've been tracking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u51	A respectable president. I want to be very brief with this subject. How important it is that we realize that the reason we are going to deal with this is that we need to meet a specific comparison in the international community. It is simply that if it occurs, e.g. Some stowaways get on ships and sails to the United States, where many would like to go, may conclude that the city's crew, the export crew, will be excluded as an export of half of those in the United States, or at least get a very high-priced account. With regard to the flight, there may be a series of security situations that could lead to the failure of other countries to trust our airports, with a real discomfort for all international airlines. So there are great interests at stake. There have been a number of cases where there have been a fractured into the affected area, e.g. Navigating protection, and entering the Cheflavour Airport, including to stop aircraft landing, not necessarily to get on board. This issue, therefore, does not take on refugees in itself, making sure that we have a normal rule of action around our living quarters. As I have said, it is only natural for the committee to discuss how this is done in the most reasonable way. For those previously modified and affected by the beard. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, was the background principle being carried out by environmental and transport sources at the time. In our opinion at the Ministry it's much clearer than in the current court and better established. This is milder than what was once, but in harmony with what is happening on a global scale. We do not have stricter standards than others in this regard. But that's salt weighing, for example, is an important interest in our normal transport of people and goods from time to time to Iceland and the way we deal with those who violate such rules in a human way. It's very serious to break them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u52	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize Iceland's National Registry. The bill is aimed at setting up a framework for the National Institutes of Iceland, its projects and roles. A special agency, a national file, was set up by law No. 54/1962 to conduct a public record. With law No. 77/2010, of the unity of Iceland's National Records and Real estates, adopted on July 1, 2010, a united National Publications Index and Iceland's Realty registry was proposed to be the only institution to be known as the National Constitution of Iceland. The aforementioned legislation on the unity of Iceland's National Publications and Realms is few, and all that there is to be a new agency called Iceland's National Registry, the Management Board of the Agency, the Person Protection Act and provision for temporary transfer of both institutions to a new agency. The National Publications Programme for Iceland is a fairly varied project, but many of the basic roles of providing national and national files. Instructions on the Agency's activities are found in the various legal code, such as law on law, national records, public registrations, passports laws, to name just a few. From the above, there is a lack of regulations about the management of the Agency, the responsibility of the director and a summary of the legal projects of the Agency. Then her currency records have been widely distributed in law. In other words, the bill is intended to make up for the above, and despite being shorter, it is far more extensive than the national and national records that are mentioned earlier. In the first part of the bill, i.e. 1,◯4. Article 9 of the Council of Directors, Directors' work, role and sale of expert services. 1st C.E. that Iceland's national records are a special agency for Ministers. It is assumed that the minister of a ship for five years is the director's, as well as his qualifications. A requirement is that the director have a university education that was useful to him. It is not a substance to bind the qualifications of Iceland's national Constitution to one particular professional education, for it does not demonstrate alone that one education is more suitable than others for the management of the Agency as this in the public. The director is expected to be responsible for the activities and management of the Agency, in contrast to emphasis, organization, activities, and the daily management of the Agency. It is noted that there has been a loss of control over the Agency at present. Then the Agency is not expected to send its shipit to the Ministry to confirm the minister. Such provisions are on the decline, being more consistent with independence and executive authority authority. In the 3rd. The bill contains a provision for the Agency's role and is listed in ten characters. In other words, there is a summary of all of the projects of the Agency that are, for example, part. to handle national records and related files, to manage data and information files, to handle real estate and related files, to issue passports, and to provide market stocks, in order to count just a few. The decision is not intended to replace individual special requirements that will be further considered on the Agency's projects. As noted, the management of the Agency is not to be expected, but it is to be noted that a minister can establish a number of advisers, more than one and more, in order to be the site of consultation and information exchange in the Agency's field. In Comb 4. The bill is an authority for the Agency to provide their expertise in a global market. For a similar provision, see 2 mg. Section 16. Act on Transportation, a transport agency, by law No. 119/2012. The directive suggests that the Agency will be authorized to present its expertise in the international market and to obtain an export of expert information covered by the Agency. In such an institution as Iceland's National Library, a wealth of expertise accumulates, and it may be desirable to be able to impart knowledge. This source can then create the Agency specialised in the form of the Agency's services, but it should only be supported by services. The Ministry feels that it is necessary for laws such as this to be in the law, since the Icelandic institution does not necessarily have the authority to present its expertise abroad. In the second part of the bill, or regulations of 5,◯9. par. Remuneration required by taxation, charges, regulations, validation and change of other laws. It is not a matter of specifically reviewing regulations and validation in this speech, but it is a matter of brief reviewing the terms of service due to legal requirements, charges, and changes in other laws. In the 5th. The bill is required according to credit. No change from the current rights is required, but there is a warrant for taking a service fee in one place, although there is a requirement for taking a special service fee or a law on the extra pay of the state's funds. Iceland's national records are currently authorized to collect services for various services and are outlined in ten letters. Two. The law states that in charge of a remuneration fee, the costs of pay and pay-related pay, production, driving, training and re-education, costs of specialised service, housing, employment status, communications and equipment, management and international cooperation in the interests of the Agency's legal projects, as well as travel and maintenance costs. The stated provision complies with the Agency's expense calculations for many years and is based on the 2012 cost of the decalculation model Deloitte. This has been reviewed thoroughly at the Ministry, and this has also been done thoroughly in the treatment of legal cases in Iceland's Supreme Court. 837/2014. It should be noted that these laws are not intended to alter the funding of Iceland's National Congress. Six. ..is finding a warrant. Iceland's National Congress has a special position to perform tasks that are heard by the President's section under different ministers. Then some decisions are paid to the decision - making committee. Therefore it was considered right to state that the decision of Iceland's nation should be charged with the minister's office, as terms of the dissociation of the Minister's work according to Article 26. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993, unless stated by law. Finally, it is proper to call attention to Article 9. the bill, which requires changes in other laws, including election laws. With the adjustment of the proposals, only additional support is being made for the work that the Iceland National Constitution has to do, and the implementation of each campaign can be necessary. It should specifically be noted that the purpose of Iceland's National Publications Index for the processing of personal information on the preparation of stocks is to ensure that the institutions are correct. It is then suggested that Iceland's National Registry be allowed to make a list of national references. Negotiation is not required; it is permitted to be made at the request of the head of the administration. The purpose of the Member State list is to ensure that the individual exists and that he or she is an campaign with regard to age, subject and district. Otherwise, this arrangement does not need a specific explanation. A respectable president. I have explained the subject of the bill and suggest that the bill will be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u53	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 442, No. 331. This is a bill for a new overall song on the Food Organization. The bill is written at the Department of Professional Road and Development. Today there are laws on the Food Institute, No. 80/2005. This law was originally referred to as a law on agriculture, with which law was established. The Agency took over the rights and responsibilities of various institutions of the budget, the head of an animal doctor, and the head of a hunting manager and the plant control department at the University of Iceland. With law No. 167/2007, on the change of the law due to the implementation of projects within the Iceland Management Board, food issues were moved to the Marine and Agriculture Ministry, and the terms of agri-environmental legislation were changed to the Food Institute. During the over ten years that the Food Organization has been working since further projects have been given to the Agency, including monitoring for meat processing, milk farms, egg production and marine products following the implementation of EU food legislation. In addition, projects related to fish farming and the well - being of animals have also been assigned to the Agency as well as to the management projects of the European Farmers Association. This bill contains indications that have been published in the Public Research Report on Food Institute since 2013 and also in the 2013 Food Institute report since 2017, which was prepared for the Employment and Development Ministry. In these reports, the Ministry of Business and Development was encouraged to establish new laws on the Food Institute, i.e. Frame Tracks including The role of the Agency, tasks, management and other laws relevant to the work would be clearly stated. It also discussed the criticism that the Agency has been subjected to because they do not have sufficient consultation with the most relevant people. This bill examines the administrative position of the Food Agency to the minister and that it operates in the food administration under law and other laws by the Agency. They say that by means of their activities, the consumer protection, the health and well - being of animals, the health of plants and the safety, the health and the well - being of food. Then we will discuss the role of the Food Agency. In the current Food Organization laws, this role is not described but referred to the legislation under the Agency's control and management of administrative matters. This bill presents a clearer description of this role, that the Agency will conduct administrative and surveillance in accordance with the law on Food and other laws, including Food, animal health, animal history, soil, food, transportation and management plans, fish farming, meat food, import and export control, and agricultural support. The second role of the Food Agency will then be first to advise the Ministers on the issues under the Agency's field of activity, including assistance in policy development, the preparation of laws and administration directives and international cooperation. Second, work on the coordination and effectiveness of public surveillance in their field of work. Third, to work on the availability of Icelandic products to foreign markets and finally to provide markets and public education on issues in the Agency's field of activity. That's where the bill says there's a plan for the Food Agency. Minister of the Agency's ship for five years is suggested. In turn, the director decided for a focus change and foreman, with the exception of a minister's ship of an animal - general who becomes the stage manager of the field of animal disease and protects against it and the subject of animal choice. This is unchanged from the current law and considered appropriate to maintain in view of the role entrusted to the head of the veterinarian in the import law of the animal. However, it is decreed that the head of the animal doctor should be the manager's replacement. The work of local animal doctors and districts is then laid down in the Law on Food Institute, but today it is required in Article 11. track No. 66/1998, about veterinary surgeons and health care in animals. In view of the fact that local animal doctors are now the workers of the Food Agency, it is right that their work and the district office, which the bill expects them to be, will be subject to the Agency's law. It is decreed that a food clinic operates on border stations, which today runs seven such stations. Tracks No. 93/1995, on food. All the import of agricultural products, marine products and live freshwater or marine animals from countries outside the European Economic Area will pass through these stations and there will be documents and comparisons and shipments to verify the origin of the products and the location of the decision. Finally, it is suggested that the Food Institute should schedule and publish a work report and set a longer-term policy in accordance with official financial legislation. In addition, in the bill this is suggested recently that we the Agency operates on a so-called cooperative committee. This should be the setting of consultations and information exchanges between the Food Agency and those associated with it. It is, in fact, there. ...................................................................................................... It is suggested in the bill that the minister determine the candidate and the number of agents. Finally, it is suggested that a contract be made until a suitable party is allowed to handle specific tasks for observation. In certain cases a minister may have the authority to decide to make such agreements, but in other cases, the decision must be made by the Food Organization. Such sources are already in certain laws that the Food Organization operates on, but it is suggested here that this rule applies to all the laws being carried out by the Agency. With new laws on the Food Institute, if this bill is legal, the aim is to explain the role of the Agency better than in existing legislation. In this way, the aim is to establish effective consultations between the Agency and stakeholders and to allow the government to hand out tasks when practical. A respectable president. I've traced the main subject of this bill, and I'd like to refer to the report that follows the bill, which contains a detailed review of its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for review. I asked for the word to have a word at the top. Minister for the collaborative council he brought in only at the end of his speech. Nevertheless, I would like to discuss these matters a little with him to help us get to sleep. Work committee. The report is presented, as it were, at the highest level. In his case, a minister did a fine job here, saying that they have heard criticism reports about the lack of adequate consultation, as indicated in the report, by permission of the president: Achieving a large amount of communication was considered to be 32% good, while 86% of the partners in the other food industry. It seems that there is less pleasure in farming than in the food industry. V.E.G. There was a minister over who might be considered in the discussed collaboration board, which is, as it were, not a lot of information in the bill itself. It says that a minister of colleagues, as well as the Food Organization, appoints a number of representatives and names. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether this fact regarding farming will be considered in particular. I'm sure it's a good thing about all business. That's always good. Will there be a particular concern about the fact of this cooperation? What's the big deal? A minister of that? What representatives especially need to cooperate with that fact?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. There is no such thing as the request or the way to assemble the team of fellow workers. However, it is obvious to me that the criticism that has come to this institution is a factor in the way it provides for those in the sector, and, for example, some criticismal services that the Ministry needs to handle, such as the Watch Tower Society has to handle. With regard to finance and similar activities With regard to the work programme and how it will be arranged, we must conclude that in this way we should achieve the most direct contact with the companies and organizations that have criticized the Agency in a materialistic and objective way. How it's going to spread, I won't say, but the poll that had. A senator referred to certain clues as to where we must become more confidential between the Agency and those who are served or under its supervision. Obviously, without my knowledge of the diagnosis, I can be sure that most of the work centres are critical, such as. in this case as a seizure. A senator mentioned. This may be due to the simple reason that the Agency has not been able to serve them sufficiently, the nature of the matter, as it were. We'll have to deal with it somehow. This will be best done in the immediate cooperation of those who are most critical. That's what I'm going to try. But as I told you at the beginning, we do not have what kind of work we are going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u56	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. No. 330. It consists of a bill to correct a change in food law and the law on veterinary surgeons and health care of animals. The bill is made up at the Department of Employment and Development, and it's also working together with a bill for the Food Institute, which I've just finished measuring for. So the reason for this bill is the same as I explained in my introduction earlier, that is, in a report published by the National Research Institute for Food and Health, the 2013 Report, and a report published by the Ministry for Food Institute since 2017, beginning last year. As a result of reviewing aspects of the activities of the Food Agency, it became clear that adjustments were required in other laws and a new bill on the Food Organization. There is a need to clarify the sources and duties of the Food Agency for information on the aspects of the Agency's surveillance but in recent years have been called upon to provide more information on the interests of consumers. At that time, the distribution of this information to consumers was considered. The main reason for deciding to establish this material into a diet law rather than in the Food Institute law is that there is a need to provide information on health care committees, while monitoring the dietary law is in the hands of both parties, i.e. Health Committees and Food Organization. In fact, the 11 parties, each with a national health committee of ten members, are independent of control. This also gives you reason to consider how similar surveillance can be between different health benefits. It is equally important and even more important that consumers be provided with information relating to the monitoring of health committees in areas where monitoring for consumers is next. Provide the medical committees for monitoring stores, big firehouses, and restaurants. There is also reason to change the law on veterinary surgeons and health care with animals in line with the proposal in the bill for the Food Organization. For the first time, a new provision has been proposed by the Commission to reduce the incidence of food surveillance in a food company that has a witness from a professional organisation that the internal supervision of the company meets the requirements of law and regulations. Aims for this change in providing food companies with flexibility in the ability to obtain the assessments of professional users when the surveillance provider determines the need for monitoring in certain food companies. Second, a new arrangement is proposed to monitors, i.e. In accordance with the results of the surveillance programme and that a minister in the regulations of the regulations for such categories, they should be stratified by local food centres and by local health committees. The performance category refers to the performance of an enterprise in official surveillance and is defined accordingly. This category interferes with assessments of the company's monitoring needs, but the enterprise thus has a direct benefit in doing well as needing less monitoring and thus paying lower monitoring costs. It is suggested that local health committees adopt a range of food companies and publish food control information in the same way as the Food Organization. This is how all the official organisations used in the same risk and performance category under their supervision. It differs in how far the community health committees are involved in recording this system, but the basis for publishing information on the performance of an enterprise is that all organisations use an integrated monitoring system. Thirdly, changes that will take place on January 1, 2021 are proposed to provide public information on the company's performance categories. It will also be permitted to determine the publication of the classified surveillance reports. It is not advisable to oblige the official organisation to publish this information immediately from January 1, 2019, when the second law of the bill should take effect. As mentioned earlier, the health monitoring committees of rural society have differed in starting a high risk and performance status. To provide information on the company performance status as significant, monitoring procedures need to be behind the category of enterprises. Governments must be given time to adapt to and coordinate the operation. Is it considered proper to give the companies a chance to improve, in view of new rules for the publication of performance information as well as providing new food companies with a better performance on observation before public performance information is made. It is suggested that a minister be committed to a Regulation in the manner in which the performance class is published. He may decide to display the whole classification, e.g. with what is called a smile-call system known in the North countries but also a list of companies that are divided into a particular category or category, which I think most people will be more interested in better than the other method, which includes is new in Denmark, but Danir is found to be more cheerful. It will also be in accordance with Regulations for submission of follow-up reports. Today it is not required to publish this information, and it is based on information law, No. 140/2012. Finally, as stated earlier, animal laws and health care are proposed. A bill to legalize the Food Organization suggests that local animal doctors and district offices are laid up in the Food Institute Act. Today, there are local animal doctors in the law of No. 66 from 1998, about veterinary surgeons and health care for animals. Since local animal doctors are now employees of the Food Agency, it is reasonable that their work and district work agree to the Food Agency's law. I've traced this bill's main subject and I'd like to refer to the report that comes with it. It discusses the content of the bill. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u57	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. And never miss this, when it comes to it. At the beginning of his speech, a senator uses words like this, and I'm going to keep it. I only want to come here to have said it, when it comes to reducing the frequency of surveillance, that this is a case we need very careful action. I have no doubt that I and the highest. Ministers agree on that matter. In recent years, we have seen examples of the importance of food control. Strong food management is a great protection from consumers. I'd like to encourage us to work on a professional committee and to sharpen, in consultation with the Ministry, to find these systems and to take a good look at them as the highest level. The minister came in. I'm not saying this isn't necessarily the way, if the professionals think it's better, we'll look at it with an open mind. I just wanted to make it clear that strong and good food control is consumer protection. I think we're at the highest. Ministers don't disagree on these matters. I just wanted to have said it here. That's why I didn't answer the highest. Minister. I think we agree on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u58	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 94/2017, about a change in Bella. Annex to the EEA Convention on mutual recognition of professional education and appropriate, and Annex X. Annex to the EEA General Service Convention and Membership of the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on Change of the older Directive on the recognition of professional education and relevant and Regulation on cooperation in the management sector via the Information System for the internal market. The main indicators and changes recommended by the directive are the introduction of a so-called European topic card designed to promote professional mobility and provide more efficient and more efficient recognition for professional education and appropriate. With your professional diploma you can apply for recognition of professional education and electronically. It is also permitted by the directive to provide limited access to a profession. This is true if there is so much difference between the requirements for the household sector and the expected state of lodging that requirements for the latter are equivalent, since the applicant would need to complete full study and training in the inn to get complete access to the relevant profession in that state. Furthermore, Member States should use information and services centres established to facilitate the recognition of professional education and appropriate. In accordance with the directive, common education requirements for a joint final test will be permitted for the desired profession, thereby establishing spontaneous recognition for these articles. As such, students will be able to obtain an accepted training course or a working experience period within the legal profession carried out in another EEA country other than in their country of origin. The directive further recommends that the current legislation of legislation should be further developed in order to ensure that current requirements do not include direct or indirect discrimination on the basis of state or residence. As the implementation of the directive calls for a legal adjustment, the decision of the joint EEA committee was taken by administrative notice of Iceland. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I suggest, a respectable president, after this discussion, this proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u59	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 129/2017 of change in II. Annex to the EEA Convention on Technical Regulations, Standards, Tests and Registration and Membership of the Commission's Convention the Commission's procedure of design on the common ID to convince parties that offer products to the public in telecommunications and technical and electronic requirements and encryption requirements for the authenticity of its product. This Regulation establishes a common ID to confirm that persons offering medicines on the telecommunications have the authority and are identified as such by the competent authorities. If the web page has the identifying mark, consumers should be able to trust that those who do the work by law. This aim is to harmonise legislation in the European Economic Area in this respect and to match fake drugs on the market. The Regulation explains how the signal should be made and its safety guaranteed. Detailed instructions are provided in the annex to Regulation. As the directive's implementation calls for a legal adjustment, the decision of the joint EEA committee was made by administrative notice on the part of Iceland. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u60	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 187/2017, which recommend the implementation of one Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of consumer protection in the EEA Convention. It's about the package trips and the synthetic travel arrangements. It expands the range of current legislation on package travel to cover what can be called a light travel package, and it measures the mutual recognition of insurance systems. The older directive was aimed at increasing the justice of consumers who bought so - called trips or packages. As the Internet has developed, consumers have increased their business with many different people. Thus, consumers themselves organise packages that fall outside the standard of protection established by existing legislation. In recognition of insurance systems, there is a new recommendation presented in the directive. It estimates that all EU/EEA Member States will be mutually recognized as insurance systems. It is noted that such a change could lead to increased competition between Member States. Implementation of this type calls for changes in ocial law, No. 80/1994. So the decision was made under administrative notice on the part of Iceland on the joint EEA committee. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u61	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 92/2017, which measures that four types of European Union's technical regulations, regulations, testing and certification will be implemented in the EEA Convention. The four types are all about child drugs. Most medicines currently marketed in Europe have been specifically studied for their effect on children, except for antibiotics specifically intended for children and vaccines due to serious medical conditions in children. This led to the European Union's setting up regulations. The objective of Regulation No. An increase in the availability of tested and authorised medicinal products for the paediatric population is 1901/2006. The objective is also to remove market-to-proceeding business barriers in children by making the application procedure easier and cost for the marketing authorisation to the European Medicines Agency less. This adds to the length of the time these medicines have been protected by the rights of mind. By the Regulation, therefore, it is being responsible for increasing the initiative of the products in this field in the European Economic Area. The Regulation shall ensure that medicinal products prepared for use in children have gone through a careful scientific research process and are carefully discussed morally prior to launch. Medicinal products that undergo such a process are then marketed as a special authorised product for use in children. It should be noted that in accordance with Regulation, the European Commission is responsible for the binding decision-making of guiltys and the publication of names and specific details of the break-off of the marketing authorisation holder against the regulations and regulations of the Regulation. 726/2004 on the Community case for hosting human and animal treatments, etc. On decision of the joint EEA board, the EFTA (EU) monitoring centre is hidden from the above authority against the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) which has confirmed in the EFTA state. In accordance with the decision, ESAs should closely cooperate with the Commission in the application of these legislations and in the recognition and administration of the Commission before making decisions about the use of guiltys. ESA decisions, however, will be carried only under the EFTA Court. The other regulations require more information about guilty persons, better define the grounds of the Regulation No. 1901/2006, including publishing the new global protocol for publishing additional product protection certificates. Since the implementation of the Regulation calls for a legal adjustment, the decision of the joint EEA committee was made by administrative notice on the part of Iceland. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u62	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 107/2017 of the change in XX. Annex to the EEA Convention on Environment and Membership of the Commission's Commission's Commission's decision to establish best available technology (BAT) under the European Parliament and Council Directive 2010/75/EU, due to an ironless metal industry. The 2010/75 directive deals with industrial emissions and combines seven older products with integrated pollution. The directive is based on a comprehensive approach to take into account the overall environment, e.g. by reducing emissions into air, water and soil during waste management and by taking needed measures when accidents or accidents occur that have a significant impact on the environment. Its aim is to prevent and limit pollution, such as by setting emissions on specific materials. The directive's main directives include decisions about the best available technology (BAT) and their value through the development of so-called data on the best available technology (BAT). The new references include the European Commission, in collaboration with Member States and stakeholders, establishing criteria for specific activities. These criteria will be set as a special type of the Commission, i.e. The BAT decisions. The aforementioned projection proposed by this synopsis endeavors to be confirmed by the General Assembly is a BAT decision. It means firmly establishing the results of the best available technology for the ironless metal industry. In the United States alone, a company or two will be responsible for recycling an elf and a factory producing a silica iron or so - called iron complex. In addition, the decision is made by two factories in a building that have the EEA's work permit to produce raw silk, and a factory authorised for such activities. As the decision-making directive is based on the need for adjustment, the decision of the joint EEA committee was made by administrative notice on the part of Iceland. According to the Council of Parliamentary Congress, such a warning must be removed by a judicial decree. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u63	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Committee's Committee to Regressation Act on the Institute of Southern Heat Institute, No. 10/2001, with subsequent changes. The committee has discussed the case that has forced the removal of a law on the establishment of a Southnesian Coalition, which no longer operates in the administration of the Union's heat system. The company was laid down in 2008, and in its role two independent companies, HD Energy Corp. And HS granteth hf: but their work agreeeth with other laws in this matter, and is not considered to be of special law, nor of their leave. The bill contains a legal cleansing process and suggests that the committee will agree on it. Under these publications, Director Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Miss Mccarthy, chairman of the Committee, Inga Sæland, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándænsdótir, Elíasdóttir Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kolbin Óttarsson Proppé, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Sigurður Jónsson. Senators. The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was meeting the committee as an officer of the hearing, and she agrees with this. There's not much more to say about this, these are actually just archaic laws and little in them; nothing in them that has no meaning today. It's nice to get them out of the library. So as a member of the administrative body or a minority body member, I wondered why the government is the top priority. That doesn't change the fact that cleaning is always nice. It's like it is and there's nothing more to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u64	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for a synonym as to the preparation of stock accounts for state funds in total and individual Member States in Period A. This material was referred to on January 23, and we discussed it in five meetings. We were contacted by Kristinnur Hjörtur Jónasson, Lúðvík Guðjónsson and Gunnar H. Hallur from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. Also arrived Ingi K. Magnússon and Birgir Finnbogason from the National Reconclusion of the Committee and María Heimisdóttir and Rúnar B. Jóhannsson from the Hospital. The purpose of this synonym is to put the World Council on January 1, 2017, in order to assign governments to change the initial balance of the financial balance of the state budget and all Member States. Law No. For public financial reasons, 123/2015 accounts for extensive changes in the budget and accounts of state funds and Member States of Part A budget from what used to be. It is, in fact, there. It should be noted that the State bill should meet international accounting standards for the public and that each year the Court shall meet the requirements for the annual accounts, No. 3/2006. The first step in this product is to make a new economic account based on the beginning of 2017. International accounts at the Public Remuneration Centre, often referred to as IPSAS, include a complete public fund, but in each Member State the IPSAS standards will be employed in the event of a reputed issue, with a variation between the annual bill and IPSAS. Depending on the timing of payment, the foundation of the network refers to the transfer of income and expenses into the period established for them. Mainly, however, the greatest impact of modified accounts is expected to be in the started financial accounts, although, in exceptional cases, it will be delayed because of certain types of property and commitments. As a result, the overall impact of the induction is expected to not be fully achieved until the year 2019. The changes went into effect from 2017 onward, which means that the balance accounts at the beginning of 2017 have changed completely since 2016. The most important change in government accounts is the possession of permanent funds and the writing of its shelf life. Investments for investment will be put on balance accounts as a premeditated investment budget which, in turn, will be used over a lifetime period of possession, in turn, in turn, to balance income and cost in business. The previously reimbursed assets will be re-evaluated based on the extrapolated original stock prices for writing and moving as property. The aim is to draw up the funds contained in these assets, and there will continue to be copies that will be distributed during the lifetime of the property. Among the assets that fall below are: real estate, furniture, office equipment, various devices, ships, airplanes, and helicopters, as well as the built - in investments of the road, airports, and so on. In addition, there will be an assessment of the land owned by the State. In terms of economic expenditure, the evaluation of permanent financial assets must be made in all institutions and be canceled according to their age. Other local changes include e.g. in the binding contracts over one year and the posttraumatic holiday commitments to date have not been submitted. The international accounting standards also support a wide range of risk precautions. Thus, the share of the budget can be expected to increase beyond that date. The expected condensation accounts of the state that are collected into one annual account all accounts of Member States and state funds change even more than the accounts of the individual Member States. Government funds have transferred teams that are rarely involved in individual sources. Many assets, property, land, property, and other infrastructures, such as the road system, airports, and so forth, are to be evaluated, not to be tested by any local authority. In addition, the accounting of pension bonds, loans, and various other commitments has to be changed into economic accounts. The gaps need their own money precisely, but they have been so far, and many commitments have been made to that end have gone beyond the account. A new account also calls for changes in budgetary production to maintain the goal of making an account comparable to the budget. The new account went into effect starting in 2017, but there were no changes in budgets for that year because of the property and the canceling of funds. In 2017, no suggestions were made on the budget for correcting and, as a matter of fact, not in budgets for the current year. In view of the greater part at 2nd. This project is pointed to by a bill for financial support in 2017, and it is announced that the analysis of the extent of investments will be available early this year. It also publishes comparable changes in budgets for 2018 and the 2019 budgets. Investment contributions are therefore included in legal requirements both years. Part of the bill for the two years is to meet an investment and must move on as an investment authority, thus reducing the price of the same amount. It is therefore inevitable to make changes in the manner in which accounts change is made. Before 2017, we will expect to be based on the facts of the institutions for correction, but before 2018, we plan to build on investments according to the agreed management programmes. The interpretation proposal does not involve a warrant for changes in the economic exchange of funds, and therefore the approval of the Allied Council must be sought by law-employment. This is likely to happen on the other hand as part of a bill of confirmation of the GDP of 2017 by the year last year and, on the other hand, as a correction of the bill for the budget for the current year. The same is true of sources due to the trauma of holiday and vacation commitments. These commitments are expected to go into debt and into debt to the state's funds. If there is to be an improvement in these single-change fees, it is necessary to consult Generals' sources in the bill for confirmation of a GDP by 2017. International accounting standards also include market income, i.e. there is no other way to get into the state's financial system, which is based on specific institutions or projects on the remuneration side of the budget, rather than on earmarks for spending. The foundations conflict with a number of specifics that require the limitation of income. In order to eliminate this uncertainty, governments have been submitted that require largely the removal of market income. State account for 2016 shows that there are over 40 persons in the market with income, and some 20 of these contain their own money. The bank of its own money has developed in a way that allows donations to be either higher or lower than the market income, resulting in variations affecting its own resources and projects without affecting the survival of the year. In all cases except one is bound positive, i.e. budgetary contributions have proved to be lower than markets. Only in the case of the roadmaking, money is negative to its own. There is not yet a question of how or when the terms of money will be settled when the sum of the account will be reimbursed. It is very important that we determine that very soon. The status of international accounting standards for the public is such that the Committee has reviewed reports from the Economic and Development Institute, OECD, and the World Bank on the implementation of international accounting standards on the bases of the network in various countries. The IPSAS standards that reach the management base are about 40 and the key results are: About 3/4 parts of the EU have the government's account on the base of business. About a quarter of them also have budgets on the economy, but there is complete access to whether the funds of the institutions are on payment or management database. Although a large proportion of the countries published an account on the basis of the network, this is never fully in line with the international accounting standards. Only New Zealand and Britain's budget is fully at the base of the network, but they follow their own accounts, which, in fact, are in most accordance with the IPSAS. When the production of standards is complete in 2019, Iceland will become unchanged one state within OECD, where they have been fully introduced. Comparison of accounts by the OECD Member States shows that the changes brought into the national law are classified as ambitious legislation in the field of accounting and funding, but it is also apparent that the types of countries abroad cannot be fully searched for in the most efficient way in which legislation is introduced. Only New Zealand, Australia, and Britain have introduced the standards that are entirely on the base of the network and take both account and budget. The accounts of these countries are based largely on the IPSAS, but with some exceptions. A financial committee is aware that the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs is now working on the implementation of international accounting programmes where the founding accounts are an important first step. It is not possible to close the final account prior to 2017 until this work is started. In addition to the Ministry, the State Department is responsible for completing a number of aspects of the induction. It is suggested that the implementation schedule is established, in which the terms of individual IPSAS standards are compared to the state's budget situation today. It is important to speed up the job at the most important source. It is not possible to complete, as previously stated at the year 2017, until founding economic accounts are provided, as well as appropriate changes in financial resources, property and the writing of permanent funds. The committee will study the implementation program and call a representative of the State's Council of Accounts to their meeting when the ultimate plan is established. Finally, the committee has specific suggestions for those who are in charge of the work. We feel that it is very important to keep this in mind so that projects will work best for us. There must be a clear responsibility for the project. The Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs has an active project management and there is a need to make clear, to determine quickly, and to make decisions as soon as possible to those responsible for the accounts of the institutions and state funds. It may be necessary to consult a legal accountant on a much larger scale than has been. This speeds up and improves the quality of work on which the decision of the project management is based. It appears that too little emphasis is being placed on informing and training employees who operate in the bank accounts and legal arrangements of the state. It must be corrected. Also, changes in accounts need to be published. The exact implementation plan of the accounts must be placed as soon as possible. It must be timed, replaced by to-dos, and unique standards. The date of the implementation of individual standards has to be determined and, as I said earlier, the responsibility must be clear and the cost of each to-do must also be estimated. We will study this in a financial committee better when the plan is in its final version. Decisions given to the 2017 account should already be available. These include treatment of holiday debt and various methods of evaluating property. There will no longer be a chance of breaking up with the government's funds. The Committee wants suggestions from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs on how they're going to be done. We agree that too much has been said to suggest changes in budgets in line with changes in accounts, in order to reduce donations to companies and transfer them to investment contributions. The committee expects suggestions in this area as soon as possible. The classification of real estate and their value are closely linked to the permanent administration of real estate. Decisions are required to make as soon as possible about the government's real estate arrangements, e.g. Whether Iceland's National Hospital and University run their own real estates or they become part of a much bigger real estate partner. The General Assembly must, like the Council, know the identity of the State's financial information so that the main objective of government survival and success is clear and easily understood members and members of the Parliament. In order to accomplish this, the Commission will use for information conferences and presentations specifically intended for members of the Parliament. A respectable president. The Commission suggests that the plan will be agreed as well and plan to have further meetings with representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs in the future on the issues presented in the opinion. Hv. paritaprevir While Haraldur the son of Benediktsson was absent from the case, he writes under authority in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn stone of Víglundsson, an officer of the Committee, supports the outworking of this case. Under these publications. The members of Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, Bjarkey Olsen the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzma, Njáll the Trausti of FrinbertFriðbertsson and Haraldur the Benediktsson of Bengoreth.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u65	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for history on behalf of the dog. The legal committee in the case we speak here, a proposal for a resolution on the preparation of stocks for the entire state fund and the individual Member States. Hv. A senator reviewed the matter and discussed the committee. Since this is part of a long process and has to do with the framework of public financial law, it is an important step to cross over into moving property and debt and, as a result, starting with a foundation economy, I'm going to approach it from the framework of the law. The resolutions and nominees are made clearly based on a plan for the induction of these changes, as it were. A senator and a front official went well over. After the induction of the changes, the balance of property therapy and the debt of state funds and Member States in Part A meet the requirements of the international government accounting standards and annual accounts. Like the bill to the final budget, which has been discussed in the year. The legal committee, this is a turning point. In the case of a bill to the end of the budget, this is the last time we take in for a bill of that form. At the same time, there's a turning point in which we're going to have access to and debt, which has not been made before, and set up a fiscal account to implement it for individual members of Part A, and a whole state fund, like a rough. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir made good progress when she arrived at accounting standards in accordance with the changes in terms of accounting. This is being reported in 52 C.E. it's a government law. So I refer them to the law of the law, which says, by permission of the president: A balance sheet for the entire A State Fund should be set up on the basis of international accounting standards for the public, which are targeted at the base of the management sector. A billing advice may temporarily delay recording parts of the station, as there are issues to be considered. State account should explain the details of the standards not followed, their reasons and their impact on survival and economics. Calculation for individual Member States in Period A shall meet the annual accounts requirements, No. 3/2006.How can I help you? The same applies to parties in Part B and Part C. According to one report on official financial legislation, which went into effect in January 2016. of the above 52. ... withauthority of the President's permission: It is expected that it will be limited to a so-called combined investment, i.e. An investment directly involved in the traditional administration of the state. This includes the exception of other material possessions, such as natural resources, national parks, highlands, arts, and antiquities. However, the entire government's investment, after the implementation of the law, will advance on the balance of the state's funds regardless of whether it is an investment or other material assets are being taken in accordance with the rules of accounting. [...] The uptake of the global accounting status has a major impact on the transfer therapy and the results from the accounting of the A-part State Fund as a whole. An important change is that the balance of the accounts will be in addition to the financial resources that contain material wealth, thus obtaining a much more realistic picture of a clean property status and a sustainable state fund. At this time, financial depreciations, as well as financial benefits, will now be increasing in operating accounts, but there is a loss of payment on operating costs. According to the standard, the real score will be compared to budgeting and planning. The benefits of setting up an international Public Accounting Standard for the Total State Fund are largely due to an accounting for recognized definitions that meet international standards that the public and professional can trust. I believe it is important to review these points from a report to confirm and understanding the matter. By the arrangement of Congress, we commit governments to set up legitimate financial bills so that accounts and international accounts can be taken into account by the so - called management bases of state institutions and entire state funds. The major change is that so far only financial assets have been brought up in the financial balance of the estates and the state funds. All investments so far, whatever name they are called, are paid for by the year of purchase and construction. In contrast, investments will now be attributed and canceled during their lifetime. So we see the expected change in the balance of institutions, such as from the road industry and the National Guard, to mention some example and a possible example worth setting up for the committee when we start following up the project, like before. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir entered his story. Iceland will make these changes as a result of its introduction to international accounting centers. Granted, more part of OECD countries sees the management criteria, but very few countries have gone so far as to introduce international accounting standards as Iceland is now heading for. Most countries show funding on a so-called foundation, i.e. Only subsidies of the year. Here, it is intended that the budget and the tax will be made on a comparable basis. A lot of work has been done. As I came in, this has been a long process and an important step on the road to fully implementing this project. To succeed in this process, you need to consider many factors, such as a credit card. It is expected that the road structure will continue to care for the extravasation of transport, a major part of all of this. The Agency will be committed to the management of property companies and to the management of property and property on the basis of contracts with other government agencies. One of the main benefits of the change is the fact that financial commitments are now being made visible in the accounts of the institutions. In view of the experience abroad, it can be assumed that the government's property will gradually be more useful than ever, and it will be encouraged to reduce the number of square feet in the officehouses of the state. As a result, the expenditure of Member States could become more comparable between them and the activities of the private market. The case has been discussed on that issue. It's a legal committee. The task, the Council's Self - Conspiracy proposal that we address here, is vast, as shown in the report. It involves a major and, in fact, a fundamental change. Therefore, it is important to understand the changes in accounts, changes in terms of accounting regulations and international accounting standards and the effects on property and debt, new joints, altered assessments and disintegration. We expect to see a marked change in the balance of state accounts and possibly the point of which this account explains. It will require expertise in the leading induction process in this field, in the field of assessment, in the field of accounting regulations and in international accounting standards. It is essential for the committee to follow this schedule and to call for officers at the meeting of the Committee on the implementation of the project. This is where it went. A pilot and a boy. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the tips the committee made at the end of this committee. Otherwise, it is suggested in a panel to accept the proposal unchanged, but it is important that the clear responsibility for the project be followed and to be considered, as knowledge is not very broad and narrow, to seek advice and to train staff. In all this process, from the sentence of the law on public finances, there has been a value or reference to an induction program. It is important to review it up, especially what is involved in the subject of the conclusion we are considering here. Then I'd like to point out an excellent comment by the National Hospital on the matter and those who came to the Committee on the importance of holiday commitment decisions. This is true of a number of institutions, as well as a variety of methods of evaluating property. Of course, this will not be the case. In addition, the Commission expects a rapid change in budget. It is important that changes are consistent with changes in accounts as rapidly as possible, which we would call changes in economic exchange. This does not really affect survival, but it is made clear in the committee's opinion and motive. A manager came into the picture on page 2, looking to the General's approval for the change when it comes. They need to make decisions about real estate arrangements. It may refer to forming a real estate partner, some of which are so called cultural value. The real estate we are in here would likely be listed there. Also, there are different prices on property in the country and so forth, so there are a number of additional items on property and prices to be taken into account and how to handle them. Finally, I'm going to say that the legislature and the general body of law needs to have opinions on matters and decisions every day. As a result, understanding is better understood because this is a big change in the subject from a traditional budget to a government law and then a change in terms of accounting, as we are considering here. Therefore, the committee points to, and plans to follow, that it would be wise for senators to get special information when these changes are followed. I'm going to finish my case, Mr. Honorable President, but again, this is a fundamental change in accounts. I refer to the Commission's comments, but as mentioned in a committee study, it is suggested to accept the Parliament's decision as unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-03-07-36.u66	Madam President. Since I'm so late, I'm going to shorten my case by my prisoners. The proposal here for interpretation strategies strategies lays the basis for terms of state funds in total and individual Member States in Part A. It shows that the changes in government accounts will be implemented over the years based on a specific financial and economic strategy that will be undertaken. It is stated that it should be submitted and accepted by the State's Council of Accounts. When you look into how it's good and important advice combined, the names of five people are presented; two are from the Ministry of finance, one's district manager, one's the economist, and then there's one from a private company outside the system. It can therefore be assumed that the same party will come up with a discussion on this subject and agree on the Council of Remuneration, including the check-ins, and have been dealing with this subject in the preparation of this case. It's just a little bit of a diversion. State account for 2016, the latest account available, explains the accounts and accounts of the 2016 state funds. It states that a government bill is set forth in accordance with the State's budget, and it is placed before 2016 in two parts. In that case, there is a 2016 state bill, a total overview shown by the members of each Member State, as it says. It then explains that it provides a guide to the collection of accounts for the entire A-part State Fund and a comparison of the results of individual resources. Significantly, this account of 2016, the latest account available, is the fact that there is a reference to a balance account. There is now nothing in the law that says "Environment," but there is an intensification account. In other words, this is not a structure that is being talked about. Rather, it is a reference to a balance account. The equivalent accounts apply to the rules that apply to the situation. Here, apparently, some kind of announcement is made, as you can see, that the rules that were not being followed in the laws regarding the implementation of this complex account, but as a reference is expressed. We do not know whether this guide to condensation accounts is almost complete, or whether there is a substantial lack. This raises the question of why it is presented in this way as well as the timing of the setting up of adefinitive account that meets the requirements of accounting. On the one hand, it says that intermediate transactions between burning and sharing within the organisation are deleted, but not between partners, within Part A. What does this mean? Is this to be understood, Madam President, that certain business in the balance account is divided? This raises the question of why this is so, and why this business is not simply destroyed. In a paper with the Parliament's resolution proposal, it is stated that from the year 2017 onward, under official financial law the law of the law applies in terms of accounting and that the terms of the State account for 2017 should be made for the first time in accordance with these changed rules of accounting and all of that. In other words, it is assumed that it will take place in the induction process of a three-year period and should be based on a special financial and economic programme that will be responsible for the execution, as it may be, and shall be submitted and accepted by the State's Council of Accounting, as above. When we're dealing with this proposal for action, about the preparation of a core budget for state funds and individual Member States in Part A, this question arises: Why is this induction program simply not in place? Similarly, the question is: How should older possessions and their deeds be brought to the State's accounting? It seems that there are some differences between the State Accounting and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs how these entries should be handled. It is only to consider, Madam President, being in position to agree to the Parliament's arrangement for founding economics when these factors have not been resolved. Perhaps it would have been normal for the influence of the changed accounting standards, which are a major part of the data we have in front of us, to be presented in a paper by the motion.
