ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u1	To answer, Ministers of Education and Culture, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Transport and District Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u2	A respectable president. On June 9, 2017, a task force appointed by a former marine dignitary and agricultural minister, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, requested a review of the future market budget. These suggestions were of interest. Long - term contracts were proposed to provide more firmness and an increased risk of building up. The proposals also made it necessary for rural communities to be allowed to rent it from one side to another and to make use of their income in another type of industry. Here we have a degree of flexibility that can give us great opportunities for smaller sea settlements to create new opportunities. The problem we face in smaller seas is that the foundation of the village is often in the hands of one company, as we have many examples. Therefore, it is important to allow them to move forward and find new foundations for the structure. The marine waters have been affected by a number of declines in the oceans over the last few decades, and especially by the formation of the food system, which was about to protect fish populations and contribute to the management of fishing roads. This economy has had a significant negative impact on many coastal areas, especially smaller villages, far from larger and more efficient areas of employment. For example, the population of the country's smallest coastal region has fallen by 37% between 1984 and 2017. The task force led by Þóroddur Bjarnason, a professor of the University of Akureyri, claims that the decision of the legislatator on distribution and the future of the labor market has set in motion a trend that undermined settlement in smaller coastal areas. So I want to direct my inquiry to the highest level. Sea dignitary and agricultural Minister: How does the Minister feel about these suggestions? Will he continue to make good use of them in his secular work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yes, there is. There are some suggestions from the work of a former sea chief in these chemicals that are about to turn to the rural area. Actually, it's about 26,000 tons, if I recall correctly, in these measures by a seafaring minister, making it almost the largest cartel in the country. As a result, there are great interests that affect a wide range of communities, individuals, and businesses. 5.3% of the quadruples take such special action, and in the Treaty it states that these pots, known as pots, should be reviewed in the Member State's entire fish market. That's what's in my office planning. The work that is set out in a government covenant is carried out in the form of the task. A senator quoted here under the leadership of Þóroddur Bjarnason. Of course, it does. But at this point, there is really no way to tell which way this will be done or what the outcome will be. There is every reason in my mind to review both the process and the order of doing all about the fishing rights that are stored there. I'll take the discussion in the second answer to how it might be possible to change the emphasis on the sharing of these values or the quality below.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u4	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers. I think it's an enormously important tool to help these settlements find a new foundation. It tells itself that it may not be wise to have an extensive structure in each country, and it has been a common force. But we need to help those built up to find new opportunities. It takes approximately 300 tons of quotas to finance e.g. The University of People at Flatland, some 326 tons. Of course, there are many other projects that build more than one foundation and help the settlement to find a new foundation. I find these suggestions very interesting, and I would like to point out that governments are responsible for the collapse of these settlements, and they must respond. I think this is a good way to demonstrate a small effort to meet the challenges of these settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u5	A respectable president. As I said before, in many ways I accept the views that are presented in the matter at any time. Senator. However, I point out that when we are discussing that the state will be assigned in a different way to sources that are needed in the pots first to select the rural communities to receive the distribution of these limited quality. Thereafter, the rural communities have the responsibility to choose between individuals and companies within their own ranks. What I'm basically drawing up here is that it's not simple to assign valuables to resources. The local community may be better off than the regular work the state has set for pots, though I'm not sure. We also have a strong argument within small communities that reflects a huge conflict between stakeholders in small society for the limited quality of resources available. So I mention that which is perfectly right. A senator mentions, more in life than in fish. [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure that we would necessarily build a problem with 50 or 100 tons of resources in addition to what is already available.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u6	Mr. President. The University of Akureyri graduated from the State Police School after the sale of Kingdom Halls in 2016. In order to maintain this goal, the study was held at a university level, which was, in effect, not just moved. Immediately this study was taken in the same fall of 2016, and this was a diplomat's study, with the thought of prospective, active police officers. In the autumn, only 45 students will pass through a competitive test, 180 applied. The study is now trident; BA in police and law enforcement, diplomats in police school, and then diplomats in police school for acting police officers. The training we know is totally and still by the Department of Education and the Department of Development, which is located in Reykjavík. I'll tell myself that the University of Akureyri would love to see all the studies go to HA, the University of Akureyri, both the course of education, and so on. All our facilities are in the University of Akureyri, as well as in the community, whether it's good or bad news. So I want to direct the following questions to the highest level. Education and Culture Minister: What is the experience of this police school? Does a minister believe that teaching is well enough? Finally: Will a minister promote an increase in funds to increase the number of educated policemen?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u7	A respectable president. I appreciate your inquiry and this interest at the university. We've raised a substantial amount of money to the university level, about 5% between the years. We have particularly focused on the recent training of teachers, on nurses, and on resource science at the University of Akureyri. I believe this emphasis is very much involved in the way the fund feels about these matters. I believe that the University of Akureyri did a tremendously good job in the approach he has developed about advancing education in his country and how he has handled his affairs. Regarding the police study, I believe that's a pretty good job. But of course, I notice it, like a cot. A senator, the demand for it is considerable, and not all who reach it. This is something the university council has to do better. However, the legislation of the legislator's financial resources and sonar that the bill may be able to meet this growing demand.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u8	Thank you very much. Minister very much for good answers. I'll tell myself that the University of Akureyri wants to take more studies and that they might be focused on the BA degrees out of it. Then, police officers, because we know that the world has become quite diverse, specialized, even transitioned, and therefore beyond the rocks. What's top of my mind is that now the demand is high. What is it that stops? Is it government funding, or is it just the operating posts that are unable to receive more students?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u9	A respectable president. As I told you in my previous answer, we have made a considerable amount of money, but this is something we just have to take a closer look at. Of course, I hope that when there is such a demand for a study, it can be arranged in line with the funds the university receives. I'd also like to mention that we're making a big effort with regard to housing needs and the defects that have been identified in the University of Akureyri. I think we're doing something good, but I notice that as a matter of course. A senator mentions and will further examine the cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u10	A respectable president. Indeed, it will be said that a certain force followed the highest force. Minister of Education into the service. I'm sure I speak for many when I say that there are many ways to live up to its policy and visions of academic structure. So it has to be said that, as it is, it surprised me a little, especially in view of the fact that the previous year's initial response. So a minister to me that I didn't have to worry about inactivity, and I thought it would be the case, that in the U.S. Congress Department. There's no mention of any changes in WIN. There are long - awaited changes that students call for, from what I understand, that nine students of the Board of Students worked at the time of the revision. V.E.G. The prime minister at his time appeared with his bill, and then her successor, Illugi Gunnarsson, also had his bill, so, in my opinion, the evidence has actually been examined, all of it is available. A decision must be made about when and in what way to provide a loan bill. School students need to face things like all of us. Students especially need to predict how the system will be built up. How do the payments get paid? What will be a student's housing market? We're called for answers. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will not Ministers provide a bill, as is shown in the financial bill, of LIN until the next winter? It's the highest. Minister to say that we have to wait, and especially students, for bill and song and law, and for the winter of 2020-2021? A whole college degree can be taken up until then. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is the bill not to be expected until next year? Is it not possible to speed up that important work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u11	A respectable president. It is clear that the government is doing very much for the university. We're making a large amount of money to the university level, as I mentioned earlier; the increase is about 5% between years, and now it's all about to reach the OECD average in contribution to each student. It has not happened before, and it is a cause of great joy. I agree with what. A senator that we need a good job and drive to complete a bill in terms of a review of the Icelandic loan fund. Students have two members on the committee, and we have a very good cooperation and a very frank discussion of how to develop the loan fund. However, if I recall correctly, since 1992, I have not had a complete review of the loan funds. Hv. A senator who directed the inquiry to me was just a minister for four years, and there was not much going on at that time in terms of improving the interests of students. Two ministers have attacked changing the loan fund and the reason my bill doesn't appear until 2019 is because I'm trying to learn from what went wrong and how we can do this. In this respect, it is quite clear that there is a flash, e.g. The fact that there are more Icelandic students taking loans from the Norwegian loans than they are borrowing here. I just agree with what. A member of the Parliament that this is a very important matter, which may indicate that we are trying to be careful and look for extensive consultations and cooperation with students and all those involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u12	V.E.G. President. It was now, with all due respect, a long answer to find out nothing. V.E.G. In this chair, a minister gave me six or seven months ago and assured me that there would be no inaction on her part about students. Then you can come here and talk and pretend to do more than ever. V.E.G. Similarly, when he was in the seat of a minister of education, the minister of the sea, the prime minister of the present, and Illugi Gunnarsson's son, he did his part. There are enough data to meet students, and that doesn't mean coming up here and shooting over things. It's a simple question. Do students have to wait for their release until the winter of 2020,2021? We know that if a bill is submitted next fall, it won't go through until some time later in the winter. [[The president calls.]] The minister is here saying: "The students have to wait because perhaps it is so that a minister does not have the full support of the governments in order to run this case through. [[The president calls.]] I encourage ministers to impress on this matter, and students need answers, not some strange thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u13	A respectable president. As I have clearly explained, there is a very clear plan on how we are going into this. I've been very transparent in all my answers, and I've always said that this bill was coming in 2019 because this case has been very difficult. It's been really hard to come across this case like a dog. A senator knows. Speaking of operations, we're doing a lot of education. We're modeling education policy to the year 2030. We're making a special effort with regard to industry, industry, and employment, increasing funds in this regard. This project management in relation to LIN is very powerful and offers some practical suggestions for us to finish this matter. We've finished the 25-year rule, and there's been a lot. With regard to the recent training of teachers, we see an increase in the number of those who are going to the teachers, and that is a source of great joy. We have been able to reach the OECD average for a long time in 2020. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u14	Mr. President. At a meeting of the State Department on February 7th. was presented to the State Department by Trident Junography, and the various aspects of the exercise were discussed. Among other things, some soldiers were spoken of being taken with a helicopter from ships during terrorist exercise and about 200 soldiers were to be trained in the wilderness. Yesterday at a presentation we received on the committee, we had another tone. Even there was a number of them. I don't know if they'll get drunk, i.e. The barges. Thousands of soldiers are expected in the capital, whereby the U.S. military police will be located. While most of what was introduced to us seems to be going to stand, e.g. on Internet safety exercises and so on, it is obvious that some seem to have increased in recent months. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Secretary of State whether he has approved this expansion of the exercise scope. And especially, has this been done under the government? Now I don't believe that we're supposed to pretend that warfare didn't protect us, and of course we're supposed to secure the defenses of the country; exercise is an evil part of it, that is, even. Part of NATO. It may also be a big change in plans, but it's really weird if plans change so much, and I think it's important that the council be made aware of what sort of decision-making is taking place in this category. How was it determined? Who came to the decision? Can we expect more changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u15	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't quite realize what's wrong. A senator is leaving when he is talking about the increase in size. I think it's probably going over. When it comes to this exercise, the line has been just since the first day that it is open and open, especially for the reason. State Department. It is expected that the landing of a Marine will take place in Sandsvík south of the Sleenes Peninsula, along with 300 to 4,400 men coming to land on airships and feathers. At the same time, helicopters transport approximately 120 people to the safety zone at the Cheflavour Airport. I don't know any better than it's been fully informed since it was first introduced and did not recognize it, a respectable president, that there's been some dramatic change in the plans that were in the beginning. Of course, this has been introduced to the highest level. Government, and for what? State Department, like what? A senator knows well. This too has been presented to the public. That's how we like it. If there's something you want to talk about better when you're at it. Of course we do. But I understand that there was an up-to-date meeting with the Committee a few days ago, and this is suggested in a way that both Congress and nation are aware of what is going on and why. We are active participants in the Atlantic Alliance, have been since its establishment, and have participated in exercise as these for obvious reasons. But I'm sure it's all been discussed, whether it's in trouble. A foreign matter committee or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u16	Mr. President. Yes, it's true that we've had a certain presentation on this and we've got a 7th of February, as I traced it before, and someone else yesterday. The difference between these two presentations was primarily in this growing number of ships. There are 30 of them yesterday. If there are 120 or so soldiers, we are talking about four on a ship that sounds rather unrealistic. It is important that all such information be given clearly and effectively. I believe in the highest. Minister when he says he wants to look for transparency, but I still have to be aware of that: below the highest. The prime minister who is chairman of the National Security Council, who was in charge of this plan from the beginning or is primarily at the highest level. Secretary of state?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to repeat what I said earlier, it's assumed that a landing force on the Sandvík south of the Smokey Peninsula will be undertaken. In the country, over 300 to 4,400 people come on their zeppelin ships and barges. At the same time, helicopters transport about 120 people to the safety zone of the Keflavík Airport. I assume this information has been introduced at the moment. State Department. It is not now that a case such as this is going on without being introduced in the government and, of course, for the Supreme Court. Prime Minister. It claims itself, and it doesn't have to be said. But with the question: Yes, it is not that a foreign minister is hiding a government or a supreme. Prime Minister of this kind or so. I don't feel like I have to say it, but when you ask, it should be pointed out more clearly. Of course not!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u18	A respectable president. I might sound like a broken machine on the platform because less than a year ago I talked about the exact same object, the Smokeyard, on the top. Secretary of transportation. Smokeynes Way is one of the most accidental chapters in the country, and we thank you for having a different road meets Straumsvík, but the town government of Hafnarfjörður remains to conclude and, by permission of the President, I'm going to read here: The Hafnarfjörður government of Hafnarfjörður insists that the Ministers and Generals see to it that in a new and revised road plan to be submitted in the autumn council, funds will be assured to engage in these urgent projects on the Rhine Way through Hafnarfjörður. ... In recent years, the number of tourists who pass through Leifs Station is unprecedented. That fact, along with the growing population of Rhinenes, and in Hafnarfjörður, traffic through the Rhine Way has multiplied. This pressure on simple roads through Hafnarfjörður has led to severe traffic accidents in that section and more and more accidents. Is it clear, then, that a double attack on that section is no longer possible? The situation of the road is well - known, accidents are frequent, and traffic is tremendous. Then I ask the minister, How shall I redeem this section, and the way of the way by Cappakika, and the way by the way of the brooks? Also, I would like to know how to solve the problem even if the problem has been doubled, even if everything is blocked. It's totally blocked every morning, from Straumsvík and out, as we know. The program has been removed from the surface, which was scheduled 30 years ago when I left for Hafnarfjördur. There seems to be no solution to this problem, and I ask the secretary of transportation if he has any excellent solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson's inquiry. It is true that he says, we discussed this before, perhaps not a year ago, during this term period, about exactly what solutions would be possible to solve traffic knots and increase traffic flows. And especially on the Smokey Way, just like hell. A senator mentions, one of the greatest roads in the country, and unfortunately, all too long, accidents and even serious. I hope now that the transport program will be scheduled for a discussion next week, and we can, of course, take a better look at this. But because of him. One senator asks: "What are the solutions of the road being designed and all of these solutions ready for consideration? " That is the question of priorities. In itself, I don't want to tell you what this will do to look like until we introduce a transportation program so that everyone will have an opportunity to stand and sit at the same level as that. I've said it's obvious that when an accident on the land costs us 40 to 60 billion a year in traffic traffic, transport, we put the most emphasis on driving security in a new transport program. There is no secret and a part of solving it is just dealing with the most frequent and serious accidents and the major road weight. So next week, this will become clearer when we hope we can discuss the transport program at the council. It's about the upper road as rough as it gets. A senator pointed out that there might have been some way around, such as the thickest, that is, the organizational affairs of the rural community. I think people need a little bit of a long time, the next 30 to 40 years, and they figure out how the traffic is going through and past the capital area. Not everyone has a way into the downtown city of Reykjavík, and as a result, there is some way to get by.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. - Special Secretary of Transport answers. I would have wanted the big road plan before the council so that we could have taken a closer look at it. We must realize that the time has come for us to spend one or two hours from Refrunk to Reykjavík. And again, one or a half hours from Reykjavík to Hafnarfjörður, which was the cause of pollution. This is unacceptable for the next 20 to 30 years. I just can't believe it, and I don't understand why we haven't started to deal with that problem. There are always talking about the cost of accidents, tens of them if not hundreds of billions. There's a big accident well, and we've got to stop it. But we must also think rationally. Is it normal to sit in a car for up to an hour and a half to two along the way from Hafnarfjörður to Reykjavík? I'm just saying, Guð help those who are coming all the way out of Smokejanes. How long will it take them to reach their destination? They have to go through Garville and Kopavog and may be on their way out of town.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u21	A respectable president. It is true that one problem, especially in the capital area, and especially on that route. A senator noted that traffic flows are not good enough. That's because all too many people are going in the same direction at the same time. It may well be that a mechanic cannot quite solve such knots. Schools might, e.g. start another time, possibly later. They've talked about our young people needing more sleep. Would it be wise to start high school a little later? With a flexible schedule of work, you may be able to choose when to leave and get to work so that not everyone would be traveling at the same time. Not to be overlooked is the fact that it may not be wise to have all the largest workplaces in one place. It may be wiser to have them in more places, so people go in two directions rather than everyone going in the same direction at the same time. There are a number of ways outside of roads that could solve dams, so to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u22	The arrangement has been agreed on. Prime Minister has 12 minutes to history and three minutes after the discussion. The debate class then divided between members: Group 15 minutes, Central Party 15 minutes, Independence Party 24 minutes, Piratar 14 minutes, Front Squad 16 minutes, Group 12 minutes, Refusen 12 minutes, and Left moving 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u23	Mr. President. It was one of my first jobs to appoint a group of men who would have to discuss building trust in politics and the administrations in order to make a general decision as to what we can do in a systematic way, how we operate on the political scene and on the political scene, how to strengthen confidence and what fundamental factors must be in place to promote confidence in these factors. Some have been critical of these matters and have said that there is little point in appointing a group on these matters. Senators and politicians all have to act well, and this will happen on its own. But I don't think that's the right approach, because we here and we're working, of course, need to watch these matters systematically, i.e. how we wrap a frame around the system to further strengthen confidence. Then we are all human beings who operate within this system and act in all kinds of ways. It is not my job or anyone in this room to determine how this behavior should be done, but it is important that we agree on the framework we consider acceptable. It was the job of this group, to help us make suggestions on how that might be. I want to use the time I have here to review these suggestions. I will then listen carefully to what the members of the Parliament say, for it is not that it is all about one person offering suggestions that are then accepted or rejected by more or less parts. Rather, it is an assignment that we, in this group, come together to see what frame we should have of our work. Customs for members of Congress are, for example, a code of ethics. A relatively recent phenomenon. We can wonder, then, philosophically whether we feel the need for such rules. I certainly say yes to that question because very much of our profession is about our ability to weigh and evaluate, taking a stand from certain moral standards. They vary. Today's moral standards are not the same as they may have seemed normal 20 years ago. The same is true of all social issues. For example, not long ago, homosexuality was immoral. It is not long ago, and it is still debated about who should be moral standards when discussing abortion. How heavy is the standard for a woman's right to have control of her own body in relation to the right of the unborn child? Typical moral questions we know have changed from year to year, and policies and currents have a lot to say. Likewise, certain moral matters must arise in our work here. Then it is important that we get the best sense of what we want to do. In fact, that is the first suggestion of the committee I instituted, that we shall be attending a so - called Ecstasy Table. Many have wondered, " What is my integrity? ' There is an increasing debate in the world's institutions and in our neighboring countries, i.e. that local governments, including management agencies, set up a set set of criteria for integrity in the way we operate. OECD has been very early in this discussion and believes that this is one of the key elements of a democracies community, that we agree on how we define a particular task frame for our work. The report then suggests that there will be a review of the Ministers' Code, the staff of the administrations and members of the state. As I mentioned earlier, it's not a suggestion that someone else makes rules, it's a big deal that we talk about it here. We should then take that discussion further, for it is, of course, only a brief discussion here, in which we deal with many issues. We'll talk, for example. together to see if we're okay with the code of ethics that we've signed as members of the Parliament and put in this envelope after our signature and what our professions believe is that this code of ethics covers and whether it's something we don't think it will cover. It is also suggested to set ethical standards for assistant ministers and possibly other groups within the administration. The figures are about transparency in the exchange of public information and information rights. It's really amazing when you read the story how short it is since that thought came -- it's only natural that the public should have the right to know what is happening and that the public and the people should have equalit against the administration, and if I can remember, it was two years before the administration. It is quite a matter of time since that thought is expressed in Icelandic courts, that it is normal for people to have the right to have information. Since then, we've been rethinking the information laws once. Their review is now being resumed. Among the things I will suggest, as the information law is under my department, that this institution, the General, will be subject to information laws that it does not do today, the same will apply to courts. It is also part of the proposals made by the Committee that there is a policy on how we want to communicate information to the public, that it is more initiative in the way information is transmitted to the public rather than to the public. I was discussing it here the other day. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson to the information legislation in Norway is designed to form a more progressive information legislation that we see in Europe. It is strongly suggested that governments take the initiative to publish information so that the general public does not really have to ask for it specifically. It is part of building trust, so that there is more transparency. Economic and interest records are then proposed by the Committee, i.e. set clear and consistent rules on the protocol of the application of interest ministers. The committee specifically looked at registrations involving other factors, to form the debt of those outside of what has been called personal debt, i.e. Homes and loans as I have understood, but they also include a mate and an illegal child. I know this has been discussed at the council Presidency Committee. It is my opinion that these rules do not necessarily have to be the same for Ministers on the other hand as for members of Congress, since most ministers have a double role. They are in the role of the legislature and, on the other hand, the executives and politicians. It is not surprising that they have more demands on interest registration than for members of Congress. Then I'm particularly looking at the rules of interest registration for marriage mates and minor children. The only way that I know the most about it is that I could not be anywhere else in the North countries. One of the things I've noticed about the discussion, perhaps starting a relatively new subject, is what the committee calls communication with interests of stakes, that it needs to define who is considered to be a interests officer and set rules in dealing with such parties. Similarly, the committee suggests that there must be a time of cooling, as is said between those who take action as a politician and work for stakeholders. We live in a small country, and I told the chairman of the Committee: It's just that I go swimming in the water and I get into the hot tub, and there's only one interests officer sitting on this side of me and another interests officer, if we can put it that way, on the other side of me. Of course, we start to talk about all kinds of things. We're going to talk about the state of the road system, the status of the fishing road, the position of sheep farmers. This is just what happens in Iceland. Maybe that's what's so beautiful about Iceland. I said, shall I then record this? Went swimming, met this guy and that one, talked about this and that? No, of course it's not about that. And, of course, this is about our using common sense as well as discussing these things. However, this is a matter that has been discussed in many parts of the North, but it is not necessarily a rule elsewhere. The rules are the most clear in the countries where the prices of interest are most important. Take, for example, as from the United States, where largely paid for political interests by sponsoring political parties and individual politicians. Happily, in our country, we have decided that it is the official democratic duty of the government to support political parties, that it is a democratic obligation to support political parties, but in the same way, we give private donations to political parties and secure transparency in that contributions. I think it's a much better system. This, of course, means that this relationship is different from that of the United States. Of course, we need to discuss it here, and I'm interested in hearing what the senators say about this relationship. Of course, we do know that at the same time, we have considerable consultations in early stages on government bills and put them in so - called consultations, which I hope they will. The members of Congress have already studied, and we see that they are the primary stakeholders in sending in reviews of such bills. There are not necessarily the people in the hot tub who start sending in envelopes about primes on the consultation puzzle. There are other things to do too. I think it's a debate that we need to open up on the land as it starts somewhere else in the North, how we want to see it developing, and that my goal is primarily to be transparent. The Committee reports that a minister's attempt to open his diary is one experiment in this direction. However, it is encouraged that we place a clearer framework for that experiment, allowing for what is precisely in open journals and what is not. I'm going to run here fast over other suggestions to form on the protection of the informants, but I'd like to inform the council to work on that bill is started on the Committee of some Ministers for improvement in communicative legislation in the area of expression, media and information freedom. It is also about the public society. I'd like to specifically mention the advice that, I think, can make a difference. It's Iceland, so we're also looking at what's done well, very well in international comparison, when it comes to preparing legislation in terms of how it is prepared and with whom it is consulted. Iceland has been going up very fast all of the lists that we're using all our tools and tools to improve our consultations in the past. That's a lot of pleasure. Then, in particular, we will discuss the Management Board and the administration. A discussion about this is very often focused on us politicians, since it's us who are on the air here all day long at our work, but that's not true for the board's staff. Of course, it is very important that we also look to the setting of clear rules. Because I mentioned here to work for interest groups, it's not just politicians, it's just as true of those who work in the administrations, not true, who work in exactly the same cases with the same access to information as politicians at any given time. This is a thing I think I've been having a little talk about. If we're going to talk about politicians, we must not forget those who also work in the government. But is it all about our being all impossible? No, I want to reiterate what I said in the beginning, it's not about somebody else telling them what to do or we're all doing something wrong right now. I believe, however, that having this discussion in an open way is of great value to all of us. We can have some opinions on the proposals of the Committee, support of opinions, whether we consider them to be good or bad, to benefit or not, but it is very important for us, in any case, to go through this discussion because our work is so important to society. It is important that we have confidence in our work. It is not acceptable how successful it has been to rebuild trust after a collapse. We know that there was a lot before a crash, much more than to be photographed in our neighboring countries at the same time. However, we would surely have all wanted to see this trust build up more quickly. I think we have a chance at that, even. by drawing close to this discussion in an open and objective way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for setting this issue up and for an excellent talk, too. Of course, the majority of the country do not have confidence in politicians and the Generals. It will measure, for example. much less than in any other country in the North. It is thus certain that losing it is relatively fast, but it is very difficult to build it up. This report provides excellent suggestions, and the Union will, of course, support continued work on the basis of it. Better protocol. For communication with stakeholders. Better information, more consultation and transparency, that's all we should be able to do much better. I think that the changes the staff may suggest in the report not only benefit the public but, in time, will be good for us in politics. We'll get a clearer frame and a more specific reference to support. However, there are some things that we can do right away that do not require reporting or time - set estimates. I think we just have to talk about it, including... We need to be clearer and more consistent. First of all, it is not credible to give the people the credit and then betray them. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Neither do we make a national bill, nor do we give any opportunity to apply it. Second, I think about the fact that our neighbors in the North countries seem to be more content with taxes they pay from their wages than do Icelanders, despite the fact that the taxes are not the least lower. They likely feel that the distribution is more righteous. They feel protected by things that matter, and they may benefit from them, and they may see better at what money goes on. Third, consider the fact that the interconnection between business and politics is not to be that it is in some way subject to doubt that politicians are involved in their public interests, not in the interests of their own interests. Fourth, I think the people in Iceland sometimes have the idea that participation in the election is similar to having a good time. It's almost two months before the election rains, e.g. Promises from us to voters. Ideas are explained and the importance of princeship. Now I do not belittle the complexity of the multicultural system and the need for all to take their highest standards if they are to become desolated in government. But sooner or later, Mr. President. A category that defines itself to the longest left in politics can come up with a government with a group on the back of the right. For example, only 3% of voters wanted left-greens to see the group in control with the Independence Party and 12% with the forward party. This, however, became reality over a month after the election. I do not claim that this is the only time it has ever happened, nor do I assume that my party is excluded from the criticism. However, this does not result in the loss of confidence, Mr. President. Fifth, research shows that there is a strong link between trust and responsibility. In fact, in Iceland, politicians have claimed that there is no reason for ministers to resign even if they become aware of a serious crime simply because it is not a custom. In the end, though, it is the ability to break bad traditions, to break up bad patterns, even though doing so may prove difficult, which may be necessary to restore trust. Therefore, it is suggested by the United States that we maintain the work of all members of Congress and Ministers, where we discuss trust and morals in a similar arrangement and that we discuss at the beginning of the year matters that concern #methoo. I think we should put it on the schedule right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u25	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. She's important, and I thank you very much. Prime Minister for her input earlier. What I wanted to do in this discussion, and in connection with it, the importance of the government being a good example and a position of authority in government affairs and their implementation is now not spoken of as taking up the law they have given in terms of the government's affairs. This is vital when we speak in terms of political trust. Sadly, this leads to a failure, causing the public's confidence in politics to weaken. Official financial laws went into effect on January 1, 2016. They're even. aimed at ensuring the strong and responsible administration of public funds. With the law, the budget should be historyd and actually used only in times of distress. Recently, I read in the news that the Secretary of finance, on behalf of the state's budget, is going to lend 500 million to Iceland. K. and that it should happen through the budgets. As usual for the government, you get news like this in the papers rather than through a financial committee that is the legal channel. The budget should be used only in case of emergency. I don't think there's any need to look at a few aspects of this company before the government fund lends it to 0.5 billion that we don't know when we're gonna get back. This case has never been presented in a budget or on page 30. The budget bill considers borrowing, loans, and national responsibilities, and does not contain a number about 500 million. Only a few days have passed since the financial bill is released, so the secretary of finance is going to lend 0.5 billion that is not mentioned in the bill and no authority is available. This loan is supposed to be on the budget bill and nowhere else if there's any other way to lend that money. That's what I'm talking about. The minister of finance is certainly not qualified to increase his confidence in the government or government laws. Then there is the annual bill of the state, which has not yet been published, at the same time as the public community's communities have to pay the bills at the right time. Governments must set a good example, and they must exercise authority over the financial affairs of the State, especially when it comes to public activity. Failure to do so results in widespread distrust and anger. This summer's Theocratic Ministry Meeting is a fine example of mismanagement of the financial affairs of the State and of public work. The cost of the meeting was 100%. Has he gone by people, and shall have no wonder. Patients are sent abroad to perform operations where they are three times more expensive than in Iceland. The wealth pays for a private company of less than 3 billion, a tunnel that the common people must not use, at the same time as projects cry out in many parts of the highway system. Mr. President. Sadly, in many areas and during that time, the lack of discipline in government matters will never increase the faith of the public and the trust in politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u26	V.E.G. President. Here is a report on how to increase confidence in government and politics. I'm never going to be a bit negative on this subject. I believe that confidence and belief in politics will not be increased by more regulations, by some independent authority to determine whether members of Congress or politicians have followed some moral code. I don't think we'll build confidence in ourselves, politicians, unless we do something ourselves, each one of us. To me, there is no meaning in putting many rules on paper, most of which are blurred, slowly facing out and interpreting out and south. I've often wondered why trust in politicians and politics has really fallen everywhere, not just here on the land, but still, people have been increasing transparency and providing more information. I've often wondered about all the information people get, all these rules: Could it be simply a loss of confidence in members of the council? They become more part of the discussion, you can get so much information that you just turn out. Each one interprets it according to his nose. Political discussions are increasing, suspicion is increasing with all community services, and trust is getting lower and lower. I don't think trust will go up unless we do better ourselves. All these rules have no meaning in my mind. However, it is good to discuss morality here, how we should behave. All right, let's talk about what's normal. What is normal about saying in this hall? Then let's talk about it. I have no objection to all interest registrations, it's very important for people to know what and what interests we have, but by setting up complex rules and concealing so independent people, even in college, to be some sort of decision-makers - men have proposals that some law must be -- then I think we're on business first. Then trust and faith in us will simply reduce even more - and we cannot do so. I think the discussion is good, but I think we should all look at ourselves: " What can we do better?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u27	Madam President. There is a legitimate lack of confidence in those in authority. This is the Western era of collapse, and today the French Times and financial press in the world say that the problem is financial failure. We also know that a large part of this is the information technology that enabled us to get past the government and the media media, avoid that medium management of interpretation and the communication media. This clearly enabled us to see the corruption that has always been there, and of course such legitimate distrust produces. People want to trust. We all want to trust, but we just don't want to trust in blindness. That is why it is so important to advance the transparency, and it will be discussed in this report. However, it is also important that we be able to leave responsibility to those who show confidence. This report has virtually no discussion. Let's discuss what's discussed in this report, I'm going to do it. Others have discussed what is missing in the report, and there must also be a part of this discussion and some suggestions made by the prime minister. I believe there's a real integrity in this, to improve the situation of mistrust in politics and government. Step one: This is being discussed here before you continue working with it. That's a good step. Let's talk honestly about what is missing. The report is clear in that both governments and the Generals need to register the interests of those in authority to reduce their distrust. The report puts it this way: It is the part of political and administrative politics that inspires the most popular hostility in society. Also says: ▪ If criticism is not handled and not taken seriously, it is a measure of corruption. We have to respond, and we hope to the highest. Prime Minister will. But this must also be done by the Council's presiding committee and the president of the Generals. There are tips in that direction too. The correcting of the government's interest log so that a person can really trust it is responsible for a prime minister in the government, the President of the Council on the Presidency Committee at the council. The prime committee has been working on reforms, but since this work is still needed to meet the requirements given by the committee, which gave this report of trust, there is an essential basis for the public to trust members of the council. The work of the Presidency Committee is not up - to - date. The party of Pirata concluded this and sent the President of the Generals and the media this morning the resolution, which is as follows: In view of the findings of a group of prime ministers on the advancement of political and administrative trust, the Prosecutor's comments on the interest of the members of the Parliament suggest that it be considered more carefully by a prime committee. The Congress of Porta also suggests that the Council is a good example and is fully introduced by the Generalate's Committee on Depravity, GRECO.156. We have not, inculcating them, according to the proposals of the presiding committee. The report says that it is not fully installed but beyond. If we are really going to be behind this public trust or the distrust that exists in politics and administration and to correct it, we must set a good example here at the General Assembly. The director of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, what do you mean? paritaprevir The Helga Vala Velgadóttir, took the initiative to get authors of the report to a meeting this week. It is important that the committee settles the matter in a way that they conclude something about it and that this conclusion is discussed here at the conference, so that we continue our discussion, that this is not just one short part of the program at the council, and somehow this will get out of the way. That's what could happen at the council unless we're watching this, and we're on the board of directors and patrols calling it a conclusion, we're moving on and we're going to have to come back here and we'll talk about it. Right political distrust is one of the most important issues of the day. If we look around, we will see the cost of distrust. All of us, therefore, need to work together professionally and faithfully. It still seems to me that the prime minister is doing this faithfully. We'll see for sure how it responds to my information here and the comments of other senators today. What can be done better now, and fully, according to the report? What is lacking in this report in order for us to gain true trust, at least more legitimate trust, in politics?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u28	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a report by a group of prime ministers on the advancement of trust in politics and government. Thank you very much. The prime minister's excellent review of the report and the fact that he submitted it here. Now that this report has been published, is it not a simple process and we have a solution to the current situation, a state that describes a great lack of confidence in politics and government? Probably not. The results of the report work group are that, according to surveys in this area, countries are more insecure than the rest of the North countries and in part, lack of policy blame. Here it has not been sufficiently well considered to shape the overall policy of political and administrative integrity and the lack of follow-up of measures. It is noted that while social trust is greater in Icelandic society than in many other countries, there is no apparent evidence that social stability is a lack of trust in governments. There is a problem that can have unpredictable consequences over a longer period of time. The work force certainly offers suggestions. They are divided into eight main fields and 25 unique suggestions. Some of these require laws, others require that governments set up specific rules, but it also shows that most of these measures require only a willingness to perform them and priorities in harmony with them. With the will to weapon, we can, in effect, find ways to resolve and implement them. Rather, the suggestions are based on earlier discussions on national and national matters of trust and integrity as the basis for good government and democratic governance. This report is based on the work of international institutions, such as OECD and GRECO, which are established institutions that provide counselling to governments around the world. Scholars'studies show that there is a strong connection between trust and responsibility. They also show that government manners and practices strongly influence the public's view of them and determine whether trust is growing or decreasing. V.E.G. President. Confidence measurements are primarily based on viewpoint scans asking people to answer questions about attitudes, aspects, groups, or issues. Such measurements certainly provide limited information, but they provide a specific picture. But the strange thing is that although there is a lack of political trust here, it does not seem to have a significant impact on campaign participation. According to measurement, our conduct and conduct in politics have a direct influence, and this clearly enables us to improve the quality of our lives. In no uncertain way has it been demonstrated that key factors of distrust involve faith in government ability and public service on the other hand, in harmony with values and behavior. Pronounced values are actually respected. That's normal. According to the results of this report, there are four ways. Number 1: Governments need to be prepared to accept clear principles and, in effect, apply them. Sure. Number 2: Big projects and events that receive much attention are new to show that such principles guide decisions. Obviously. Number 3: Political leaders set a good example, e.g. with increased transparency, and showing willingness to share important information with the public. Don't you think? Number 4: Criteria are the same in the whole system of directors and protect all alike, elected representatives and staff administration, as shown by the public and the local authorities. This is not really complicated, and it has been a few good steps toward following these routes, e.g. by opening accounts and having more information flow. But we have a problem. The fact is, lack of trust will mark all discussions and attitudes toward the government. There's some kind of error in all of this. I tend to believe that most people who give themselves to the political bitch will start off with good intentions and want to be useful to society. But the discussion is in the process of e.g. In the General Assembly, there is a collection of self - interest eggs that will carry other options for an uninformed group of professionals. That discussion is difficult to change, but it is in the hands of the generals to strengthen confidence in the Council. We do not do this by talking down the job, not by saying one thing and doing another, not by ignoring the results of meetings about the work and not by entering it. Nor do we do so by always agreeing on everything. V.E.G. President. In fact, Iceland is measured in the highest countries in the quality of life surveys. We're in a strange place when it comes to talking like we're in cold water when there's something else. Let us now consider how we will stay among the nations and how we will keep our arms around all our people. To this I believe that it is important that we make use of this report as a guide to reform.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u29	Mr. President. You ask yourself: " Will it take long to find an explanation that people have limited trust in the Generals and the government? We have confirmed that 10,000 families have been driven from collapses, fathers and mothers with their children at least 30,000 people, 3,000 personal currency failures, and 116,000 interest companies. Would the individuals who have experienced this have given them reason to have great confidence in the Generals and the government? How resistant must a person be to feel the sting and bitterness of the people who suffered the financial efforts of those who lost half of their worth, and the inflation without the aid of the General Assembly or the government, without covering for them or building up their armor? How many people are still in a kind of debt prison, such as the chairman of the household's Habitat Association has made such public declarations? Homes are at the expense of housing as a factor in neighboring countries, insurance with control-free housing teams that suck off billions of homes by billions of billions of dollars each year. You can't hear the snuff sound? Should people have confidence in those who are responsible for this? There are tax increases, some for good reason, or to pursue international goals, which have the sidework of raising the principal places of people who cannot handle their heads and, in the same way, raise loans, bring up new demands to financial institutions, legal requirements, where all the power of the justice system is behind them. Should humans have confidence in those who continue this system? It is seen that the lowest income is taxed, although it is not enough for forwards according to government standards. Should they be trusted in the government? One sees the impairments, so - called vacation markets that prevent people, older people, and pensioners, from improving their interests in the strength of self - survival efforts with increased work. Is this arrangement a special source of trust in the Council and the Government? There are 30,000 Icelanders who live abroad who are not offered anything in return but who become debt slaves to their insurance policy. Specialists from abroad see no apparent welcome home to contribute to the health - care system and in Icelandic society. When such matters are arranged, should confidence be placed in the Generals and the government? That's a long way to count. As for confidence in politicians, I would like to quote to Bjarni son of Benediktsson, one of the greatest political leaders of the country during the past century, Prime Minister of the Revolutionary Board of 1961 and 1963-1970. He said, with President's permission: Of course, if we are political, we must seek the confidence of the people. Part of it is probably personal ambition, but in some cases it is inevitable a requirement for the benefit of his work. How, then, will trust and undeserved kindness be maintained? I've never seen anything but one way to do it. She's working for trust. The people will not be told to trust anyone. A man's trust must be found for himself. With a good article or a good talk, you can impress for a while, reach and do so much power, and precipitously, but you will never gain trust unless you work for it. So many were words. To them, nothing is to be added.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u30	Mr. President. The introduction of this fine report shows that government manners and practices strongly influence the public's attitude toward them and determine whether trust is growing or less. Furthermore, the scholars'research shows that there is a strong link between trust and responsibility and that governments do not succeed in suggesting to the public that the operating system is in the hands of qualified people, elected agents as well as personnel in the administrative system, trust cannot be created. Similarly, it undermines good government practices that the appearance of politics and politics alone and that mistrust, deserved or not, insinuates the potential for government success. This shows how a vicious cycle of distrust can develop. Mr. President. Trust is the focus of this report. In discussions about distrust at the highest level. The Minister of Justice of the Last Parliament said the one standing here, including, by permission of a president: Trút and responsibilities are big words and rich to contain. Trust and responsibility are often used in connection with each other. ... We trust people in something, they have our trust. We often do things that people say and we trust. That's worth your trust. Sadly, people fail to trust us. It says one thing, but it does another. This will keep us from the things that matter. They say that they did everything they could, but they don't. The opposition to trust is distrust. When someone betrays our trust, the result is distrust. We don't trust the person anymore. ... Faith has been broken. People are responsible for their actions, and they are to render an account. That is a universal and accepted truth and one of the basic components of our community covenant. Sometimes people claim to be responsible for something. Then we will trust in it. It is often called to shoulder responsibility. ... People lose their responsibility, or they claim to have accepted responsibility in some way that is completely meaningless. Mr. President. Unfortunately, we have many examples of politicians saying one thing and doing another. Before the election, it's a full report: we're never going to the government with this group. A few days later, a government board with the individual is set up as if it were nothing. There are elections for gold and green forests, but in time the green forest turns out to be covered. An invitation to a meeting that will cost 45 million is at a rate of 87 million. In the discussions here, strange words often come out, sometimes in dissension, sometimes even in an effort to be smart. I don't like it, and I don't think it's to increase confidence in the council to like sitting in custody listening to a political discussion in this room, especially when it's said on the same day and re-arraising a case in which civilians were falsely kept in custody for two years. It is no pleasure to speak such words from this chair. President. Trust is earned. We politicians must earn trust by our words and actions. There is no report or suggestions from people who release us. It doesn't make complicated regulations either. But that does not necessarily mean that there is no need for rules, at all. I agree with that, with the highest. With this report, the prime minister gave this talk. President. The work group is well reported, and many interesting suggestions have been offered on improving regulations, information input, and procedures. We will, of course, take a good look at all of this and support what is being observed. This report, as well as all the suggestions given in this brief discourse, need to be brief. See chapter 3 of this report on transparency and communication. It introduces the vicious circle of distrust mentioned above. The vicious circle is that governments are reluctant to provide information and intolerance in order to provide information causes suspicion of the information being provided. There is a greater demand for access, as they say. The information that comes from the institutions is interpreted on the worst route and the information causes suspicion. Because the information causes suspicion, the institutions fear to provide the same information. Then the vicious cycle continues. I think here, first of all, there needs to be a change of mind. The principle is, of course, to provide all the information that is possible and access to all the information available. Information is so that men try to steer them out of their institutions - there are espionage agents, I'm not bringing down the fine profession, but I've felt that information agents in the management system are primarily responsible for the loss of their own lives, Šdamage contaminants. They usually speak only when the situation is at hand, and then they begin to try to save the government or minister from the trouble he is in. This is what we need to change, and here we need to take the initiative from the government, and this is what we're supposed to do. Finally, I want to mention only what is said about dealing with stakeholders and interests. In our community, we are always dealing with power and influence. That is where access to those who bring it is of great importance. This involves a measure of corruption in the event of differences. Sometimes it has been said, I hope it isn't the case anymore, that once you got in the Ministry, you thought that there was a doctor's living room, because the stakeholders go from one room to another and tell the government. That's why I think it's obvious that we have to examine this relationship very carefully, and certainly it's so that we meet people in the hot tub, and it's hard to approach all of this together. The first step in this report is that men are recorded and held in a somewhat detailed account of this, because the real danger is that the hot tub will discuss a number of matters that will then be taken through the administration. This must be dealt with, and the only option is to inform all government communications and stakeholders.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u31	Mr. President. Indeed, I came from the mountains of the General Assembly, directly from my first search of Thomson's Thomson rights with a brief arrival in the corral this weekend. My hardworking farmers kindly shook their heads over this attraction to be in Reykjavík for a week, when a large sheep farm is busy in the fall. But they can see through my fingers because I've always been so weird that I'm getting used to it. After all, some think that this could be fun, rewarding, and challenging work, since the image of this workplace, the Generalis, is negative. I can sense atheism and lead to the politics, and I felt this lead, e.g. Almost tangible in the apathy of the last two elections. I've been a considerable member of the local government of politics, and that's also where this effect is visible. People don't feel like thinking about it, they might want to come up with some viewpoints or change things, but they're supposed to be running around. They don't want the trouble with this, the hard work, the small or no pay, and much and often, personal and unreasonable criticism. In rural politics, especially in small communities, the presence can have both advantages and disadvantages. The benefits are that elected representatives are usually short - lived, that of the people who know the person, and that they can readily discuss matters and promote viewpoints. The same approach, however, can also be negative. In small communities, elected representatives are very often being either baloney incompetent to the various issues of relations and relationships with the people who become involved in them or in very gray areas because of much contact even though they fell outside a law code of inadequacy. This wide range of relationships and closeness can create both an increased risk of corruption, and so much better, it can raise an unfounded rumor of cousinism and questionable practices. These scare people from participation in rural politics, no one wants to be boring to relatives and friends, and no one wants to be accused of discrimination and dishonesty. Then comes the link between local government and national politics. There are votes and other dealings with members of Congress. Year after year, the same unit of directors meets the same members of Congress, and they share the same wishes for the same emphasis. The senators are filled with interest, understanding, and good will, and then it just happens a little more year. The electron lines remain as phase, the beacon is removed from the call of a foamy sheep's bloodline when poor network connections toss him out of Fistra for the fifth time on the same night as on the highways, the bridges will be as cremated tomorrow as they were yesterday. Then, because we do not understand slow government and financial management and lack of financial management, the religion of the members of the council and the members of the council paraphernalia paraphernalia paralyzed because at present we do not understand the slowness and the lack of financial resources. Of course, with our human nature, we also feel that our priorities are always set in the interests of all others other than ours. The fastest way to blame for the laziness and treachery of members of Congress and the failure of the ministers is to do so. You can see from the news media when a meeting begins during the day. Don't start until you're ready. 13 Draws people who came to work around the time. 8 a.m. Tomorrow, the conclusion is that the people in the House were in the den until noon, because it is easier to conclude than to find out what work is actually involved in being a member of Congress. Now it would be nice to have answers on our part to improve the faith of the public in the politics of the country, but unfortunately, I don't think there are any magic solutions. It is extremely fast to lose confidence, and it occurred in the 2008 collapse, with the change, as well as a talk of politicians. On the other hand, building trust is a long - range project, with the strongest view, being able to refer to a process, designed to keep free of corruption and nepotism, and used to cope with criticism and to provide specific information. People are suspicious and judge what they do not know. Information and open management are in my opinion what can slowly and slowly turn away from this, but it is difficult to find out in all the information and entertainment flows that come in the public. But, as one of my rurals often said, "It's a shame not to try. "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u32	A respectable president. I thank you for the time and need of this discussion, and thank you very much. Prime Minister, a fine talk. And I thank you for the careful report and suggestions of the staff I believe are improving. The widespread lack of confidence in politics and the general council is particularly a major concern, both in itself and in the long - term consequences it may have on e.g. Our command ship. Such distrust may eventually spread and reach the very self of democracy with the relative faith in the sudden solutions of a powerful leader who offers to take care of all of this for us. In his book Kingdom and political logic since 2013, philosopher Páll Skúlason said that politics should be a common conflict for all of us rather than a conflict of interest in power, as we are tamed into politics and practice it. Páll, by permission of the president, says: ▪ If there is a serious trust between the rulers of the state and the common people, the State will stop ensuring the common goods, for the state itself is by no means a trust, a state of law and common morals. Here Páll reminds us that the Kingdom is not some unspecified person, the rest, those who constantly try to dress us up, or who take money from us, but it is quite normal to view the Kingdom as a form of the community of all of us with whom we share a common assignment. The work of politicians is about this coordination and how we in the community share our goods and burdens. It's a service job. This is a confidential situation. As we sit here, we are sent forth as representatives of certain opinions and ideals. This is what we are expected to do here in their spirit. 48th. True, the Constitution says that the general council members are bound only to their own convictions and have no rules from their voters and have often referred to this article when they have turned away from their party lines, but this is not quite so simple in my mind because I believe I am committed to the people who send me in here as their representative and expect me to work in the spirit of their outlook on life and ideals and fight for the interests that these people feel I should take care of. For example, by calling attention to a fear - inspiring situation in the transport sector I represent and is certainly not unnecessary in my own district. But at the same time, make sure that we always keep public interest in each other. This awareness of public interest, which must always be awake in us, is in harmony with Páll's son Skúlason's idea that politics is in the foundation of the common conflict of interest between us all. Of course, other interests may conflict frequently. It was a time when members of the council were also represented by voters to administrations and institutions, paid the streets of their voters in banks, and wrote on the exchanges, allowing access to the limited quality of the ocean society. Perhaps a little bit in the spirit of an arrangement that was present in the country of history, the deity. The general of the council was like a god who cared for the interests of his clients, who, instead, showed loyalty to him and formed the wall of the god's army at a time of war when he needed it. An election, in effect, is a form of conflict. In time, this role of the god - made god has been shifted from electionmen to other people, perhaps in some instances, eaters who have all the plots in their hands, now or in the celebrations. Showing respect for members of the council has similarly diminished. Yet, the tremendous distrust that exists for the council cannot be clear in this way. It has other and deeper roots. That's where we all need to take a look at ourselves. We need to look at our habits and habits and discuss them. There ministers do not resign, even though they are advised to violate the law. Here the government does not respect the results of a national law. These institutions often view information as a form of military service. Here we have an example of employees and sponsors working for financial institutions selling their expertise to financial institutions, i.e. the access they have had to confidentiality. A general assembly is by nature a battle scene in which things are handled and are usually resolved. It is not our responsibility to agree on everything and not even to reach a common conclusion. We need to deal with the different basics of life, but we need to do so faithfully and objectively, avoiding speech and mischievousness, evasion, and nonsense. No one is required of respect or trust in the power of his position or office. Neither do we. You need to be reassuring and confident. You have to tell the truth. Only promise you will fulfill, say what you know, and know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u33	A respectable president. The case we're discussing here is very vivid to this government, a government that was primarily designed to exchange power, divide chairs, and agree that each class will break its votes. Instead of doing what could really be the result of increasing belief in politics, political trust, i.e. To keep the promises, to live up to the promises made to voters, that created the government for the exchange of chairs, and then made a commission to promote trust in politics and government. It is naturally completely affordable, respectable president, and semi-orwellish in nature, as well as the suggestion that men are above themselves to imagine that someone might want to get involved in politics to do something good. It is as if you are expected to go primarily into this business to get a chance to cheat, and therefore the role of the inspectors is merely to try to prevent, as far as possible, that politicians cheat on one thing. What, though, is the objective of this code? Jón Ólafsson, president of the Committee that prepared these suggestions, has explained this. He did so in writing in 2009 when he urged the Jóhanna - year - old Jedi Sigurðardóttir, who was then aware of its existence, to agree with ethics on the first day. Why should this be done? Yes, because, as he explained, the best way to change the practice and government culture that the Independence Party has established in the past 18 years is to establish a moral code. The code of ethics is about preventing or twisting from the independence policy of the Independence Party; it is such an independent policy; rules that teach us how to avoid independence and to eliminate it from the government. In view of the fact that we have this definition from the man, two years later to write about the moral code of the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and have become a moralist of this government, it is interesting to consider some of the laws of this government. I refer to proposals for the so-called ongoing education of staff at the Board of Directors or officials in general. Then, for example. to strengthen the Board of Directors to teach how to avoid independence. It's supposed to be a pre-school program for government employees. They should be taught to recognize the presence of independence policy in the management system and the content of a constant discussion within the system so that each one will be equipped to identify if the offenders arise and the policy of independence is at some point beginning to penetrate again. And then it's the foundation building. This scholar suggests that the Agency will be temporarily assigned, in the beginning, to provide counseling on moral issues and that, of course, funding for that operation will be ensured. The last thing I remember hearing from the National Institute of Moralology on what we politicians should do was that we should be obliged to accept the Icesave requirements, because the Icelanders would have a moral obligation to pay these requirements, whether there was a legal obligation or not. But, well, now that I've said it's been accomplished by the highest. Prime Ministers to pass laws on what steps to be held back and preferably to keep independence from ever going back to Iceland. The continuation of the Agency's proposal is that a civilisation agency will be committed to the follow-up of this report; it is, in fact, saying itself, of course, that it will not be entrusted to any elected representatives. Finally, it is said that a committee or unity will be set up within the administration with the specialized role of individual employees, including advisers - ministers are naturally just employees - confidential advice on moral matters. In other words, they offer to explain life and life to the stewards, how to behave, what is moral, and what is not, when they have entered an independent course. That's quite an achievement at the highest. Prime Minister to put it through a government placed under the cover of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u34	Mr. President. It has been most enjoyable to observe today's discussion of this report that takes the initiative of a prime minister on how we can strengthen confidence in political and administrative matters. Of course, some have used the opportunity to strike political cones. I was hoping we'd be on a different level today, but let's leave it between things. I'm not here to criticize people for taking advantage of the opportunity to do that. Trust is the primary requirement for all human relationships. That's what it means, like any other part of the community. This pointed to Gunnar Hersveinn, a writer and philosopher in a fistist that appeared in the February 1995 issue of morality. He pointed out that trust keeps mankind together. A world without trust is a world of deception that will soon pass away. Later in the fist, Gunnar wrote by permission of the president: ▪ Officials stand and agree with the confidence they feel. Customers choose those they trust best with the power and money. Politicians work hard to prove to their voters that they are worthy of trust and if they fail, they are rejected. Honesty is their principal position, and the fewer who creep into the shadow of corruption, the stronger society becomes. The less human trust, the more conflict and conflict becomes, the common people stop trusting politicians, the doctors' patients, the cast of the shoe, and the increasing of lawlessness. What a disaster it would be if drivers stopped respecting the rules of traffic! No kingdom or system can resist unless one is able to trust without anxiety. The more human trust prevails, the more stable and healthy the community becomes. Trust will do so.◯ As Gunnar pointed out, we are united in the matter of law and order, and we have been united in a recorded and unregistered moral code in human relations. I think that when we look at it all, perhaps the unregistered standards of morality are much stronger when it comes to how we associate with one another with one another with respect and build trust in one another. We want to be confident that laws are honorable, and the only way we can deal with others is by being confident that we can trust those with whom we associate. So trust is the red thread in all our relationships and the basis for a healthy society, as Gunnar Hersveinn noted. But trust will not be earned by law or by rules. There will never be a law that the public will trust us who are sitting here, or anyone else, whether the media, scholars, or any community institutions, labor leaders, or executives of big companies. Trust is earned and will never be legal. By their conduct, speech, and actions, people earn trust or lose it. There is the danger of more complex, more detailed legislation, creating or creating soil for suspicion. There are some ways in which the laws and rules have become less stable in society. All we need to do is look at the laws and regulations on the social security system where there are complex rules, confusing and unfair income connections that have led to unfashion and cost, and the experience becomes a dominant injustice. We have, though, managed to correct some of that, especially those of older cities, but we have work to do with microorganisms. I think that the example of the social security system and the complex rule is just an example of how laws and regulations can create soil that is fertile for those who want to build up or plant seeds of suspicion and distrust. Consider another example. There are many Icelanders, at least Many of the voters I talk to, who are filled with suspicion that the administrative alert will be lifted by the so - called third energy package. However, I have been told that many in this room and beyond it do not understand why the European Union's Directive on energy, which we speak about in the everyday language of the third energy package, would be introduced into Icelandic rights. It may be that opposers who confirm the third package of energy not all base their arguments and all their opposition to legal issues but, to a considerable extent, emotions, and emotions that contributed to our efforts, including them. The 100 - year - old goal of becoming a sovereign kingdom. When we take it to heart later in the winter, we discuss it in the Senate Hall whether it is proper and wise to discuss it. I beg that we also approach the matter so that we understand and perceive that there are not only legal aspects to guide this, but the feelings of the common people, feelings that we are taking care of their interests and national interests against other countries. If people have a feeling or believe that we are not doing so, their trust will be diminished. Trust in these topics will not be built up by reference to a legal opinion. By the time the daughter of Katrín, Jacob's Jakobsdóttir's government, many people had doubts, shook their heads, and prophesied no long days of life for the government. I pointed out that compromise was the key to the ability of two or more groups to work together and to produce results. All must yield, accept failure to fulfill all promises made. The groups that have come together in this government had to, and they did, and they set their mark on the course but are at the same time protecting their ideals in spite of the media. Reasonable compromises are essential for opposing political groups and political opposers to come together. Its premise is that a confidential and secure state between the old political opponents because we will thus be fellow workers and will fulfill the promise to share with one another in the unforeseen, solving, and problems that arise and that all governments will have to face. As I look back at the end of this election period, my hope is that this government, a government of different categories, as different as it is here at the council, with its work being able to bridge this gap and work together for the common interests of the people of the country, has just been able to do more to increase the confidence of the public in us politicians than any rules that will be recorded here in books.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u35	A respectable president. In a report on the advancement of political and administrative trust, Presidential permission: It is obvious that trust in financial institutions and the legislature is low. Such distrust comes from the 2008 financial collapse, which, overall, had a negative impact on the survival of organizations. The lost trust in 2008 has not been regained. I cannot help but agree with this resolution by the head of state, especially the financial institutions, to protect the public's interests against greed and fraud of money lovers, along with the dishonest and enormous ties between governments and commerce, the high trust the Icelanders had for the government. After a collapse, the public saw each fraud after another, not just the one that took place in the wake of the crash, but the traitors of politicians to the citizens up to today. In this regard, there is a betrayal of promises of national law on the continuation of Memberal discussions with the European Union. There was a betrayal of the legalization of a new constitution adopted by a good majority of voters in a national law, and this was part of a fraud that revealed that many of those who lost their pension money to the public, the strength of the inside of society, their work, and the pay had fled from the tax industry and left the public with the bill. It became clear to all of us when the Panamas became public. The documents that also revealed that the three cabinet ministers of the then government had property in the tax industry. Who took responsibility for that prayer? Perhaps the prime minister who fell from his job but otherwise did not accept the consequences of the conflict of interest that he concealed his people? A respectable president. A report on the advancement of political and administrative trust also shows that scholars have a strong link between trust and responsibility. If governments fail to indicate to the public that the management system is in the hands of qualified people, elected agents and staff administrations, trust cannot be created. In view of this obvious conclusion, I must ask how the existing financial minister, who himself is one of the ministers who kept property in the tax industry, can still enjoy trust as such. Is it really possible that I would ask how the Minister of Justice, who concealed sexual abuse information on the raising of credential pedophiles in a series of information laws to protect the wealthy minister of the past and present, can still have confidence as such, not to mention the violations of the same law as the court order of the court? A law against taking any responsibility has been violated by the Minister of the past, and, at present, has refused to take any responsibility. A respectable president. These ministers, now and then, are not present today to discuss their role in the advancement of political and administrative trust. They're gone, both of them. This may be a symbolic, respectable president, for in my mind their permanent absence from the Ministerial class of the next year would be an important step toward strengthening confidence in politics in Iceland today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u36	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a report on the advancement of trust in politics and administration. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the work that has taken place with this report, and especially the discussion that has taken place here, I feel that it has brought about the complexity of the link between developing trust. It is difficult to earn trust, it is a difficult task, and may take a long time, just as it seems to be lost very quickly if things are not handled well. We experienced a very strong experience, as the report shows, when the financial system collapsed, including confidence in our main institutions, in politics, in the administrations and in us, well. Generals, and the work we do here to make important decisions. This is a serious matter, and we have kept asking ourselves, " How can I regain confidence? ' That's why I welcome the work that's been done. It was one of the very first jobs. Prime Minister. The password has been very clear in the discussion, a transparency in all our jobs, and I can agree with that. There's a lot of discussions about the causal relationship with responsibility, and I can agree with that. I think less has been discussed about what I say is the core of this report, which is a suggestion that a government would take a course of integrity. I thought of two fine leaders in our time. One was temporarily president of General Electric, Jack Welch. He said in a book he published that the password in the success that that the company achieved at the time was complete, open - minded in culture, manners, and relations between parties. The number of employees in that company is now similar to the number of people in Iceland. Another outstanding sports leader, Alex Ferguson, says in one of the books that deal with his success, the key to success is his integrity to all involved with the Society. I don't think it's done much in the discussion, but it's the point of the motion, that we're going to set a policy on how our brains are reflected in all our work. I think it's the first and largest task of the council to create this challenge, whether it's written rules, laws in information laws, or other laws, that we make this manifest in everything we do, in all the ways and culture that will color politics and administration for the future. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Jón Ólafsson said: "It seems to me that the prime minister is doing this faithfully. I also have this belief and further that we will achieve the results needed in the consistent effort that is truly there - and the will has not been lacking - to strengthen confidence in society, politics, and government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u37	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion, which is designed to build confidence in politics and government. The opposition to trust is distrust, you don't trust anyone, you don't trust him, and politicians have repeatedly gained credit for trust in the public. They don't trust them. It's obvious that no matter how much or how long we talk about this, we can talk a lot, but we are expected that there will be no more measurements in the political science class. As always, it is a work, not an intention, in these matters. I cannot be understood as opposed to discussing this subject, for it is in itself useful, necessary, and in order to increase understanding of people who are one of the cornerstones of a good society. It is not only the political class that is responsible for the lack of political trust. There, too, the media bear a heavy responsibility, how they carry out political news, what they throw their lights at each time, and even what they choose not to do. The introduction of public use by social media has also been very effective. The discussion is often angry and harsh, dejected, and harsh. And while people do not participate in this discussion of community communication, they are infected by them, and individuals are divided into groups. Everything is colored black and white, men are either gods or monsters in social media and good discussions, often torn down by so - called soft - blooded Internets that appear in many places, causing metropolitan talk to take a little time for wonder. I agree with the comments of some earlier speakers, who link less confidence in politics and politicians with the collapse of the bank, that there is a rift of trust between a number of community groups that are not at risk. Here was a great deal of anger after a collapse, the very foundations of society failed or bowed down. The belief that banks would remain forever in this country, although they broke their heads in the midst of it, was ◯Ammundy. People lost in the instant of their savings that they had placed in their own communities. The result was an increase in mortgages with a decrease in the value of housing, unemployment, a decrease in pay, and a loss of home life. It was a battle for all the majority of people. What made the work out was the result for the homes. The loss of 10,000 families after a collapse is a shocking fact that we face. The financial institutions were above the top of political priorities and faceless hedges were undecided to let the demands of the homes be taken care of, and they walked hard under the cover of the state of justice, but their homes had no or no defenses. There, the government broke the country's homes, and the insurance is still out, waiting for the next inflation shot. The insurance is working every day. For who? Why isn't the insurance cut off? Why is the index site not removed, a joint that alone raised home loans of 118 billion while other teams have raised it by 15 billion each? Five years? The answer may be that governments do not have the courage to stand by their homes, that is, through the financial elements. However, governments here speak as if heaven and earth were removed. A law book set up 40 years ago that had no models, specialized experiments, has given financial institutions a superior position to homes in the country with known consequences. Why is the activity of investment banks and business banks not separate? After a collapse, much was discussed that it had to be done and had to be done and needed to be done. Why is this not done? Why hasn't there been anything to do with it? This lack of confidence after failure has not been resolved. What can we do? Prime Minister appointed a team to do this. Everyone should conduct himself well. Is this just something that we see living in the future? It's not good to say. It may be said that now, at a time when prosperity is highest, no greater peace would exist if the prosperity had subsided. The answer is at least it does not mean that inequities increase, since large groups of people have to live in a pension or pay considerably below 300,000 dollars. At the same time as even government remunerations have seven or eight times their salary, so I don't talk about a number of other superpays in the private sector. All the things I have mentioned are not designed to build confidence in politics. And how do we build trust? Public negotiations are clearly one of the responses. We have no doubt that we will pay more frequent attention to national agreements. I think there might be part of a quest for solid trust. We are not to be afraid to ask questions. But for the record, Mr. President, it is most fortunate to always try to do our best. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u38	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion here on this important matter that is involved in political trust. I think it's good to bear in mind, as has been shown many times during the discussion, that trust is earned, including by showing responsibilities. Trust and responsibility always work together. We can set up all the rules we want, squeezed around, and captured them in any way we want, but if we don't live by the rules we set and do not work in harmony with the spirit of the rules we set for ourselves, they are of little value. I am pleased with many of the things that have been done here after a collapse in promoting political transparency by sharpening the interest logs, ethics, and other regulations that we would like to operate as politicians, whether for a minister or for members of Congress, but there are very little if we don't cooperate with them, if we don't act in ways that we respect these rules and make good use of our work. I may have two main concerns. These are not only the rules we follow but also our attitude, our approach to the subject, and our approach to one another. People can cope, disagree about many things, but do they approach with respect? Do we respect opposing views? Do we take pride in the fact that as politicians our ability is to paint the image that whites are black or blacks rather than simply to discuss matters honestly and openly and to show respect for the fact that people may disagree with us and that we may even be wrong, even change our mind or admit it when we make mistakes? I think it's all too uncommon. Acknowledging mistakes, correcting them, and simply acting honestly is a measure of political weakness. It is the honesty of the exchange that eventually breeds trust. Taking the responsibility when we fall victim to trust, not that anyone expects us to be completely unhuman, that we never make mistakes, or never do anything wrong. I think it would be to strengthen our confidence in the council if we were to approach our subjects and responsibilities with greater humility and to be honest in our dealings. Many of the rules we have set for ourselves, e.g. When you look at the management board's information song, it's very good and it's the same. But do we really live by that rule? Why do we always run away when inquiries are received on the basis of information law? Why is the Council's first answer somehow self-improved, even though it is known that there is a obligation to provide information? The Ministry is well aware of what they are not allowed to publish, and they are to do so without compromise. It breeds trust. People must always consult the Committee of Information to get information, even on the smallest issues, because the answer appears to be automatically no. It is good to bear in mind the issue that led the government to a court period of over a year when information was being pursued for weeks and months. [[The president calls.]] I think the core point is that we need to approach our responsibility with more humility, and we need to act in harmony with the rules we have set for ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u39	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for this report as well as for those who have spoken today. This has been an interesting and vital discussion for us to deal with. Many were referring to the sovereignty anniversary, and 100 years ago or so, there were few republics in the world, some 16 of them. Today, according to Freedom House, just less than half of mankind live in political freedom. A hundred years ago, there were very many rights that we believe today. But with holes and balls, with nods, with gusts in the Icelandic way, Iceland has continued to pursue an increase in prosperity and rights. When a four - fold hur was called to the administration house for the new sovereignty, only a few years had been lifted by law, 1894, the last European Union was to do so. By the time of the century in Iceland, men had the right to vote, if they had property, but women and workers over 40 were allowed to participate in the republic. Poor people were to be exonerated if they accepted rural strength. The rights of men, women, people with disability, homosexuals, queers, and other extreme groups have been won by their struggle for equality. I'm not necessarily sure that it was trust that led to these rights being obtained. They were mainly fought by people who had nothing to offer, nothing to sell but labor and time. It had solidarity and strength for these things. And according to the headlines of old newspapers, such as a surly mob attacks at the Council, there was not necessarily much confidence in the big political lines of the den, as it was today. This does not change the fact that trust is the cornerstone of democracy. This is reflected in the report that we are considering today. It also shows how serious it will be to the democracy if there is continued distrust, whether it is a lack of confidence in the public as an institution or distrust in this hall, between us. Let us not think that in Iceland we are immune to the cruel age that now strikes the West. In our neighboring countries, in France, Germany, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Britain, and the United States have been established. How important it is, then, that we take this subject very seriously and be happy to have the opportunity to discuss it today. The report shows that long - term understanding of government policy has a negative impact on trust that there is just some reference that can be overcome at the next time when a new government takes over. It's not easy. But we've been moving in the right direction in this regard. Plans are being planned for longer periods of time, thereby living by governments. That's good. However, this too must be done in order for the peace of long - term schemes to exist. It is vital that long - term peace exist. Secular democracy is the best way mankind has ever invented to settle issues and make decisions. Instead of my going now, I scored, e.g. Yeah. Brynjar Níelsson's armoury on the east side, we are able to negotiate the fundamental issues we disagree on, and we share them. We make a covenant, and we stand by it. On this rock, there's trust. If that is not the case, we always call on basic decisions and, during the time, very little happens. No decisions, sir. The ship's down and fired. But the responsibility is all of us, who sit in more part of our time, but it is also partly in the hands of part of our time, in the manner of speaking to politicians sometimes here, whether we sometimes called self - image politics, to drive the nation down into ever - increasing groups and to glorify ourselves at the same time, or to try to build bridges and emphasize things that unite us instead of things that divide us. Because we work together more than ever in transnational cooperation with various major cases, I find that autumn is a good start. There's been another blow in the discussion here, and I think the Senate can be a bit pleased with that. Prime Minister did well in having this report won. It is also symbolic that this was one of her first works, an act of mind and action. We're going to get the best of what we can do, the list we can find in the report, but at the same time we need to be careful with that job. I urge all of us to go together for this work, be ready to look at ourselves and have a desire to cooperate, for trust in politics is the subject of all of us, all of us in this room as well as in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u40	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the discussion presented here. I think it's fine that we discuss these matters at the council, even though I don't see that this fine report adds so much to what has been said, written or done about strengthening the public's confidence in politics. This is a fine summary of the ideas that have been developed, and it certainly points out ways. But I think that on the basis of it, we have a problem with ourselves, how we speak and how we do things. Not that we need special rules or concerns about how we work and work. There are good rules for today regarding interest logs, information and things that I'm, of course, very relevant; opening the records of II, etc. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurðsson's estate built confidence in last night's General talks. He did very well. That is just what we need to keep in mind, words, and values. It also measures trust; what we say before we go, what we say when we are at work or working on it, and how we end it. It matters. In effect, the discussion has been cleared up in many respects. Most of the subjects discussed are already under way. But I'd like to say something. paritaprevir Empresses, Níelsson's son, discussing that it is not necessarily binding on the laws or rules of conduct or conduct of successful people. We've already seen it. We have certain code of ethics, a code called a seminary that speaks of how we should treat one another. Yet, this program of talks, notably with other members of Congress, issuing all kinds of ulterior, illogical statements, falsehoods, and such. This, of course, is what detracts the credibility of the institution we work for the people. I think that each of us needs to look inside and wonder if we can possibly be responsible for the loss of trust. Rules do not correct the way we talk about one another, the way we talk about the Generals, or the way we act here. There are no rules that will keep humans from giving out all kinds of crap that no reason can support. Of course, it is best to be honest and honest, to be truthful, to live up to the promises, and not to speak up to one another. I think that's what matters most. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson made it clear in his speech that we are in the ministry. You're absolutely right, we're in the ministry. We're in the public service, we're serving the people who choose us, and we have to answer for them every four years because it's a temporary job. Our recruitment in this work is just temporary. We don't have the life to stand here and work on it. As a result, it is the people who prefer us to judge us every four years or at shorter intervals - those who have been employed here for less than four years. Every four years a judgment is passed, we go back to the staff interview. If we haven't made it, we won't be rephrased. That's the way it is. A respectable president. I'm not going to stretch the paws on this report. The report is fine, but it adds nothing to my knowledge. But it may be a question whether those who did that work -- it may not be nice to reduce the credibility of the people in this public assembly, but I allow myself to doubt that they were clean when they came to this work, as has been shown today. Scholars, such as others, have expressed themselves in various languages, and this colors their normal work and opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u41	V.E.G. President. In this discussion, many things have been well said, and members of Parliaments have been present in many places, as it would indicate when such issues are discussed. Much of this has been done in general, general reflection on political status and political and administrative trust, as indicated by the opportunity to discuss. A certain person has lost his life in popular or political gladiatorry. That was so, too, to be expected, but perhaps it was less than you could have imagined in advance. However, there has been a lack of this discussion to discuss the points that are specifically discussed by the news editors in their text. It contains a discussion of some points as well as some suggestions that will come to us for further discussion if adjustments are needed or included in a government where rule is needed, or so on. Perhaps we just have to keep that discussion to the point where there are some suggestions. In effect, the aim of taking this committee's report to the Hall was to discuss the suggestions presented there. It's just that we'll review the unique suggestions there is. However, if the goal was to get a general discussion of political, political, and other matters, that was to be true to one's word, and so on, it succeeded. That's what's been done here. I agree with members of the council here who have spoken and noted that for us as for everyone in the community, it is good to consider their position and position of the institution we are working for. It is good for those who are involved in politics to consider why political trust, apparently, has declined widely in this country and significantly in other lands, but the circumstances may vary somewhat. Yet, the trend here is not unique. We do well to ask ourselves, " How can I as politicians help to build more confidence in me and my work? ' Likely, for a politician, little is more valuable than having confidence. It is possible to agree with what was observed in more than one person, including some of them. Good for you. paritaprevir Please Heiða Ásgeirsdóttir's Guðný daughter, that is, of course, a long - term project. Perhaps the most effective way to build trust in a longer time, as mentioned in her talk, information, and open management. It is important that decisions are made openly and that their reasons, arguments with and against, lie in wait and discuss openly. I can say things others said, e.g. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça, said that trust does not necessarily increase the fact that councilmen stand for days and speak up about trust. This does not happen that way, that is, the actions of men, and the deeds of those who give confidence in a longer time. To beat one's chest and talk much about such things serves little purpose if there is no match to the real human progress and work. There we ourselves, the politicians, are not necessarily judges to one another's fault or naturality that the standard laid is placed in some established environment, ethics, or such. As politicians, we seek the authority of voters, and that is where the evaluation needs to be conducted. We are to put our work in the judgment of those voters who authorize us, who can support what we are doing, have a low opinion of us or much, but it will be reflected there rather than that mentioned by the council or the management board as an agent on the issues that may be considered in this regard. I think I'll make it my final statement because I'm not going, like most of the others here have spoken, to go into the individual suggestions of the group. As soon as it is important for us to take this sort of conversation, whether it is in a chamber, in committees, or in other places of ours, to consider how we can do better in our activities, how we can become more trustworthy toward those who have granted us the authority to serve here, we should avoid having overconfidence of establishing commitments, commitments, these factors. I think a certain overfaith in this can in some way lead to false security, that since some team has been picked up, which says that there is a code of ethics to consult employees, things are all right. On the other hand, I think this kind of discussion is positive, and on that basis I want to thank the highest degree. While serving this report at the council, the prime minister granted me the right to have all sorts of opinions on the individual suggestions that have been made in these subjects when they come to this point in a future discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u42	A respectable president. The report we're discussing here is fine. In my opinion, it is minimal effort to want to introduce the ideas contained in it. However, it is not a political document, and it does not address the political issues that determine confidence in governments, such as. the material as easily as possible. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir mentioned earlier. I'm going to mention something else, but that's an example of what I would like to keep in mind a lot of speeches. Our goals are often available, not to do what is needed to achieve them. The problem is not a lack of proposal to build trust in politics. Rather, it is that too many politicians are against them and have gone on for years. I got a lot of inspiration from a talk. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson earlier. Although it may be funny, it is said to be truly true. He asked if all this transparency could simply increase suspicion. And like many questions why. The senator made me think. First, though: If transparency causes suspicion, it is because objects that are not seen before. Then the solution is not to hide it again but to move it to a better source. Further defenses do not seem to be necessary for transparency, but the question of whether transparency can increase suspicion is much more interesting because the answer is probably yes for the above reasons. What was once hidden from the glorious splendor of the mark is shown suddenly as it really is. Governments have always bathed in a certain glow of glory, and when the common people see that it is an illusion, of course, the confidence is reduced - and here is the point: Rightly. In fact, it is a mistake to trust governments in general today, and so it will always be. Governments are essentially self-centered power agencies that are only forced into the interests of the citizens. It is a little strange to say this to independents, but I have often found that there is a contradiction in the way the Independence Party paints itself in the fight against government clones at the same time as it shows the greatest resistance to support and countervelopment against the same State. I think I know why. It is because he knows the institutions of the State out and in and has had authority over them so much of today's history that it is quite strange for him not to be in the government. I don't name the Independence Party because I disagree with his policy or that I don't like him in any way, but because it's been the most prominent of all categories of authority in Iceland for decades, more or less. It has been a dominant force. And powers that rule for a long time will become at home with the power, making it easy to trust that it is handled well. That makes sense to me. I think it sucks, but completely understandable. It'd be weird if it wasn't. What if voters just need what dominant forces need to trust, to control things themselves without having to trust in the integrity of the people who are held by them, and, in fact, by their own mental ambition to reach power? If the voters themselves were at home, they might be more confident that they were treated well. I'm not talking about national pay on every subject, but sometimes on occasion about some matter, from time to time, more than never. It doesn't necessarily need new ideas, since a lot of people have been living for years on public transparency and information, restrictions on the session of Ministers, real segregation of state authority, interest logs, arrangements are supported by candidates, research committees, Ministers responsible, independent state agencies and Congress and national legal requirements. This report is excellent for its bridge. It is also quite correct that people today have said about their attitude, politics, and reasoning style. A lot of things have been said here today that I would agree and want to repeat myself. However, if a body of Congress wants more confidence without trying to get out of Icelandic politicians, it is only necessary to consult the World Council to find a lot of well - known and well - worked ideas, more specifically in the motion of a new constitution based on legal legislation. She won't be forgotten.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u43	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a report by a group of prime ministers on the advancement of trust in politics and government. The aim of the report is to discuss factors that affect political and administrative trust and how it can be progressively increased. When I told my 94 - year - old grandmother that I was living at the General Assembly of Iceland, she slipped and asked if it was something important. I had to argue that it would be that way, yes. And why do I say that? We must not view this report as well as the confidence that people have had in us politicians and the government we reject. This fine report is not to be given under a seat. It should be a guide to us as a living document, and I encourage prime minister in that regard. We, the politicians of this country, elected representatives of the people, need to consider what causes distrust. Let us ask ourselves, " What is the nation's appearance on our part? ' What is the image on this screen? There we all have responsibilities, both greater and less. Everything we do and say creates an image, creating this level of trust. The power is in our hands, and so is our responsibility. You see, politics is about the power and the function of the politician is about the exercise of power. It is easier to have smaller than more parts. It's really nice to come here and see people change their roles. I personally urge everyone to try both in smaller and more parts. It's very healthy in politics. I'm sitting in just a part of the country. Hence, we are in different roles, whether we belong before and after the election. All of us are political people, and both groups here have a very big responsibility. We have a moral code, but we don't discuss it. The Code is merely guided, and we create the politicians. We are not involved in politics to agree, but to decide after conversation, conversation between us, conversation with interest groups, conversations with pressure groups, individuals, education community, etc. This presents a challenge to communication ability, the ability to work with others who disagree. And also, I'm going to quote a great man, Páll Skúlason, by permission of a president. ▪ The political effort is first to ensure that public discussions are done on the common issues of the city, second, to use reasonable means to make decisions, and third, to create a society with a broad variety of human life that thrives and is at peace with the basics. You see, it is so easy to use peace politics and enjoy short - term favors. Rather, be guided by reason and integrity. The politics are the system we have set up as a means of keeping a common subject and interests together, the process of light, and the prevention of corruption, friendship, and cousinry. World interests are more important than economic interests. You see, we politicians are in a service role. The society needs to get out of obedience. The public itself must think about, criticize, and ask for information, even if it is not to be found. All we politicians do is be on the table of the public. It can be unpleasant and even harmful, yet it leads to a better conclusion for all of us. Finally, dear senators: Let's say more about our work, being at a meeting here, a conference there, a workplace visit, seeing people at a nursing home or school students - and showing respect for our work and with the people who trust in us politicians to do good for our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u44	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. Without anyone leaning on it, I found it most interesting for myself to listen to the two viceal council members who spoke up here. paritaprevir The Hjálmar of Hafliðason and what. paritaprevir Heiða the Guðný Ásgeirsdóttir's daughter, for they had only a different view of the assignment we are facing than we, who are here every day. I found that interesting. paritaprevir Heiða the Guðný - given Ásgeirsdóttir said that people often feel that their priorities are for everyone other than theirs. Which, of course, is a big story. And I also found that it was interesting. paritaprevir Bogi of Hafliðason said: It's so good for everyone to experience more and less parts. So I wholeheartedly agree that there are different roles, but both call for great responsibility. The reason I felt that it was important to attack this report is that we watch international standards, the index of social progress, the standard for human evolution established by Matthías Senur and others. In English, it is called the Social Progress Index, which is called "Social Progress" in English. It shows the fine status of Icelandic society. We are if I recall correctly according to the latest number two in the index of social progress. We are also on the list of human developments. Yet, international standards show a lack of trust in politics, despite the results we manifest as a community, no doubt also responsible for politics. We're together. We're together. This must make us think, and what happened next is true. paritaprevir The bear of the Birgir son of Ármannsson, at the moment. Senators did not follow some suggestions. I would have liked more guidance on them. But I can assure you what. Senators that I will continue working on these suggestions, i.e. The ones who come under me. That's why. Councilmen taking the ball in terms of what they hear under the Council and discussing at the proper place of the Committee to Presidents of the II Parliament and Assembly in case of trouble. Congress officials are interested in applying these suggestions to revise the framework within us. It discussed that we did not need complicated rules, for repairs. I want to draw attention to what. Congress officials feel that there are no forms of penalties in this report. Just not at all. However, it is suggested that a professional be counselled. I don't know why. People here may not have doubts and need advice when complex moral opinions arise that require borrowing, as is sometimes said in my home. You see, I do. I envy them why. Congressmen who never experience this doubt are making the right decision. Or no, actually, I don't envy them. Because I wouldn't want to live my life, so I never doubted the options in front of me, especially when our office here is as complex and important to society as it really is. [[The president calls.]] So I think it's a good thing. Councilmen have parties to consult with them. And I was sorry when a consulting committee, a sleeper board on moral standards, was suspended here in 2013. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, then my office. He came up here and made it appear as though there were institutions here that should have a role. They do not have the responsibility of putting us in a position to tell us what to do or what to do. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I know there's a time limit here, but this was a long discussion and it's important to respond to what was said. Finally, I'm going to say here that I found an important comment from what happened. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who said, "Do compromises cause a lack of confidence? " Do voters expect not to be made compromises? [[The president calls.]] This would lead me to conclude from a variety of cases. Senators. It is a subject for us senators if we feel that we cannot compromise without losing confidence. I agree with what. A senator, a fair compromise is one of the principles of political trust. I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u45	The president may be equally angry when it comes to speaking time and begins to be a bell, a light - handed one, but constantly, after 15 seconds of speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u46	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the conversion of Congress laws, electronic transaction laws, and the addition of state funds. The bill suggests that Congress should be authorized by e-mailing along with the routine appointment of a document in a Senate book. For a long time, it has been looked forward to putting the terms into the electronic form so that the technology we have today can be used and performed automatically. Today's Parliamentary declaration is made that documents are sent to an appropriate county agency where they are the reviews and their main points are manually registered in the Senate Information System by an EIC. As a result, the documents are handed over to the head of Congress, which reviews the documents and the registration into the system. If the document was read by the senator, the document's position is changed from a ◯day textbook, as it is first recorded, to ▪ Assembly declared, the original writing is then reassigned to a member of the Parliament, and the agreement is preserved at the office. This process is, in part, electronically, where the Constitution book is electronic, but the project does not offer the application of a candidate's self-exploitation form, as it is scheduled for this bill. The bill therefore provides the basis for increasing the effectiveness of the plagion system by allowing financial institutions and others who prepare weather documents to document the documents electronically in the Senate system. A document will thus not be sent to the county's office for release, nor will a copy or a copy of it be preserved by a member of Congress. Instead, the main features of a document will be written into the system through a special service portal and will be sent to be announced. The system then automatically reviews the items recorded and then examines whether the terms of the law are met for the Declaration. The registration study conducted by the computer system is performed automatically without delay or by the presence of a senator. However, if the entry does not meet the condition of the synonym, it will either be sent to a candidate's candidate or sent to a manual application of a candidate's treatment. I call attention to the fact that there is a warrant for action by means of an electronic entry but not an obligation, and this will continue, at least to begin with, at the same time allowed to announce documents in a traditional way, in the usual way today. This bill does not alter the districts of Parliamentaries or the current implementation of any other form of work, and therefore the Commission will continue to be a member of the Parliament, each in his own jurisdiction, whether it is a Senate declaration on a document or an electronic entry. It is suggested that the application of an electronic entry will at first be restricted to certain types of documents, e.g. Documents as well as other related document types, such as ID change, i.e. weather solutions, mortgages, and mortgages. In Regulation it will be defined as to which documents can be announced by e-mailing and as the experience becomes available in the electronic process, these types of documents can be multiplied without further adjustment. Such a directive would also explain the information required to register for the application of e-mails and other aspects of your career. It is expected that a request for a declaration will be sent to the senator electronically through a Web service associated with the members of the Parliament. The bill also contributes to significant changes in the effectiveness of the synonyms. In order to promote the automatic application of a synopsis and to achieve a rapid aim for e-mailing, it is considered necessary that the priority of the event will be based on a time log when electronic application is made to be made for Congress but not today's delivery date. In technical implementation it will be ensured that e-mailing will be granted the unique timeout, so it will not be possible that two or more entries will receive the same time stamp. At the same time, it is suggested that the premise of the traditional synonyms is based on the time logout at the same time. 21 The date when the document is delivered, which puts e - mail descriptions at the top of a standard synopsis on paper documents. In addition, the priority of the makeup and stability will be to the rest of the documents by means of the bill. A respectable president. The basis for emancipation of an electronic declaration is that the owner's claim under a duly presented pledge is correctly recorded in the Constitution book. Otherwise, he cannot change the requirements of an e-mailing by means of an electronic entry, such as bets or terms change. Therefore, prior to being authorized to announce an e-mail, it is necessary to ensure that the right requirement holder is recorded in a Constitution book. For this reason, depending on the events, the registration should be corrected if the letter is recorded by someone other than the court. To handle this, it is suggested in the bill I recommend here that a correctment of the claimors' registration in a labour book be submitted to conclude that this correction will be completed a year after the law's execution, i.e. March 1, 2020. For this reason, demanding funds is not expected to be paid for by the demands and is therefore proposed to change the law on the increase in the wealth of the state. A respectable president. The introduction of e-mails takes a very important step in developing society's infrastructure and production of digital technology in administrative and business. I hope that increased self - control will bring benefits to all who come to the synods and build their rights on tribunals, whether it's the office of the politicians, demands, or others. So I propose that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u47	Mr. President. Clearly, not many people are interested in this bill. But I'm interested in e - mailing, and I'd like to mention one point here. But first, I'd like to thank the highest. Minister for the premiere on the bill. I think it's normal to set up an electronic profile. In this context it can be noted that in 2003, electronic management was permitted, so now 15 years later we are taking this normal step. The point I would like to mention is the long-term availability of these data. In this context, I would like to point out that the oldest registered document in Iceland still exists in the late 12th century. This document describes the rights and property of the Church of smokehols in the city, and it can still have meaning today. In this context, there is also a foreign - language committee, where documents from previous centuries are very important to the work of the Committee. Back to the 17th century and to the 20th century. It is important to ensure long-term preservation and availability of these data according to the rules applicable to them. It can be costly to deliver electronic data to Iceland's National Archives according to its rules at least for the first time. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he has considered this important point. And if so, whether he has guaranteed the money so that it can be delivered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u48	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and for showing interest in the terms, electronics, and others I might hear. A senator is also interested. In fact, I mentioned in the discussions about the persuasion of Prime Minister that this matter is not very political sexy - if I may gossip, a respectable president - during the discussion. But this is one of the greatest developments we have to discuss at the council, at least in this winter, and it is extremely important to succeed. You're right. A senator mentions, the proselytizing is by nature a legalist. Even for hundreds of years in advance, we rely on the right effects of the synods. Therefore, it is important that these data be preserved well. This complex technical solution has been thought to be in preparation for this bill. This case has evidently become old in the administration, and technology solutions have been under way for ten years. I believe this case has a 10-year anniversary at this time, but it has been turning around in the system, unfortunately, perhaps by the indifference of the politics on this vast progress. However, this has been specifically examined. The project will be conducted by the Ministry of Justice and National Records. A group of people with a technical view of these matters knows that they need to be able to rely on the long - term electronic data. I would also like to mention, however, that it has not necessarily been reliable to keep the data on paper as it has been because there is a serious problem with the storage of the paperwork. How costly it is to keep the documents on paper! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. It is my opinion that the data generated in electronic media should be maintained indefinitely in electronic form. If we start printing data, like, e.g. We lose a lot of the information contained in the electronics. Iceland's National Archives has made surveillance checks on document checks and document management of registered parties. It has shown that public agencies, institutions, and offices lack the funds to deliver the data to the museum electronically. Therefore, I mention this here, that since we are taking this normal step, it will be considered that too. The end should be considered at the beginning. Actually, the end is at the National Archives, where the data are preserved. However, they have, as mentioned earlier, remained meaningful even though they are old and have come to preserve them in the museum.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u50	A respectable president. It is, in fact, of all interest, to consider that targets for preserving data in general. The purpose of this arrangement is two basic steps: one way to preserve documents that still have some significance, one of the proper effects, is to measure up to human rights or obligations, as many church contracts do. Then there is the other factor, perhaps more historical, and completely different. Information data, even if it has dropped out of force and has, for example, been generated. ............................................................................................................................... However, there is a time when humans need to discuss this and decide how long the State is going to preserve such evidence. In addition to maintaining such data, the government has the right to preserve such data. In some cases, the obligation of the State to fulfill this role may be, but in others it is not. Today, we face this challenge when we have developed technical knowledge in various fields. I mention, for example. electronic administration by courts and other sources, electronic data that are stored there. That's a challenge for us now, e.g. with new national rights to make announcements and other features of the court preserved. It is an enormous amount of data, and it is not just costly to store it. It can be assumed at some point that it will be impossible to store. Then, as possible, homes in the country may do every ten years in their storage place. What can be thrown away? I don't think there is a need for all these data to be preserved, but at the beginning, people need to be very aware of the preservation and try to figure out which type of data is involved, whether it is stored for a long time, and take care of it right at the start. [[The president calls.]] However, this work will be done in terms of e - mailing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u51	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a group murder, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and crimes against peace. The bill is presented specifically to satisfy Iceland's national commitments in the legal domain covered by the bill. In particular, the objective of the bill is twofold, one of which is proposed to be a law in order to satisfy Iceland's international commitments under the arrangement of action and punishment for murder since 1948, four Geneva treaties since 1949, and two additional books with that agreements since 1977. There is a Geneva Treaty for the improved treatment of wounded and sick soldiers on a battlefield, a Geneva Convention for the treatment of wounded, sick, and sailors on sea, the Geneva Convention for the Treatment of Warfare and the Protection of Civil Citizens during wartime. The above agreement on measures and punishment for group murder, validated by Iceland on half in 1949, provides a definition of group murder and a recommendation for punishment for crime as well as for participation, experiment and encouragement. As the contract is being carried out on the responsibility of Member States and committed to adapting its laws to achieve its target. Iceland validated the Geneva Convention in 1965, and its addition to 1987. They deal with protection and treatment of those who do not participate in conflicts, i.e. citizens, as well as those who have dropped their weapons. The Treaty includes the contracts, along with the additional 600 diaries, which include: discusses deliberate homicide, torture, or inhuman treatment, severe property damage, and a form of property that will not be justified by the need for military need. The above treaties place rich obligations in their Member States in order to investigate and prosecute for the crimes that are subject to them in the national rights. On the other hand, their validation included no law in Icelandic legislation that specifically applied to these offenses. For example, a general law of penalties does not contain terms for murder or crime of war. Was the position of the Icelandic government far removed from the fact that the laws of public justice were acceptable to these crimes and that they did not consider their own crimes to be criminal. It was thus thought that most of the crimes met the prescribed legal requirements of public penalties, e.g. about killing, harming, and sexual assault. There is also no provision in Icelandic legislation that provides an international criminal penal history as defined in the Geneva Convention. However, the objective of this bill is to enact the necessary legal requirements to ensure that the European Commission can use the full - time history of the International Court of Justice, thereby investigating and investigating for crimes that are under the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice under Rome's release of the 1998 Court validated by Iceland on the grounds of the year 2000. On the basis of Rome's release, a permanent international court of justice has a jurisdiction for all the crimes considered to be involved in all international society, in addition to mass murder, crime against humanity, war crime, and crime against peace. During the 2010 Summit of Rome's release in Kampala, two forms of change were adopted. On the one hand, the definition of the war crimes under the jurisdiction of the court was expanded, i.e. the use of a particular weapon in armed conflicts that are not international. However, Member States adopted a definition of crime against peace and how the court's jurisdiction over that crime was to be practiced. At the approval of Iceland's Constitution of Rome, no. 43/2001, of the execution of Rome's releases on the International Court of Justice. By that law, legal requirements were laid down so that courts and governments on the land would be able to carry out the provisions of Rome's release, according to the commitment of the State. However, the law is limited to assist with the court and its full judgments on the land. The release of Rome does not oblige Member States to investigate and charge on the activities under the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. Rome's release, however, allows for such legal history in member countries. So it is the law of the Court of Filly as it is called, i.e. The court can do harm only if a state of law fails to do so. In order for Iceland to benefit from the full - costume history of the International Court of Justice, it is necessary to enact the descriptions found in Rome's release, but many of these crimes do not fall into any of the proclamations of the Icelandic common penalties. These include war crimes involving the management of citizens in occupied areas. With the aim of fulfilling the national commitments of Iceland and ensuring that Iceland can enjoy the fill-up history of the International Court of Justice, the bill contains regulations on action, punishment, legal history, expiration and implementation. For details, see paragraph 1. Consider a series of murders, 2 Cor. of crimes against humanity, in par with 3rd. of war crimes in international armed conflicts, in pars. of war crimes in armed conflicts that are not international, in Article 5. about crimes against peace and 6th C.E. to the responsibility of military officers and other officers. It is suggested that the maximum punishment for violations against all these requirements be life - giving imprisonment. In terms of an action description, the bill is ensuing a main policy for the declarations of Rome's release. There is strong evidence to recommend that. To begin with, this ensures that Iceland can use the full - time history of the International Court of Justice. It should be considered, then, that since 1977, Rome's law of release is based on the collective contracts and the Geneva Convention. In addition, the approval terms were intended to reflect the current standard in this field. If so, the clarity is also recommended by this method. By means of the introduction of Rome's actions release, international crime is clear in Icelandic courts and their sensitivity to individuals is irreverent. Is this important, in view of the special standing of the crime in which Icelandic citizens already bear the responsibility of national rights for them, both for international courts and for the national rights of the world. A respectable president. Iceland has a clear policy of fighting the insurgents of international crime, both for international courts and for national rights. Iceland was in line for the country of the International Court of Justice. Thus, the implementation of agreements as a bill of national rights is in line with Iceland's policies and countries that demonstrate their intention to counteract criminal insurgent crime that affects the entire community of the nations and ensures that they are actually brought to justice on their behalf. Is such induction also in accordance with the expectations of the states that the establishment of the International Court of Justice and the claims of the Court itself as well as of other international institutions and of the United Nations. I suggest that this bill be referred to after this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u52	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a penal law, a law on private handling, and a law on the treatment of criminal rights. The bill suggests the establishment of a new court, a re-argument, which replaces the Re-Election Committee. The bill of this was submitted to the last legislation of legislatures, but they didn't get money from an General Education Committee. I now submit to the changes that take into account the comments given to the committee under the control of the case. Do they have the greatest reason to believe that instead of the appointment of four judges in Re - Revelation, as mentioned earlier, they will be five. Then two judges will be appointed to replace the advertisement as suggested by the previous bill. I'll take a closer look at the review of the sentence afterwards. The establishment of a review court would make it clear that the court was solely on the hands of judges in accordance with the order of 2 st. The Constitution, as well as the release of such a special court case on whether the Court's final Court, National Court or Regional Court would be finalized and would not bring a review of courts on the basis of Article 60. The constitution. The current command, established by law No. 15/2013, is the fault of the Committee of Re-Electment, which belongs to the European Commission in the sense of Icelandic law, is empowered to resolve the conditions required to restore a legal case that has finally been resolved by the courts and thus to interfere with the redemption of the courts. It may be reasoned that this arrangement violates the threefold definition of the state's authority recommended in Article 2. The Constitution says that the President of Iceland and other governments will administer the Commission and the courts. According to the 60th paragraph. The Constitution is entitled to the Court's legislation on the legal rights of the administration decision and, on the basis of the constitution, the Supreme Court has dismissed a case decided by the Re-Election Committee, because it has not been legally required to comply with the request, as per the Supreme Court case since February 25, 2016, in the case of No. 628/2015. Furthermore, in the January 25, 2017, the County Court of Reykjavík ruled that this arrangement will be in direct opposition to 60 C.E. and 1st. 70 C. The constitution. V.E.G. President. In this light I suggest that a new special court, a review court, replace with the Re-Electment Committee, be established. It is suggested by this bill that a review of the prophecy will be made to a greater part of the appointed courts that come from each of the three judges. It's two ways to win. On the one hand, a greater number of judges come from the hands of the court and thus receive protection of the 61rd par. The constitution so that they will generally be removed only by judgment. However, this arrangement will be followed by a legal hearing in the sense of the Constitution in the same way as social and national judgment. At the same time, two of the five judges of the new court are suggested to be appointed after the ad, coming from rows other than judges, former judges, or court officials. This is in line with the second primary objective of the change made at the time of the Re-Electment Committee, that non - judges will come to the decision of a judicial hearing. It is suggested that the application and command procedure for these two positions apply to the same rules as to a judge's general order as described in Article 12. Justice Act, i.e. that a jury review applications and provide a secretary with written and reasoned reviews, forbidding the office of a candidate whose office has not been the most qualified among candidates, unless the Minister considers it proper to propose a second proposal for the Council, etc. The work of the Committee complies with the rules set out on a 1 mg basis. Section 12. Act of the courts. It is then suggested that three judges be involved in each case and that the judge appointed at the level of judgment that judged the case required to be reused will not one of them. Otherwise, it will be up to the president of the court, who will be under the bill, the Supreme Court judge appointed in the court, to determine how the judgment is put together in each case. If the judge who comes from a court court order fails to represent the judge who comes from a series of national courts in the role of a judge. By means of this arrangement, however, it is guaranteed that other non - office judges will take part in each case, and it is possible, in fact, that judgment will be made from both judges appointed to the premise of the ad, along with one official. However, it is certain that the judge will not take part in the release of a request for the rejuvening of the judgment by a judge or his joint. The bill also suggests an evacuation of private reimbursement. According to local law, the three conditions mentioned in Article 1 need to be met. 191st par. the management of personal matters all to be met in order to re-expose matters. Two of these conditions are unique, as it will be strongly likely that, on the other hand, the situation was not properly identified when the case was presented for treatment and the person asking for a recurrence will not be taught and new data will not be drawn to relevant conclusions. A third requirement also has to be in place is more general, but it points to the fact that there are other cases of permission, including that the person's vast interests are at stake. It is suggested that, while the general conditions are also in place, one of the individual conditions being met are met for the reanimation of the situation, i.e. that an incident would recommend reimbursement and that the person's grand interests are at stake. This leads to changes in the terms of the condition, being guided by clarity. Thus, the conditions of a-joints will include the situations where there is a strong likelihood that new data or information may not have been correctly introduced when the case was treated and the person cannot be blamed. In contrast, the criteria for b-joints will include non-dating cases. According to the fact that new evidence or information has been provided other than the facts, and strong odds have been drawn that they will change the previous court decision's conclusions on important issues. Using new data or information in this sense, all the data or information that could lead to a different conclusion on important issues, including solutions from international courts such as the European Court of Human Rights and the EFTA Court. Then it is suggested that a review of the Court's residence and, likewise, a significant change in the treatment of reimbursement is proposed. They take into account that there is a court, not a administrative committee, and I don't think it's a reason to trace it here, but to refer to the report and comment given on the legal bill being presented. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill will be after this discussion points to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u53	A respectable president. I'd like to direct one question at the beginning of my speech to the highest. Minister to this new bill. As we know, this bill has been discussed before it is presented in a slightly changed picture. In particular, the change is now to have five judges replaced by four judges and two judges who do not come from the ranks of the courts we have in Iceland. The most outstanding statements from the one mentioned here, along with other sources, to the bill as stated last were that a greater number of judges would always be judged from the courts of the land, instead of the greater part of the judges, would be those outside of the country's courts. I felt that this did not necessarily inspire confidence in the rebaptism of the Court because, despite the fact that the neutrality of judges who have not been involved in a particular matter is somehow certain, it does not strengthen the confidence of the city's trust in this resolution that a greater proportion of judges are still judges themselves who work in the same profession and have a measure of the same interest. Our proposal at the time was that at least two would come from the ranks of those who did not sit in the courts of the land. Now I see that there are some reforms being done here, but still there are no conditions for more judges in the rejuvenating court not being judges themselves. I wondered if a minister is open to the idea that he or she is always in more. That it may thus strengthen the faith of the citizens of this city, although it is in some way practical to have one judge at all times, the reimbursement and reimbursement of matters is made of those who have not directly participated in the work of courts over their heads. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u54	A respectable president. Yes, the bill has changed, at least since its last appointment, by increasing the number of those outside the courts. It must be remembered, however, that this court is not a court of law in the sense that humans are in the full - time ministry as judges. One of the changes that we now make, and I really think should have been in the original bill, is that those who come from outside and sit there and are appointed, but are not already judges, need to submit to the same opinion as other judges, e.g. Qualifications and opinions and review procedures. Because it is now one of the most critical things in the court, if I may say it so disrespectfully; perhaps from the street, even though it is not that way. However, that at least someone has a background that can support confidence in the general court work. It is well described in the report that there may be an incident in which a reimbursement in the specified case will be appointed to the greater part of the two non-semitures. That's a possibility. On the other hand, there is a process and that officials will be removed under certain circumstances that could lead to this. I am not convinced of it, nor am I prepared to agree that trust in this court, which I second - note, is not a personal court in the sense that he does not handle material matters, will become more if there are some who are not already sitting in court. On the contrary, I think it is of great importance that there are sitting courts, but not those who sit in the court of judgment, nor those who judge as judges of judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u55	Mr. President. I wonder, then, in view of the answers to the highest. Ministers how the proceedings of all the way to the Supreme Court would be carried out, those who have gone through three points of judgment. Then you might think that each court would have played a role in the matter. At that time, you wonder, " Is it really possible to build confidence in the fact that a greater proportion of those making the decision of re - making are judges who were involved in the initial process? ' They come from the courts that were involved in it at one time. I wondered, at least against the Supreme Court, which is being asked to record again, whether or not to set some sort of requirement that the two involved in the case and be outside the courts sit there at least in the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u56	A respectable president. Whatever it is. In effect, a senator is wondering whether the judgment of the Supreme Court or even of the higher court, or the higher court, would also influence the arrival of a lower judge or at the lower level of judgment. All people require is a return to one specific judgment. The treatment that has been administered at lower levels will not be considered. If you wish e.g. After resurgence on the Supreme Court in the future, if we assume that this case has gone through all three counts of judgment, it is only the Supreme Court judgment to be considered. As a result, a judge who comes from the ranks that do not take up that matter. Of course, there may be some special reason why the Court's rights might not be considered qualified or that they would take their place. Well, that's all for yourself, then. Then, in part, two judges are sitting there. But I got it. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to take a special look at this. I don't think that it's right to consider all the judges or all the points of judgment as incompetent to discuss whether the case has a chance to repeat. Not to be overlooked is the fact that there are certain standards that exist, not objective, but objective, that are most important to them. Besides, I don't find it normal to speak to the judges or the courts in the way I feel. A senator would suggest that the appearance of the judges themselves is a form of distrust in the affairs of the courts. I think we're on dangerous paths if we don't trust the courts to pronounce judgments we certainly do and then possibly to reevaluate the results, too, if that goes on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u57	A respectable president. Much of the country's population wants the government to spend more money on health care and government business. According to the National Research Institute of Social Science last year, 92% of the population wants the government to give more money to health care and to those who have thought of it more than 10% in the past decade. I allow myself to believe that the people of the country are not calling for money, that we take our common resources with caution, but they may want to promote the health care of the people of the country. At the same time, they want health care funds to be well used. The services should be available regardless of the economy and habitats and the quality, economy and security requirements should be clear. That's key. However, there is something else in the social science survey, since 86% of the country's population also wants hospitals to be mainly on the hands of the State, and the ratio has increased by 5% in the decade. At the same time, 79% of them want the public health care system, and that group has also grown considerably over the past decade. At the same time, the population has grown to support private medical care. I welcome the discussion because there is a little bit unclear how people understand what the public health system is. There are differences in understanding of what public health systems are and what they include. In fact, the timing of this bill draws attention. It is so that the Ministry of Health now operates in a broad range of future health policies, an important work. If indicated, the word can be spoken at the highest rate. A health minister is intended to enter the council after the year. Then you ask yourself, " Is this bill being submitted because of a little tension in the government? ' They see that these contributions are directly at the head of a government team, the Independence Party, who sincerely disagrees with them on that matter. I wondered about some things about this bill. Privates provide many health services today. All treatment services for drug and drug users in Iceland, except for Ward 32A at the National Hospital, an addiction clinic, are in the hands of private people. What about dentists? What about psychiatrists? What about psychologists? What about the doctors who are already working? What about the current job? If the results of the health Ministry's policy, with left - green leadership, do not differ. Senators suggest on the bill, what will they do with it? Again, I say I welcome the overall dating that is taking place. But what are they doing and whether some profit is paid out? Should those who are already working today be banned? The union supports powerful, public health systems and wants them to be maintained as necessary. In fact, I think it will finally be strengthened as necessary and so that patients will be given the necessary service, provided that everyone is equal, and that everyone does not have to suffer from waitings at considerable expense for society. And then there will be the need for outside assistance from independent doctors and my experts. I look forward to seeing the results of the work going on at the Department of Health, and I also think that the discussion is very important to us on how we want to see this basic community service.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u58	Mr. President. The bill we're discussing today, about a change in the health insurance law, is a fine example of how I am and what I do. Transporters can come together in government and work on good business but disagree completely in many aspects, including this bill. I disagree with my dear and good friend. paritaprevir Þór Níelsson's armoury, which does not happen very often, although it does, when he says that this bill will not have much effect, it will not succeed. It doesn't just matter which songs we post, but which messages we send. The message in the bill to those working in the health - care sector who provide us with the necessary service and do so on their own, is that we are going to press on to them, and it is rather undesirable for humans to engage in a large amount of private business in health care. I don't know anyone who doesn't want a strong common health system. But I find it hard to believe that there are some Icelanders who are talking about wasting our money together. We are involved in trying to protect our limited resources and to get as much of it as possible. We do not do this by binding on private business in health care and making it hard to believe that after years of struggling to build an enterprise can pay off a small amount of money when it comes to it. We are to build up our health systems by taking advantage of the benefits of having a government in which it is convenient but taking advantage of the benefits and practicality of the personal enterprise where it is convenient. It is clear that private people have an enormously important role in services that we agree that the State should ensure that it is granted, a service we also agree that should be available to all regardless of the economy. I know this is a 1st transporter, huh? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, I agree. Therefore, we are more likely to discuss how we can improve our health care and the practical benefits of our personal enterprise than of laying hands or ties on people who have chosen to do health care, whether they are doctors or nurses or nurses, to their life's work but who insist on having a real choice of what they choose, whether they want to be on their own roads or working within the ranks of institutions that are directed from the State. I fear to bring this bill forward to walk that will happen which I know the transporters are fighting, that there will be twice the health system here. If we don't ban public health service companies under contract agreements with the State, their owners will pay money after taxation, as income taxes made by profit, and also taxes by interest, then those companies that are so important to us will not see any reason to work within the system we've tried to build up and will not want to participate in e.g. Frame contracts or other government service contracts. That's a double system. In this way, soil becomes available for things we have not wanted to see much, which are private guarantees of health care. Then there will be a powerful company where individuals who can afford it will buy insurance and enjoy the services that are outside the traditional government, and they will not have to wait for the service like the rest of us. This is what's going to happen. In this case of medical care, in the way that the bill does, there must be strong evidence to restrict the rightness of the work of certain professions. That would be the case, for example. A doctor who relies on a government contract and serves his patients under the contract is not allowed to pay his money, but the landlord who rents the situation has full freedom, even if it is one of the same man or man. I am convinced, and I believe that if you look ahead to me, you will agree that one of the greatest challenges facing the Icelandic health system is to ensure that talented workers come to work within the Icelandic health system, that young people who are working hard to pursue special education in other countries will see a reason to come back home, share their knowledge and service to us who need our service. One of the factors is definitely that these people have real freedom of choice about how they live in Icelandic health care, that they are not judged simply by the Council's decision to work solely within the state's conflict, that they really have the opportunity to make their own business, to build it up. The pay may be lower in the first few years, as is common when a decision is made to start a business, but it has the potential to enjoy it when it is completed. It is just such an opportunity that we need to make sure that we exist. We must not do anything that prevents the impression that the most attractive thing to do is to turn to Iceland and share in making the Icelandic health system more powerful, even more powerful than it is today. I am concerned about our competitiveness, our competitiveness toward health care providers in relation to other countries. When we introduce some of the limitations on individuals who are not in our competitive countries, we make our competitive stand inferior. Unfortunately, this bill will be the result. There is nothing wrong with individuals who offer a good service and meet all the requirements set out in a contract conducted by a surgeon under the supervision of a surgeon who is able to enjoy it if they do so well to keep the cost below, for example. walks and happens in direct business. If that is possible, it should be a real cause for joy for us. This is not to be taken lightly if such individuals who render a good service are engaged in any contract, but they do it in a more inexpensive way than they might think, pay a small amount of money. I think that's a good thing. I'd be the first to celebrate. A respectable president. I am glad, however, that such a bill is being discussed. I think it's a good example that we don't agree on everything. Sometimes it's hard for me to understand why some people go nuts. Senators don't agree with me, I'm afraid. President, but it's like it's going to work. I'm in a position to take the discussion, to communicate, to reason on the pros and cons, but I am a firm opponent of the bill, and to warn against its approval. This will lead to something other than the movers plan to do, and there will be twice as many health systems as I know and what I do. Transporters do not want to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for a fine speech. It's clear to me that we are. A senator does not fully debate his views, but that is the advantage of the communication that exists between us. A senator that we can sincerely communicate with each other and disagree with each other without agreeing, without in itself having a problem between us. I think that's what. A senator is keenly interested in the success of the health system in Iceland, and I have no doubt about it. Maybe he sees things a little different from me. In my previous answer, I would like to raise up a few questions and discuss with the senator that there are already treaties without profit - I think I'm correct - one five clinics in the capital area. I don't know better than that it has a good service, that these employees are happy and the managers are happy to control the things they can do in the power of their own business, but they are at the agreement with the state that assumes they will not profit from their companies, i.e. They're oscillates. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he thinks it's just a coincidence, that all the others who applied to run these stations were just joking because nothing else was available. [[The president calls.]] Or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u60	Mr. President. When they make a deal. At the same time, the panels, contracts with private health centres, were being made to change the arrangement, i.e. funding, the full health care system in the capital area. It was adopted a new model, a job done, paid for a job, and paid for what is recorded in the relevant medical facility. So little competition was introduced into the medical profession. Whether in private or public business to attract people, patients, or those in need of service was suddenly desirable for health care. What happened when a tiny competition was introduced? The waiting lists all of a sudden went off. They cut short. I believe this model is exemplary in many ways. However, when that decision was made, I viewed it as making a contract that would not be paid for it as a temporary arrangement, for a new system was being introduced that it was being made to ensure that private and public business had the same financing, being equal. I believe this experiment has succeeded. We've seen better services and shorter waiting lists. We're supposed to keep doing this. I think I have publicly said that this is a good example of how we can slowly and bite into the service and competition of the Icelandic health system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u61	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I can comfort the senator by saying that after this arrangement was taken up at the three existing sites, it has also been adopted at the other two positions operating privately in the capital area. Whether it's the new funding model or the fact that this arrangement is at least to the health care center, the application of home medicine in Iceland has increased dramatically and there have never been more students in this country. Of course it's fine. In his talk, the senator spoke a little about not having health - drive money won't work, cutting out my teeth from the private enterprise if I understood it correctly. How does the senator explain, then, that to form in the United States of America and England, there is a very rich tradition for ◯non-prottts in the medical service? There are often the most powerful schools of education in these lands. They are often used for university education. It is the ideologies that if these institutions make a profit, they will be benefited in their business to improve their ministry, to increase the number of those who receive service, and even to take up new privileges of service. Is the senator alienated from such thinking?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u62	Mr. President. On the contrary, the answer is clear. I think that when people look over my class, they will see that my party, the Independence Party, has been the main spokesman for building here under a free organization and a charity and allowing them to handle various humanitarian matters. It is true that every day we are working in independent companies, in health - care communities, an amazing and unselfish business. It's the ideal that's moving forward. I know it myself because I'm involved with such family relationships, but let it be between things. Let us see that the ideal, the building up of something, is, of course, a driving force in the same way as profit. If a person thinks that he or she is the only one who has a business in the fishing field, agriculture, or industry, then he is mistaken. I haven't met anyone who works here who has the sole goal of making a lot of money. The self-employer, the man who puts everything into his family, is driven not only by some potential gain far into the future, but also by vision, by doing something, doing something, doing something good for society, creating jobs, creating new things, not just for himself but also for his communities and employees. My Guð, the Almighty, when people are dealing with assignments and are not driven forward solely by the hope of profit, is good. [[The president calls.]] I think that's exactly what's happening when a free enterprise is allowed to bloom.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u63	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the fact that this case is being held, not because I see it fulfilled, on the contrary. Actually, I don't think there's a whole bridge in the thinking that's presented in this bill. But this affords us welcome opportunities to discuss different business practices in our health system, how we can apply each of our strengths, and perhaps to discuss the various restrictions that have been involved in this discussion. You see, there's been this private and private business, and many times and times, that I think that at least, in order to bring reproach on the role of the personal enterprise in our health system today. If we were to consider, first of all, what we are more and less agree on in this room, it is to run a public health system here. In fact, when I talk about public health care, it can be simplified by saying that as much of our costs as possible are paid by public health care, whether it is health insurance, social security, or other financial contributions made by a state or a community health care agency. All of us agree to try to reduce the cost, direct the cost of public health care so that it is really available to all without regard to the economy. Then you wonder: " Does the public health system have to be driven by the State or by local societies? Not so in our health - care system at all. It already has a wide variety of business plans. When it comes to public health views and different business plans, they reflect the very variety of views. People are generally saying that the state should run hospitals, that much of the country is, that is, there are not private hospitals in our medical system today. But when it comes to health care, clinics, dentists, physical therapy, psychological services, and so on, the management plans are many and often, and frequent by private agents, both for profit and also for the so - called non-process, or for some other purpose, e.g. in the form of private property strains. It all makes sense. My opinion and ours in Correction is simply that it should be financed by a patient, the state should employ it as the buyer of this health care system in order to achieve the most affordable quality of health care and maximum efficiency. It is a very good place to use the power of competition too, that there are more than one person involved. A recent example of health care is given an example of this. By opening up a variety of health - care practices, the competition for patient service really grew. We know that a few years ago the medical service level had become unacceptable, the waiting period was immensely long. By the change taken, by changing the payment arrangement, by opening up a wide range of management forms within the medical facility, the service has improved greatly, not at an increased cost to the paying state, but simply through better service, better quality of the patients, to the individuals seeking this service. Here, perhaps, first and foremost, separates me from what I'm talking about. Senators on this bill. We are also to compete in the health - care system to ensure that we place enormous amounts of money each year. This is about one quarter of the budget. It's just going to grow for us in the years to come. The people are old. The cost of health care will grow because of the nation's aging. It is the same development that we see in all our neighbors, and we know all of our research. As we grow older, our health costs grow. Then it is important that, at the same time as we enhance the health system, we secure the most efficient use of the available funds. I feel overwhelmed by some kind of prejudice against a personal achievement, a profit - loss operation, if it were to be said, in this and perhaps a principle of understanding. To me, it is not a matter of concern whether a doctor will benefit from his work or not, but primarily whether the services offered by the physician or other health care professional are more practical than other benefits offered by the government. The option of the government is always to direct the ministry into a government business, e.g. Entering the Land Hospital, but it may also be possible to look outside a high - tech clinic, such as the Land Hospital for Practical Use in a specialized field. In this regard, health insurance and health - care department should be much more effective in providing services today, far better aware of the cost of the procedure, e.g. in the hospital in comparison with other options. This is reflected repeatedly in the North countries, actions such as hip replacement surgery or replacement surgery, lens surgery, etc. These are often procedures that are not necessarily practical at the Land Hospital simply because the emergency role of the hospital is always priority. It can interfere with a highly ordered operation, etc. What may really matter is that a person or an individual's business profites from his or her activities makes her more expensive for the one buying the ministry. On the contrary, it can be much more practical. The resolution, e.g. for clinics it is designed to operate in the same system as the public part of the system. We know examples from our neighboring countries, Sweden, for example, where even private health institutions are expected to operate at lower prices, perhaps 90% of the price paid in public health institutions. There is a good way to achieve increased efficiency, increase in quality, from lower costs by specialization in these areas, such as so many others. This is basic to business and, in fact, the basics of economics. Often, specialization is far more effective than trying to perform a systemic service in one place. Then you also ask yourself such questions as I mentioned in my answers in this discussion: Why can some aspects of the health system be profited and others not if this bill was done? Sales of drugs, pharmacists, maintenance services at medical institutions, law services, reexamination services, electric, plumber, cleaning, and God knows what else. There is a wide range of services that are run for profit into health institutions, and it costs them according to the thinking of the carriers of this bill more likely. Of course, that is not the case. This is the most practical approach, and it is not a matter of whether the individual is benefiting from his activity; it is primarily asked how much it costs. Am I getting the best money? Thus, well - thought - out health institutions are to be used in this way, making use of the advantage of competition to achieve the most practical purchases of various aspects of the operation. Thus, the health - care system also has to work, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, and the Medical Security, use the advantage of competition to ensure that the most efficient, most powerful service, of course ensures its quality, but at the most economic cost for the public, and especially to ensure patient service levels. We are, of course, all the money we put in our health system today with a waiting list all over the system. Despite huge financial increases in recent years, the problem seems to have been solved. It is odd, of course, to see such an example, as we see so obvious today as we are moving patients out of the country, e.g. in replacement operations, with a wide range of costs instead of negotiating with the national bodies for the same procedure with considerable benefit for both the individual patient and the official. It's some kind of paradox I don't understand. I wondered: Do people who do not trust in the use of such simple factors, such as the use of government buyers in order to ensure both rapid and efficient high - quality health care for the patient and to have the patient in the background, to be head of the health - care system? I'm completely incomprehensible how people can overlook these obvious advantages that most of the nations around us also take advantage of. In the end, it is the practicality that really matters. There is also something else that we should keep in mind in this context that has been mentioned earlier, about people's job freedom. Why do we want them to know where to go for explosions in the field of health care, and they are in a straitjacket somehow about how they can do their work? We want people to have the freedom to use their expertise in the way they choose. We cannot force people to do so, saying: "If you study this particular subject, you can only work at the government or in a society that cannot pay interest or drive profitlessly. I wondered what such a thing will do for me, e.g. the visit of doctors who have international knowledge, international education, can work anywhere in the world, are sought - after employees around the world, often with a very high - income opportunity in many other places. We've just been through this same discussion with doctor's collective contracts a few years ago. Doesn't this have any effect? We've checked it now when expert contracts were locked up, a lot of doctors choose not to come home because they don't have the opportunity to open up a living room and get into a contract with health insurance. This is just an increase in the risk of complacency in this important article. We are confident that our personal efforts in the health system will require that we show the utmost efficiency, efficiency, and maximum quality. This isn't some skirt-creatist type of person here. This is simply to speak of the full force that the public is using to ensure the best possible quality, efficiency and price of the services it chooses to buy from the private or other operators in the public system. So, of course, there are two points that have been mentioned here and that cannot be mentioned. It is perfectly obvious to me that this thinking is taking place here, taking real steps to double the health - care system. It's clear that there's a market in Iceland for well-rich wealthy people who don't have any health insurance income. We've just seen it. People are buying past this system today when there is no other service. People buy past the system when it comes to replacement operations. We have a recent example of a neuroscientist who started his work here, who is booked without any health insurance payment. It's called double the health system. That's exactly what we're all agreed on, I think, in this room we don't want, we just want equal access. We want to make sure that no one shares the same service regardless of their economic situation. Finally, it has been mentioned in the discussion that money cannot be paid; surely a business can be run profitfully; just don't make any money, but it may take extra pay or something like that. But then we've only got some accounting effects on health - related benefits. Of course, it is not a problem for individuals in this business to adjust their pay points according to the quality of their living. I can't see that it really mattered to the possibility of making money. The taxpayers of both state funds are very similar after the change in tax treatment of interest rates and no reason to make a special distinction. I certainly cannot be counted among the supporters of this case. I am happy, however, that we are having a good discussion of a variety of health - care programs and how we can use it to ensure that we have the best health care for the country, have more options and a service - related health - care system than we may have lived and lived today, to support the patient, than to patients having the option where they are looking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for his speech. Clearly, we do not share the same view of business practices in health care. But I'd like to say one more trip -- which I've probably said, as the kids would say, more than a million times, in this discussion, that I have no objection to private business health care and fully understand how much it is of the Icelandic Health Organization. It's probably about a quarter, and it's been pretty crowded for a very long time. The Senator should be aware of the tests we know about in the world. In all places where the health systems are most efficient, the best results for the communities and for the users are likely to be the official health systems. It's just that way. In some cases, it may be possible to show that certain health care factors are more readily available to a private person. But when all is combined, this comes out of a study. So it is not in any kind of vault that these discussions develop, as to which type of business form is best. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because he speaks a lot about how important it is for a person to gain benefits and gain from his business venture: what makes him feel bad. So should it be reasonable for a senator to count the high remuneration demand for negotiations? Would the senator like to mention some percentage in that matter? Does he feel, then, that there is a demand in the community for such a thing to be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u65	President. Thank you. A senator resists. First, regarding this discussion about the efficiency of the public health system - how is it defined by the public health system. I define the public health system as a basic service to the inhabitants of the country, that we have access to free health systems, i.e. paid by the government, no matter who renders the ministry. Then I'm talking about securing maximum efficiency. I think it's like... What we both see in our country and in our neighboring countries in the North countries is that there is a wide variety of management skills used to ensure maximum efficiency, but the government pays. I agree that I think this is a highly efficient way to ensure the best use of funds and at the same time the best service for the inhabitants of the country. I don't want to calculate any particular interest in negotiations or that it's the public endpoint when it comes down to negotiations with health care providers, that they are calculated as any profit. I don't think it's taking advantage of the competition in this area. I think it is most advisable to believe that an offer is made in a service. I believe that our agreement with expert physicians could be far better by approaching them, not like some sort of bargain agreement with doctors, but by the state's grant of certain medical works in the most practical terms for the state as its buyer. Then the doctors work on it so that they earn the money and offer the price they trust to work out of it. I'm sure you can organise the activities of specialist physicians in this country considerably better than those of today with increased efficiency, larger rooms, etc., greater cooperation between the individual physicians. I'm sure there's something you can do to improve the efficiency there. The objective should not be to ensure a measure of minimalism but to ensure that the State is nearing its end to the most favorable purchases.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u66	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator is clearly approaching, neither of us would like to be counted into the contracts, and that's fine. With all the fun aside, I understand the senator's point of view, and it's the way it is. I have to name it as a dog. A senator came in earlier, why can there be a profit or pay on a particular business that the State buys for health care and not for others? For example, he mentioned some of the trades. Before I ask you why. To the next question, it must be noted that this is not instinctively the same activities, health services, and services that are purchased by traders, which are not instinctively the same. However, I would like to indicate to the senator that there are examples of a so-called "single pay," system - Forgive me, Mr. President - in kidney surgery in the United States of America, where the state pays almost every kidney cure, but every kidney cure in the United States or almost everyone is driven by private agents. However, in the world where the government pays all the cost, the cost and poorer results from the ministry is much higher than in most European countries. How does the senator explain this? I'm not asking him to report it on medical grounds, but on economic grounds. How is it that when a private member of the U.S.A. compares to service in other parts of the world, it is far worse, both financially and in terms of medical findings.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u67	President. Now I'm not going to pretend to be an expert on nephrology in the U.S. medical system. It is of interest, of course, that in the same health system, we can see the highest health cost as a share of land production despite all my private business, or I would rather call it a privatization. It is essentially completely different from the health system we have chosen to build up here or elsewhere in the North countries. I'd say that it would then be quite a failure of the government's performance in negotiations with these same nephrologists. We can only see, when we look at the success of many health benefits that have been achieved in many areas of the health system here and in other parts of the North countries, that this public health policy or guarantee can be met, i.e. that all are equally bioavailable, but the specific aspects of the health system, the benefits of competition, the benefits of the private or the private sector can be used. The Kingdom will then include its shopping and monitoring to ensure that the quality is in accordance with the requirements set out, e.g. of such authorities as the surgeon of the country, that this is a real, practical service to buy for the state and that the patient is in the preparatory, enjoying timely and good service, and with minimal cost of paying attention on the part of the government, as we are always talking about here. That's primarily what I'm talking about. That's what we're going to do. When we talk about a fragile health system that is just right, I think that the biggest weakness is the control of it, that is the control of where we buy the ministry and how we buy it. It is our awareness of individual aspects of the system that are extremely weak and fragile. [[The president calls.]] It is the one that needs to strengthen the number one, two, and three so that we can then use the advantages of a variety of management arrangements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u68	A respectable president. To that end, it has been interesting to observe the discussions on this subject. I have to say, the discussion has taken place, as we would like to be with us, which is such a natural and fun thing, in many parts of the world. The content of the bill has not only been discussed but also a class of health issues and other factors. The most interesting thing about the bill is that all members of Congress are left green, if I've noticed right away, and it's obvious that the matter is presented with good approval by health ministers and members of Congress. You wonder, " Is it because there's a knot in the government's stomach because of this or if this is the way to find a way out, reach a conclusion where everyone can be happy? ' I wondered, " What will the peace be like when the members of the Congress are through, because I am quite aware that a group of people with green green, leading government groups will not bring up such political issues, the matter of serious importance. Hence, we must ask ourselves, " How will the reconciliation take place that must be reached by the rest of the ruling classes? ' I've read the bill, I've read the paper, I've read the legal articles that are being changed. Actually, I don't completely understand the context between the article and the bill, but I think that what's in the paper and what's really being done. I think it's in the report that it's not being done that the prime bill requires a minister to apply the law, but it's as good as it's being done if it's adding 6 mg. 40. g. track No. 112/2008, which says, by permission of the President: In accordance with national policies, it is permitted to decide further in accordance with national regulations for terms of government remuneration for health care services funded by the state's health institutions. 2. g., and that it should be limited to established healthcare professionals. Transporters suggest that this adds up to the question: ▪ and that there is no profit - seeking business. I can only see that it is being completely unconvinced that a minister cannot negotiate the government's pay for profit-employed health care. I don't see how you can say that it's not a groundless ban or a clear message. The second change, the major change, is in Article 2. The bill and it's at 43rd. track No. 112/2008, i.e. 3 mg the legal articles called Remuneration for Health Care. By permission of the highest power. I'm going to read that paragraph. ▪ National Institutes of Health and other health care providers should determine their services according to internationally acceptable methods. At the cost of analysis, all economic costs should be taken into account, including expenses for housing, capitalization, and depreciation In this process, the movers want to add to a new case, according to the words: 'Environment is forbidden to calculate interest and profit money into cost assessment.' Now I have no idea if it's done today, whether it's in general that sort of thing. There is, however, nothing that forbids this proposal and an article today that people simply ponder the cost, such as the driving force. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kárson came in, into a house, or other team they have of their own business, possibly their own housing, rent and equipment for themselves, etc., and take out money there, if that's what they intend to prevent. In the ground, it seems to me that there is a stone being placed in the way of people and that it is simply trying to prevent or prevent them from moving back and here, when experts come and offer services at the side of the public system, which is the foundation of our health - care system, and we should have no doubt about it. We all want to have tremendously strong and powerful public health systems, but it has also been shown that individuals can provide services as good or as better than those given in the State. I wondered, " Why are my motivations being cut off to run practical health care? ' What if the State has developed a calculus that says that a certain operation and so much services are useful, and then someone can provide them with services in a less expensive way or better than the official institution, hospital, or other items that the State runs, why take the urge to have things less expensive? That's what I'm trying to come to. I feel that the movers are actually taking the urge to make this less expensive according to government standards, so they come to another. Not all experts who serve outside the State Department today may storm into the Land Hospital or other institutions and start jobs there if they decide to abandon their activities in the light of changed circumstances, modified songs, no contracts, etc. However, we will make sure that those who have studied abroad and who have specialised themselves return to their home and will start to function if they have been prevented from doing the same service in the same way and perhaps had more out of the same way than in a government institution. I find it very risky to state as clearly as I think it is on the bill, that there is room for a operating health service that is potentially profitable regardless of whether the services meet the requirements or not. It would be ridiculous, however, if we were to pay for a service contract or something at some source, no matter what they do, if it were found that in the first place the performance was poor, the service was much worse, and we couldn't get what we were paying for. Of course, if we don't get what we pay, we need to reevaluate it, but I don't think there's any evidence, little evidence, of course the same kind of sheep in that group as anywhere else, that they don't get what they pay for. It doesn't seem to me that I'm running, or that I'm telling you clearly, it's against the law. That's how I understand the bill. I reiterate what I said, I can't see that there's some way in which men can make money. It has only been discussed with the possibility that money will be made into money, into the expense business. I have to admit, I don't know if it's done in any way. If you do, it's okay for me to be examined. But it seems obvious to me that if you have your own business, your own housing, your own equipment, etc. There are plenty of ways to get money elsewhere, if you want to go into making such a system. It's better to keep it clean and clear and on top of the tables. A respectable president. Of course, what's very interesting about this case is how it gets in here because we know that the Independence Party, at least those who have spoken today, see little good about it. It's going to be exciting to watch how the government groups work out, because I know that the left green is very serious about it. At this point, we do not know what the forward party's attitude, which is also in the government, but it may not be all that matters. The independent group and the left green are on opposite sides of the planet in all of this, and they have decided to meet on the moon in an effort to maintain the government work together. Whether to do this will be very interesting to watch. The case is clearly stated, I say, and completely in the spirit of the course that the health minister runs today that it will be curious to see how a man meets there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u69	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. It sounds like a lot of things to me. A senator may see something closer to me and my left green opinion, but those members of the council who spoke ahead of him, who only value it himself. On the other hand, he found himself talking about the political surface of the case. It's brilliant. That's right. Left greens are, of course, political jobs. I know why. A senator has read policy files left green over the years. There he must have seen that the left green is the very political force that does not want public service and public employment to be the opposite of money from a trust fund. Maybe that's what it's like. A senator called no joke. You see, that's the way it is. We don't want to. We think it's abnormal, but it's only natural to think that if you are involved in such a business, it's not a profit - making business. It's the extra power you can create in these companies made back into companies to improve your ministry. I'd like to ask the senator something, except to have a little small talk. He said that people would lack the motivation to come home or go into private business or to do this type of service. Where, then, was the urge to establish three private clinics in the capital area and many doctors applied?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u70	A respectable president. I didn't say it would lack motivation. I said that I was worried that there might be a lack of motivation if individuals didn't have the chance of going into their own business and possibly making money. In order to eliminate any doubt, I object to this bill. Let's be absolutely clear. In some respects, however, I understand the changes suggested in Article 2. In terms of earning money and earning money into the expense business. I'm not saying it's necessarily unnatural. I don't know how it's done. I don't know how it's done. If it is so that people have some extramarital resources that they have to pass and use for them, then it may well be reasonable to assume that they are counted into this. But I look at it so that if there is someone who can render good service in a town better service than is done in state institutions, that is not to be stopped. As long as the individual meets the requirements and conditions and is within the range given to him, it is normal. However, there is no room for self - control at the cost of the State, whether it is in educational, health - care systems, or a god. We have to make these contracts so that everything is clear, clear on the table, and clear that what people are doing and what the State will do for their share. But I think the system we have today is, in many ways, fine. There may have to be some explanation, but I'm not part of the group that wants it to be forbidden to have a private business at the side of the government, not at all. I want them both to be there. But I'd also like to make sure that there's plenty of money in the government business. It's very important. I think what we're supposed to do today is something to take the jump, as we've said some of us, take all this large box that's money in the health system and see if we're handling it properly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u71	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. True, he did not answer my question, but that's all right. I'll just do that, then, about the decision of setting up private clinics in the capital area, there were a lot more appetizers than I could get. After that, the other two singles in business have arrived at an ◯non-profat fat (species). As we have seen in the discussion at any given time, this action by the then health - care minister, Kristján Júlíusson, has made the medical care of the capital area worse. Not at all. I think people can totally agree on that. But he still set this requirement in the agreements with these parties. Then maybe we'll come to it for a while. A senator came into his answer earlier, and as I'm going to allow myself to interpret the senator's words, that he makes a great deal of money, that the state is a good buyer, that he appreciates negotiations, and carefully what it does to the operators, and that he does work to find out what it is to buy, and what it needs to buy. That's where I think I and what. A senator will agree completely with us. This has been lacking. That's at least Part of the problem in government negotiations with health - care carers that the state has not had enough vision and enough contracts to get it out of its service. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u72	A respectable president. I want to thank the senator for the question. I thought I had answered her earlier and then repeated what I said earlier, which is the answer to the question, I don't know. I just said that I'm worried that if there's no warning that there's money money out of it, it's written in the law, they know how to run away. It may well be that I'm wrong. I hope I'm wrong about that. However, I fear that it might have negative effects. I think we're actually going to have to do everything we can to increase the number of health professionals, increase the number of doctors, and increase the number of experts in Iceland. There is a shortage of certain experts. We know that from many sources. We may know that many of us personally need people in certain articles. So I don't think we should take steps now that can work negative to get these people home. How intriguing it would be if a health minister were to share with us in the conference hall how much money money has been paid according to health care or health care and in which articles are used! Then perhaps we could get a picture of whether this is such a problem that there is a need to set a law code here because I believe that the matter presented here is much more forbidden than that. Transporters want to say in their report. So, at least, I read it. The discussion and how the discussion will be discussed will be discussed in this article. It is good to see, however, how the administrative groups will settle this issue, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u73	V.E.G. President. During the past few decades, health services in Iceland have been based on three main points. First of all, it is the government's service, second, a service driven by a Free Society organization and third, a service fired by private agents by a government contract. All three of these grafted this storyteller in his entropy speech when he wrote in the same sentence of the U.S.A., a free associate group, a Frenchess who has put a community around every home that is run, and doctors who either in a group or in a group have made agreements with the State and have performed their services accordingly. The other thing is that the left greener one has put these two fragrances, i.e. Free companions and those who run a service for their own account but in a deal with the state, under the same view. That is why the health minister of the family has hunted the U.S.A., the Figuratives, the Caitas and other organizations, as if it were a major business. We all know about the pessimism of the left green on the interest of others, and it's going so far, the highest. President, for the time being, the health minister of the left greens finds it normal to send out people to medical care for a replacement procedure that costs three times what can be purchased at home because of the possibility of earning money. It may well be that the Swedish one does the same, but it goes into his pocket, and we're not meddling in what foreigners make, we're not against the Icelandic people who do the business of profit, is it not? Senator? It's a real bitch. Maybe that's what stands out in this bill. But there's something else I'm worried about, chief. President. I'm worried that the bill will be in trouble with a government rule rule rule rule rule rule rule rule rule rule. I'll explain why. That is what 2 C.E. says. the bill: ◯ It is forbidden to calculate interest and interest into cost assessment. Now let's take a ready example: A certain man stumbles here outside the General Assembly Hall and carries his hand to himself. He gets up and shakes and goes on, but by night, he notices that his hand has become blue and swollen. He's so lucky he's found out from a medical doctor the following morning, even private health care. The health care professional will prescribe him for pain relief and send him to an X-ray. This fine man gets his iPad, swallows some of the pills, doesn't work, and gets X-rays, turns out he's a broken wrist, and is sent up to the Land Hospital in Fos, where he gets a cast and a treatment. Excuse me, Chief. Mr President, I know this President is not as understanding of the use of English language as he was before. So I'm going to take it back and say he's got the appropriate service. He's getting cured. Now I'm going to go over this career. The state pays the natural medical doctor because he is either at the contract of a private health care unit and/or working at the health care of the capital. True, the pharmacy sells drugs that the state takes a high cost factor on, use benecid, has not asked the pharmacist if he intends to make money. He's going to an x-ray doctor who runs his own lab. However, according to this bill, he is to agree that he is absolutely certain that he is not going to make any money out of his work. What's going to happen up at the Land Hospital in Fos Cove? Yes, there will be treatments consisting of plaster and more. Whoever sold the cast is likely in the government's framework and has not been asked whether he will make any money or not. Some tape patches too, syringes and needles and stuff. Don't ask that question. Why should one class be removed, boy? A senator, and forbid them in the class to calculate his interest in what they are doing? Is this not a violation of the administrative order and/or violation of the rights of men to function under the constitution? Protecting independence? This is what I'm worried about. I think this case is very pointless, I'll admit it. I've been looking for the purpose of this case in my mind while I listened carefully to the communication between the statesmen and the natural sky between the lndependence and the left green in this matter. The third wheel under the chariot, the helpmaker has not spoken up, so we do not know its position on the matter. But it is clear that there is heaven and sea between the other two, and the question is, What is the purpose? Obviously, this bill is presented with the blessing of a health minister. Then the question is, when the Ministers do not trust to put forward bills that are designed to exaggerate feathers on their partners, they will put on foot soldiers. So there are VGs who have adopted this case. Either to get the health minister to get the threshold to stand in the upcoming agreement with the Independence Party on how to manage these matters or what seems more likely to me: I believe this bill is presented in order to pacify the striped left of green greens who sit at home and curse aloud that left green people have led to power in Iceland. Actually, this bill would have been quite comfortable at home in an opening talk at VG's party conference so people could say, "These are the focus of health care now, so we're not going to let any doctors who have spent 16 years of their lives studying abroad and coming home to make a profit. That's impossible. This is what we are in the situation now, and even though we have led the power to power with one useful criminal with us, it doesn't matter. We're still this hard, though. V.E.G. President. This is what I think is the first reason for this bill to come out. To say, it's also, and I've established my concerns that the bill does not pass the political order, considerably serious. I also think that this in itself is a serious matter. A chairman of this matter has repeatedly stated that other services that the State buys are not as functioning in the medical sector. All right, I'll buy it, but the question is, is the same as because the seller is in a position of superiority? The point is, if any man needs a carburetor or something more powerful because he has a job, he has exactly as weak a position to the pharmacy as he is to some doctor who is dealing with the state and who is at risk of making money out of his business, exactly the same position, but that is not required to the pharmacy. In fact, it does not seem to be a requirement for those over their heads, as we now hear. There is no need for any chemotherapy. There are no essential anti-rheumatic drugs and it has not been for weeks or months. You must ask, "Where is this being supervised? " In the middle of these events, some VG foot soldiers have chosen the task of entering a bill and shooting from cannons instead of exerting themselves vigorously in the sectors that really move on, while it's destroying the U.N., Kapitas, the hugs and the cancer group. It may not be taken care of by some experts in a town, but it is possible that they will be able to earn a lot of money from their work. There are about 300 specialists who will probably miss a year's contract. If that continues, that is exactly the situation that some speakers have highlighted in this discussion, and I agree. Then there's a real danger that there will be a double system here. That's when the left-hand green comes in. This is also a thought - provoking point because I mentioned earlier the replacement operation that left greens are willing to pay three times for, talking about the state as the responsible health care provider. It doesn't match sound to image here, topv. Mr President, not at all. A waiting list for replacement operations gets a little shorter, I think 150 people last year. A year ago, the clinical seasons took 150 operations. Why didn't they put the power into more extensive replacement operations on Aclin, take them to the south of Southernnes? I know what it's like. A senator has previously spoken of the lack of something in the operating room in order to perform operations. However, this operating room has been rented out and the day in and out, and you ask: Is there any danger to these patients? I don't think so. It's mainly a disturbance. These measures have not been actively performed and have been left to the university hospital after what is best, i.e. Fighting severe diseases, difficult and complex, taking heart surgery and cancer, but these replacement operations can be anywhere else. I told you before, it was about that. Three costs that men would be willing to pay in foreign countries where they don't want to pay in this country because they hate the holding, on those performing the procedure, but there is actually no need for a replacement procedure, e.g. hip replacements, hospital costs, they're not here yet. This may be the case after a clear inquiry has been made for the performance of the Land Hospital in recent years and for its success. Such requests will be made. Then we'll be closer to whether a private company like the clinicals, such as the one who's offering to go to hip surgery, is such a yoke operation that humans want to have. But no more than that, they're willing to pay three times in foreign lands, use probe, in the currency we should now be saving. We're coming down from the economy, and we need to start considering not to reduce the economic balance of the country. It also showed how many there are, there are hundreds of people who now have the right to go to Sweden for replacement surgery and I think about 100 of each, knee and hip joints. I think that's about the part of patients that now has the right to go out. This costs 600 million, and where will they be taken? It could be done here by 200. They are not interested in this, yet they say that the State is responsible for providing health care. V.E.G. President. There's not a sound here. It's not a picture together. This isn't a lot of compromise. That's why I say, this bill is put forth first to appease unsatisfying left greens who sit at home and curse silently and out loud that the left green has led to the power in Iceland and so to stop only the muscles, i.e. The leg soldiers key the muscles to the secretary who is unable to do so. That's why this case has come in here. But it is good, as other speakers have said before, that this case is being delivered in that way so that we can just take this discussion and expose this twin - skind figure in this whole matter and the painting of the left green in it over its head.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u74	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for the speech. He himself referred to the bill as gulping things together, so it would be difficult to throw them away. There's a lot in a talk. A senator I didn't exactly think was about the bill, about what it's all about. I'm gonna try to stick with what the senator said. First the senator mentioned that he believed a health minister had hunted down a certain company and group members and is destroying these associates, I can assure the senator that this is not true. I can also assure the senator that the good partner, the U.S.A., is well thought of. It will continue to operate within the Icelandic health system as a ◯non-pro fattst◯ company, if I know the right person. The Senator was also concerned about his 90's, and he compared dealing with medications and prescriptions. This is different because the medication check accounts for the medical conversation between the physician and the patient or other healthcare professional and the patient. The condition has been evaluated and the doctor or healthcare professional decides on which medicines are used. But in that case, it is the user himself who decides which pharmacy he is going to go to.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u75	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator very much for this answer. In fact, I did not say in my speech that the bill was grumbling about different things, I said that there was an authority in his speech. It's a little different. Because of what? A senator named U.S.A. can let him know that today the state of the United States is in accordance with a service contract of some 1,500 treatments a year. 2,200 patients pass through SBA every year. It says that the self-fund is used to work on the serious waiting list there, instead of using it e.g. In structure, as one would prefer. We happen to meet several representatives of the U.S.A. the other day where it happened. They said: "We trust to take in 2,700 patients a year if we get the money, but it's not available. They're still paying with the 1,500. But U.S.A., abjects, a sacrifice, and a vision, every year 2,200 people pass through treatment. It is also possible to say that the COPY is now faced with the need to close even its walking department in Akureyri. Such a service agreement on the walk department in the capital area has not been repaired, and this is a real challenge to what they say themselves. So I say again, to make The CHEWs impossible to work, not to make new service contracts with the U.S.A., I call this organization established by vision and self - sacrifice and interest to society. That's not a good political bitch, huh? Senator. Not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u76	Madam President. In his speech earlier, the senator mentioned replacements in Sweden. In fact, he said that the cost of them is three times what he is in Iceland. The senator won't be right, but he's right, much higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u77	What's the number?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u78	The minister has said that she finds this absurd treatment of funds, and he has said it repeatedly in public. I hope this ends, but the senator knows very well, and mentioned it in his speech, in fact, that just because of the European Economics Convention, some of the patients in Iceland have entered the right to take action in the European Economic Area. That's it. I know we could take a long discussion on the European Economic Area, me and what. Senator, but I'm not going to go into it right now. However, the very nature of this fact has been in the process of a waiting list campaign with three agencies; the Akureyri Hospital, the Western Institute of Health at Aquilini, and the Land Hospital. They have been working on the waiting lists during the past year, and they continue to do so. Hopefully, the campaign will continue for the next few years, and hopefully we will be able to make the wait for what is acceptable. I share my opinion. The senator says it's very important. The cost of a single orthopaedic surgery is far more complex than the cost of the operation itself. There are a lot more things that come in there, but I don't have time, Madam President, to review it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u79	V.E.G. President. It is our common interest or interest in these two senators that waiting for action is reduced. Then I say again, if men find it ridiculous to spend a lot of money on sending people out of a country that they are, no matter how right they created, and have procedures that are much more expensive than in Iceland and that can be done in Iceland at a good time than men choose not to, because they hate those who perform the operations in Iceland -- I don't think it's acceptable, but... Senator. I have to say exactly what we do, although we understand how to run health systems in Iceland, we must agree on one main goal, that those who enjoy the ministry, those who are sick, get appropriate treatment as quickly and certainly as possible and with good results. This will be our best guarantee by looking for the most practical ways to do this. Yes, it is true that there is a health - care campaign to shorten this waiting list. It is less than 150 faces in the previous year, which is the number of measures performed in the clinical setting. That's a fact. How this has been done at the Land Hospital is not fully aware of me, but I have sympathy for the hospital that has emergency services and emergency services on its shoulders. It is not a simple matter, of course, to process the required actions and emergency procedures. Everybody knows that. That is why it is urgent to look for any means without prejudice in order to work on a waiting list in the most practical way, for the good of the patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u80	Madam President. At the end of the discussion, I want to thank the members of the council who have participated in it and have convened views and opinions. It's very useful, as many people have. Congress officials have established that we senators use this field to discuss our views on social and political matters. I've got to say, that's what this big discussion has been about and that, in part, about the core of it. I suppose this bill is going to go for it now. The welfare committee, where they will be coming to a discussion and a review. I can't wait to see what they're wearing. Senators have expressed their concern during the discussion, including By the rules of equality and other factors. I trust that points will be discussed in the following article. I agree wholeheartedly with members of Congress who have expressed concern that, of course, it is necessary to do so. I need to get this straight. Regarding what some might call the politics in this, many members of Parliament have. ask why now, what's going on, etc, it's as if I've actually been in the past in my discussion, that the left green has had it in its policy since 2002 or 2003 that we believe that health care should be first of the state's interest. We have never opposed private health care services, but we feel that health care at the hands of a private person should not be a tool for interest to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-09-20-8.u81	V.E.G. President. I'm bringing a bill to legalize the social security law, No. 100/2007, baby pensions. This is also the first matter of the forward movement of this council and the emphasis. My importers are the council party, i.e. and the one standing why. The members of Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Linik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, and Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir. I'm gonna go over the story and I'm gonna go over the story, and then I'm gonna grab a little bit of the rest of the rest of the news that came out in spring and maybe shed a little light on the bill. It's suggested that after 20. Let the law come up with a new article, 20th par. a, together with a heading, which is as follows: Because of special fees. The government's insurance agency can make a special contribution on the basis of expenses at the baptism of a child, bar mitzvah, glass wash, dental treatment, disease, burial, or for other special reasons. Implementation 1.mg. is only allowed to pay for children paid at the hospital. 1.mg. 20. Implementation 1.mg. can only be decided if the businessman has decided on such a donation according to a request to be sent within three months of the return unless there was a reasonable reason to wait on such a requirement. For reference funds due to the requirement for special donations the same rules as those given for special expenses. Section 60. child-friendliness. Two. says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. The bill was previously transferred to the 148th legislature and is now reassigned slightly different. Some 900 children in Iceland, now aged 0 to 18 years, have lost a parent. Baby pensions are paid with children under 18 years of age, if a parent is dead or is a senile, disability or rehabilitation pensioner. Single parents can also apply for a child's pension instead of stress if the child cannot be fathered, e.g. are for assisted reproduction techniques. From January 1, 2018, children's pension is 33,168 k. every month with each child or 398.016K. every year. According to the 60th paragraph. Children's Law, No. 76/2003, a coordinators may be ruled to provide payment on the basis of baptism, bar mitzvahs, glasses, dental, disease, or burial. Other reasons may also be the basis for such initiatives, but only if they are special rather than universal, as regular cohesion payments are meant to be the source of a child's general progress. The Ministry of Justice provides guidelines for the management of budgetary values for specific donations and is to be updated annually according to the index of consumer prices. According to local websites this year, the sum of money is considered reasonable, as follows: Seventy-four thousand, nine hundred and twenty-five thousand. due to priapism, $19,000-24,000. for baptism, Seventy-two thousand, six hundred and twenty-five thousand. For burial. No instructions are given on the basis of other proposals listed here. However, the same source does not include paediatric pensioners, since the situation is the same as that of one candidate carrying the heat and weight at all costs. Transporters believe that with this, children of single parents are discriminated against, i.e. depending on whether both parents or others are alive. Two. The United Nations Children's Covenant shows that all appropriate measures must be taken to ensure that a child is not discriminated against, e.g. because of their parents'position. Such discrimination is also opposed to the ideas of an equal rule 65. g. Iceland's constitution. Transporters believe that this is a time for discrimination between children who have lost one parent and who have just had a similar social security clearance in order to obtain additional child support for special expenditures. The bill points to the same viewpoint as the one used for the evaluation of an additional produce that will be applied to Article 60. baby law. The request for such a donation should be directed to the businessman who determines whether an additional donation should be made by the state due to specific circumstances. That's what the report sounds like. When the case was presented this year at the last Council of 148th, I received seven reviews from various sources. All of them found that this adjustment was supported. I would like to read the review received from Lion Heart Government, an organization to support younger people who have lost their mates and their children. It was just the organization that led me to put in the bill at first. It's an excellent piece of information, and it's detailed, but it says, by permission of a president: ▪ The King's Heart rejoices at the legal adjustment proposed here, as it is designed to abandon discrimination that has been practiced by the people against child pensioners, i.e. children of disability and children who have lost a parent. According to Article 60, no. 76 from 2003 it is permitted to determine the cohesive candidate for a special contribution on the basis of the spending of a child's baptism, confirmation, cleaning, drying of the teeth, as a result of illness, burial, or other special occasion. Children's pensions, on the other hand, have not been entitled to this special contribution according to the State's Office on Children's Childhood, i.e. that the official is not considered a cohesive party, despite its clear legal obligation, to pay a pension to children whose parents have lost as much simple as one. At the death of the parent of a child under 18 years of age, the right to pay a child's pension on the government as well as the social insurance laws, and also to a child's pension due to education/training, and to see the government's insurance system on paying on the government's behalf. By paying a child's pension to children who lose a parent, the lawgiver's will is clearly to equal the financial status of both parents and their children, and the amount of child - care money is equal to that of any other single parent at any given time. As matters are being done today, depending on the status of children, it is clear that there is discrimination here, i.e. Because whether they have either one or both parents alive. Such discrimination is against Iceland's Constitution, which says in 65rd. ... that everybody is equal to the law. It can also refer to the United Nations Children's Convention, which states that Member States should "make all the necessary steps to ensure that a child is not discriminated or punished for the status or actions of their parents, legal or family members. In Ljónshjarta 2016, this obvious discrimination was pointed to by the Children's Advisor Margrét María Sigurðardóttir, as well as by six members of the House of Children at the General Assembly, who came to the conclusion of the League on the need for a change of law. So we'll get our full support on the bill. According to the ECU website 2018, the Ministry of Justice should provide guidelines to the county on the reference height because of the demand for special donations and consider the sum of the sums of the right specifics as follows: $72,000-95,000. due to priapism, 19,000-24,000. for baptism, $72,000 - 106,000. For burial. According to the Community opinion, it would be desirable to appear in the bill that the lawyer would want to raise the above amount according to half of the minimum cost, especially as a result of the child's burial, which is between 700,000,500,000,1,000,000 dollars. Here's a specific supplement for the organization, which I expect to do. The welfare committee will take into account when discussing the matter, and it will say: The amount of money required by the Ministry of Justice should be given to the county on the reference funds due to the requirement for special donations, taking into account that they are half of the expected minimum cost. V.E.G. President. It is quite clear that the maintenance floor for burial is far from half if the amount is 700,000,500,000,1,000,000. So I agree with Ljónshjarta's comment and tip, hoping to get some sleep. The welfare committee also does, adding the bill as it is presented. The government's insurance agency also sent in excellent reviews. It even says, by permission of the president: The Agency does not comment that the Agency is authorized to make such a contribution as proposed here. The law itself, however, is not sufficiently clear to the limitation of the population intended to benefit from the report by the bill. It would have to be observed that this special contribution is only allowed to be paid for children who are paid a child's pension due. 20. Social security songs on the grounds that one or both parents are dead or a child is not dead. Clearly, the law does not apply to a caring parent who can direct his requirement, as it is permitted. Section 60. baby law. It is then suggested that the request for this special donation be directed to the businessman who determines whether an additional donation should be made by the government because of a particular situation. It is reasonable that such a law will also be stated in the children's law. I agree with this point of government insurance, and I say the same thing as before, that I hope the former members send each other. The welfare committee will consider detailed and good comments, as at the last point, and be taken into account and examined carefully for the rightness of changing the bill in this indication. As I mentioned earlier, more people received very positive comments about the case during the last council, including the U.S. from the childhood that supports the subject of the bill and wants it to be accepted as a law. The information on parental equality also supports the bill, and Iceland's Human Rights Office sent a positive report, as well as the National Institute for Environment and Children. I think I'll finish my case here with a respectable president, and I'd like the bill to go to the welfare committee for further consideration.
