ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u1	A respectable president. I can't agree with what. A senator who describes how this class has been held in the past, but that may be just another discussion. Here we are discussing the financial program, and there certainly is a minister's policy. As we look at the financial resources that are expected to flow into the environment involved in trust seekers, much of the money that has been taken to the seminary in recent years had a long session of treatment. I have to say as far as I believe, there's not much humanity in dragging trustees or other candidates for international protection long in response and management in a way that even in the past stands before deportation, let's say up to two years, as in some cases. So I want to express great satisfaction with the results of shortening the treatment period. This has led us to a period of about one month during the third quarter of the past year, as it were in the first quarter of 2017. By the end of the year, the treatment period was down to three months. Of course, it affects the financial structure of this class. I'm going to state here that the human rights being claimed to be being done are not being handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u2	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I must now say that I am no closer with the classes of lawsuits that are discussed, especially foreign people's affairs that are wanted to live here. You see, it's time to inform the highest level. A minister of foreigners is referring to more than those who seek protection here. Foreign affairs concern young children of foreign parents born here in the country, young children born in the world, and brought here with their parents, young people at school, older people who come here and want to join their families late in their lives, trade students, students, doctors, sports heroes, and traveling workers. The government's financial program is not a single word for this large group. There is no comment on how the minister of the seminary is going to render good service to those who come here and want to live here. You see, it's not my description, Minister I was quoting, it's a description of the government's financial plan. When other lawsuits in this field are examined, one objective in all cases is said to be to perform a service survey to monitor the enjoyment of customers and how to deal with problems, except on one matter. And what class would that be? Just for the customers who need to go to the Foreign Institute. There is no need to determine the stage of service. Is that a coincidence, Mr. President? I'm not sure. A court order also applies to those who, here, come and ask for entitlement. The Icelandic government does not have to pay one cent for the individuals waiting here for months and even years, small children without service, while their application is being completed by the National Institute of Iceland. Finally, because it's getting late and I don't want to tire out. Minister rather, I'd like to ask you: Is the most friendly attitude ever. Minister of Justice to this community member of the minister's community? [[The president calls.]] Was he aware that before my discussion began, there is nothing about the foreigners who come here simply because of a responsoring and applying for a permit? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u3	A respectable president. So I understood that the words about the foreign languages had been directed primarily to those who are being protected here. But, of course, that's not true. A senator that this is a variety of groups and many who simply want a land permit. It is not an ideal position for the management of the institutions listed below, if it takes months to understand these matters, but it is still much less evaluable than often appropriate in the studies of those seeking international protection. In this regard, many difficult situations, e.g., can be tested often. in the case of unauthorized persons and in situations where there is strong evidence of individual factors and such, there is a doubt about the age of the individual, etc. For people who come here for a job search, however, we have a somewhat clearer set of rules, and to a lesser extent we should try an evaluable point. As a result, I feel that there is no reason for me to believe that many months of waiting in the government. There should be something better to take into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u4	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your local justice minister, chief. Secretary of finance, for being here with us. I hope I've taken it right after the Minister's office. stated earlier that in the period, there was a group of 9, i.e. Justice and public safety, 18.2 billion during this specified period, five years. Then the minister split up: 14 billion in helicopters, 3.5 in tight - weight border control, and 7.5 billion in intensive law enforcement. These three figures are 25 billion, but not 18.2, so I ask the minister to tell me if I've noticed anything wrong, if there's any misunderstanding. However, I wanted to review what is being said in the police section, that the national law enforcement service has increased between 2014 and 2018 by 15 new levels, using probe, three days across the country, 15 standards. It is also spoken of as being very praiseworthy, these 237 million who share in every police office to promote the police because of sexual abuse. This is truly praiseworthy, but there is no evidence that the charge of these same matters was reinforced. I want to ask you something about it. Then it says here, and I'm still hanging out with the amount of money that we're talking about: The police will be under attack. Now I ask, what money? Because it is clear that only in the capital area is 88 police officers missing. According to age analysis found in response to the Council of 2016, approximately 20% of policemen will stop during this specified period, that's about 140 people. The police school is currently producing, as it were, 40 students in this year and 60 years thereafter. [[The president calls.]] Now I ask, what kind of effort is it to recruit and how, at the top? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u5	A respectable president. What I'm primarily referring to in this regard is that in the plan, just less than a billion dollars is going. This year, strictly in law enforcement matters, D.A.S. and jail cases. There are about 4 billion people in the strategy period, which gives the Ministry a considerable amount of space to help strengthen the law during the programme period. In addition, in recent years we have increased contributions to law enforcement on the rights of about 34%, or more than 2 billion, real value. These funds have been spent on various projects, e.g. to face increased pressures along the border in Keflavík, to increase the number of international police officers, but also to renew equipment and equipment. We had in three years until the start of our last year, a growing number of police officers increased by less than 30, starting in 2014,2017. In 2007, when a number of professional police officers were the greatest, there were about 60 more police officers. There you have to take into account that local police and criminals are affecting these numbers. This is a discussion that we have often taken to the Assembly Hall that before there were more police in the country. The rest of this program is set aside for a total budget that can be used to promote law enforcement, which includes the implementation of law enforcement. You're looking for extra patrols on the road. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u6	V.E.G. President. The Millill as the highest. A minister here talks about enough for the 88 officers missing in Reykjavík alone in one of the capital areas. What, then, is to be done for the region? Who will go on the road? Or should this 88 be added to the missing ones in the capital area? Will the capital area still be starving, and people send to traffic surveillance, which I naturally recognize is very important? On page 18. 109 will also appear, with permission of the highest power. President, and now I pray to the highest. Minister to correct me again if I'm wrong: The work of the police in the customs department is now renovating the analysis of passengers to the country, setting up a new service for passenger information and implementing more automatic border development. This is the only place in the plan where I can be mentioned in customs. I intend to abuse my situation, at the highest level. A financial minister is a natural minister of finance, as well as being a minister of justice tonight, asking him because we had a conversation about the day when we had a conversation about the customs guard: Where is the increase in customs that he spoke about in the discussion and said it was considerable? I know that the customs service got in its time, likely in 2016, about 90 million. K. every year to add to the person who may be sufficient for possibly 10 Customers, if I calculate correctly, take proben, two day-to-day men. Now I'd like to ask about that support, and about further police and customs work, because we also took ◯debat to the day regarding drug control, etc. I'd like to hear from the highest. A minister of what lies ahead in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u7	A respectable president. I had a nice talk here. A senator on customs care especially a few days ago. There we reviewed the increase that has already occurred in customs. This is vital, however, when we consider the value of looking at how the law, border security, and clean customs need to play together. We have had to increase greatly in and beyond what we have provided by means of funding, e.g. ... ina border guard at Keflavík. Almost every year, we have underestimated the need to support the work there. In terms of what lies ahead in the field of customs, I just want to reiterate what we discussed in our discussion that we need to look for ways to improve efficiency and practicality. with international cooperation. We need to develop technology and diagnostic ability because it will result in a better health care with better results in the customs monitoring and also increase the efficiency of the operation. Therefore, avoid too much attention on the number of customs. Here are also other measures, such as dog search and other such factors. The fact is, the entire environment of the customs guard is that it is completely altered. In recent years, we have benefited greatly from having international cooperation and sharing experiences and learning from others. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u8	Mr. President. The media levels that are below the highest level. Minister of Justice is laying down until three, or less than three. I'm just going to focus on two of them and start with a subject area 10, which deals with the rights of individuals, religion, and the administration of the Ministry of Justice. Under these circumstances there will be Persian protection, religion, government, the Ministry of Justice, and foreign affairs. I'd like to focus on that last one. It's like the highest. A minister is aware that during the past few months, those applying for international protection have declined compared with the previous months, suggesting that they can be expected to continue something, or that they may think so. But I'm a little worried about that, because in the program there is not really any increase in this subject field, or very little, in the period. That's why I want to ask the highest. A minister as to whether this is not possible and likely to occur during a period of time will plan for a change in human life. I want in that relationship less. Congress officials say that we have faced a tremendous increase during the first part of the past year, with a considerable increase in financial resources resulting from this. Is it not clear, then, that we will respond to a review of the budget? Does the minister think that there is room to cope with such changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u9	A respectable president. I think we can say about this party that there is always considerable uncertainty about it. I have attributed that in recent years, we have often underestimated the need for funding in order to minister to the work done there. I would like to mention just a few of the numbers that are relevant to the need for money in the affairs of refugees and refugees. We've changed the law and the rules. During the council, I feel that we had to take special note of what has been defined as unfounded shelters. The situation in the autumn of 2016 was that 84% of the total international protection applications fell into the category of unfounded applications - 84% of all applications. That was in the fall months of 2016. By March this year, that ratio had gone from 84% to 18%. When most of them were employed, 820 people took advantage of their services in the U.S. It was September 2016, at which point there was a maximum ratio. Over the last year, their numbers have dropped by nearly 400. This shows that there is a significant change in the composition of applications. The changes we've made on the law now yield the desired results. Both the proportion of these applications now falls very narrow and the resources that the government has now taken has resulted in a much lower number of us in our seating talk. [[The president calls.]] It affects the financial needs of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u10	Mr. President. In my second speech, I would like to talk about the other key class, the other topic areas, i.e. No. 9, which discusses public security and justice. It is, in fact, there. Talk about, and is reason to rejoice, that the helicopters will be invested so that rescue measures will be restored. What a joy that is for all! It also speaks of the effort that has been put into the budget for sexual crime and its treatment and advice to employees on the matter, which is of great importance and is a reason to celebrate it as well. However, I would like to have a place to speak at the highest level. A minister as to whether he believes that a recent change in the general penal law on the definition of rape determined here at the council will in any way affect the financial needs of the group. I'm sure there'll be no response? Will there be room for that? Also, I would like to ask if it will be possible when we take the next steps in these matters, which I believe are to be handled with authority - that once we go on that journey, the plan will allow the space needed to take action so that all members of the country can be at peace with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u11	A respectable president. In the case of sexual abuse, I would particularly like to mention that this recent legal adjustment I believe has been a progressive step toward further explanations, but it is absolutely impossible to determine whether the change will require an increase in police activity, increase in the number of charges, or increase in the number of cases facing the charge procedure. We can't say anything at this point. However, this financial program is being financed by a sexual offense program presented in February of the Ministry of Justice. As mentioned there, it has been prepared by a group of district attorneys, district attorneys, the local police in the capital area, and other agencies, such as the Council of Justice. It's funded over the budget. This is an increase in funding to improve police standards and local district attorneys. The amount of money needed for re-education is as much as money to improve the laboratory and the regulations of the police, etc. This is also an emphasis on shortening the treatment period, putting these fractures in a special priority in the justice system. I have hoped that the result of this is actually in a steady reassessment, so we can make sure that the budget estimated in this program will be most effective. I'm sorry, I'm running out of time with the other question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u12	A respectable president. In view of the #metoo speech, which did not miss anyone in leading the last election, I would like to ask about a statement presented in a financial program, by permission of the president: The treatment of sexual fractures within the justice system has been approved and funded... This strategy has been discussed by the Minister of Justice, so I feel that it is lacking in clearly how it is financed. The Action Programme contains a number of projects, including the need for the general police infrastructure, and it can be assumed that there will be a lack of expertise in the treatment of sexual abuses. In addition, the prosecution has to be built up. These include the need to shorten the treatment period for the prosecutor. Many assignments are available to ensure overall justice. Many factors have not received enough funding in recent years, so it is far beyond the scope of the legal rights and the charge. What I'm running around about is that three new helicopters are expected to be paid for by the National Reservation Guard. In addition, extra funds to the border guard are expected. Granted, these matters are important, but this raises questions regarding the priorities of the government regarding the treatment of sexual abuse programmes. So I ask: How much money will it take to fund a funded operation plan? Is she making a lot of money on a financial plan? Is specific measures taken to cope with the poor state of sexual abuse?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u13	A respectable president. I can mention here some examples of how this operation program is being financed. First, just over 240 million are spent to improve police standards. So is 50 million to the district attorney. We set about 40 million according to our plan to expand our education, improve research systems, and revise the protocols of the police. Also, there has been an expert in the Ministry of Justice for the implementation of this program. A total of 15 points were added to the country's police bodies, including six of them in the capital area, two offices received two status values, and then one status value for other offices. This underscores the national harmony of the emphasis on the treatment of sexual abuse. The aim of all the police authorities is to prepare them for the investigation and handling of these matters. As I only came into my previous speech, the emphasis on the sexual abuse is to shorten the duration of treatment, to put them first in the justice system, to better define the role of a court-care professional for crime, and last but not least to try to make better use of electronic management to prevent delays and improve efficiency in handling matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u14	Thanks for that. These were all the numbers I had seen in the financial program you listed here. The police and law enforcement work in Iceland have been subsidized for quite some time. The financial program also states that if I remember it correctly, they should provide additional funding for dealing with organized violations of crime and serious acts of violence. So I'm trying to get an answer about the money they're going to fund this operation plan. Is there enough money to deal with these problems, which lie within both law enforcement and natural, as well as within the legal system? There has also been a long treatment period in the court system, not just in the case of sexual abuse, but in general a long court treatment period. There may be a lack of expertise there, but there must also be a need for training and staff. What I'm trying to get the answer is if there's special earmarks here to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u15	I have considered only how we share this increased funds on individual projects and have what to do. A senator also concluded that this is being done in the budget. If we watch it after years, it will accumulate up to 2.4 billion for the better treatment of sexual abuse. This, in turn, goes down in different positions. We are primarily talking about increasing with the police, increasing the number of those who are specialised, and being able to concentrate on their work toward that class. Then, in another part of the system, we prepare for the ability to resist wrongdoing. Then I'm referring, for example. to the health system. Hv. A senator refers to the general level of law as a subcompliance, but we add to the full financial support of the law, as I have already taken care of this evening. That team, in fact, also puts its guard and prison case around it. In total, there are 4 billion in the strategy period. When these two are added together, these 2.4 billion and then again 4 billion, I think we can argue that we have not only made time in recent years to complete a plan, but we have been presented and followed in this financial program so that it is violated by the different offices how we are going to expand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u16	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Serving Minister of Justice, Bjarni Benediktsson, in his discussion of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice that we deal with in the state budget program of 2019-52023. First, I'd like to enter the area 9 of Public Security. It discusses an investment in three new helicopters, which are involved in improving the quality of living, and it is likely to result in increased efficiency and safety in business. It is a pleasure and a pleasure to comment on this discussion, but I would like to agree with the topic area surrounding the courts. It's not the largest budget if we take all these three fields, but these are over 3 billion per year throughout the season. Yet, there was a significant increase in funding for 2018, which included reorganization of the judicial system. Emphasis on the benefit of a new interjugation level, that the costs of the judiciary system do not increase beyond this benefit. I'm asking the highest. Minister to how he sees that efficiency and the use of money will be ensured.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u17	A respectable president. First with regard to the helicopters, how happy we are that we now see the time when we have the issue on which we will carry it out, and we will begin to carry it out! We will soon be able to extend and negotiate, and it must be said, just as it is, when such matters have become part of a financial program or in a general discussion, they are part of the reality, and they just start asking for the next issue, which is a matter that we still have to finish. This is not a small investment, these are some helicopters and each one who quits for billions of dollars. I'm happy for two reasons, on the other hand, because I've had the feeling that we don't take money well by renting helicopters as we've had to do in recent years and on the other hand, because of the progress that we're going to have to make in the field service. In the case of the courts, it is of great importance to remove pressure from the Supreme Court by means of the new court, that we can find a more rapid conclusion on these simpler matters, but are not drowning the highest court level on all matters, as it has been when we have had only one court of appeals. I am absolutely convinced that this change, which in all respects has received tremendous support from the beginning, will be effective and will increase confidence in the judicial system in the country. This led us to conclude that we would not be adding too much to the budget's budget, but the main points. A senator came to see that we have used it for this new period of judgment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u18	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff will answer and agree with the highest degree. Minister. The wedding is a great deal of joy, and it is evident that they will contribute greatly to the welfare and overall security, except for having the helicopters rather than renting two of the three available ones. Regarding the level of judgment, it is important to make better use of the money, as it were, of improving the ministry, that I agree with it. There's one subject I haven't established, which involves personal protection and religion. There are the districts, the Ministry of Justice, and the foreign affairs. I'm going to ask about the county because the management ground for the county that has changed in this changing environment has been proposed to be e-mailed. How does this project come about and how does the minister support developments in the case of the county? With regard to the National Institute of Foreign Affairs, there is an increased need for personal protection in view of the value of European regulations because there are no overall changes in expenses, but obviously there is to be an improvement in personal protection, I suppose. [[The president calls.]] In part, this was shown in the answer to a question given. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, but I'd like to hear a little bit more about this, for it obviously takes more money in personal protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u19	A respectable president. Only the county. We have reduced their numbers, strengthened them, and strengthened them. An electronic administration will have a significant effect on the county office, and we hope to be effective in increasing electronic interpretations in the coming years. In fact, extraordinary exciting things are happening there in an international context at the same time, as we see going on a discussion in relation to Šblockchain, and the possibilities that may be opening up there to build the foundation for future property registrations. I know this personally since 1995, after working as a county representative, on the other hand, by hand and electronic registration. It was about the driving record, it was electronic, but the real estate file was taken by hand, and we've certainly gotten some way out of generating these works all but we have, even though I'm not afraid to mention it - over 20 years, a considerable job after being done there. With the electrical power of this service, we can improve the efficiency and speed of the procedure, but safety may increase dramatically. With regard to new laws in the field of personal protection, I in itself do not have much to add as easily as possible. A senator here says, we are about to expand the rights of people in order to be more aware and to get personal information that is being stored on that subject and the order of this subject will respond to changes that may result in increased stress on the institutions to be monitored. It will be followed very firmly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u20	A respectable president. We're here discussing a proposal for the resolution of the government budget, as before, for the next five years, and now we'll discuss factors that are at the highest level. Minister of Justice, but the highest. The secretary of finance is here on his job and is here to answer. There are a number of issues under there. I'm interested in many of them, understandably. I'm just gonna follow in footsteps. paritaprevir Willum Þór, son of Þórsson, because I had now put my eyes on the very thing that asks. Minister of what I'm reading here at the court hearing. Expenditures to the jury have increased dramatically over the past few years. Of course there are explanations, the National Court, etc., but this is more. This has increased from 2.2 billion 2016 to 3.2 billion 2018. I figure I'm over 40%. All right. Everyone wants good courts. Good court system. This is, of course, one of the three principals of the government. Let us take a closer look. The judicial committee alone costs 293 million. I think it's a lot. The cost of specialised judges helping the judges has increased by more than 100% since 2011-2017. What's happening? The collapses are almost over. The number of oral private matters has been reduced. At the same time, authority has increased. More power. The number of judges in the province has increased at the same time. At the same time as all of this is happening, the duration of treatment has increased from 299 days in 2010 to 381 days in the last year. Speaking of sounds and pictures that don't go together, I think there's something wrong out there. My dear friends in the system will just have to excuse me for saying, "There's some explanation to explain." [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister how he can explain this discrepancies.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u21	A respectable president. What defines the budget for courts in Iceland is that we're primarily, or maybe I should say that living up to, talking about pay expenses. There's a very small business with courts. When donations to the courts grow, they are usually due to an increase in wages or judges. I'm going to allow me to apply this theory here, without specifically investigating it, that the number of special judges has been increasing in the years between 2011 and the past few years because of the many complex issues in the judiciary system. But that's right. A senator says that they are now shrinking. We have not, however, seen behind the last case, even though the last case was brought into the judgment system. Similarly, we have been responding to a situation that had become unacceptable and that concerned the exact time of treatment. To cope with this, we took action to establish a new level of judgment. I suppose that's what. A senator intended to refer to the land's rights rather than to the national court. The right of the land is exactly our answer to what should be done in the position that the Supreme Court is drowning in the number of languages we have seen in recent years. In part, we have with these specialized judges and others been working out the conclusions in preparation for the territory of the Land Court. That's why I think the figures are exactly what they are. A senator may not be picturing the situation as it will be after a year, two years, but more of the problem we have been dealing with in particular by establishing a new level of judgment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u22	A respectable president. I've looked it up about the specialists, first the highest. A minister mentioned them. The 2011 figures are: 48 million, and as this year increases. 2016: 114 million. 2017: More than 100 million It's not the crash case, it's something else. They ended in large measure, perhaps in 2011 and 2011,2013. I have more questions. I'm not going to go into this any further than thank you for the answer. This, of course, needs to be considered. We're so lucky, the Minister is also the highest. Secretary of finance and I'm going to ask about customs, including the customs and customs vehicle of the customs car, 2008, ten years old. She's a child of her time. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of whether and when he thought to improve the situation better and invest in a new car like that. Of course, this is a very necessary tool for customs to dislodge automobiles and containers and to be used in all parts of the country, and this has the power and the power to find drugs and to monitor the export of goods in general. That's 400 million. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether it is late to renew the car, age ten, and some plans for it. Since we've been talking about customs, I'd like to name the customs guards, they haven't increased in the past 20 years. The number has only fluctuating, but it's a very similar number, plus/minus 10, 15, but no increase. I ask: As the population grows so much and the population grows so much, and the import is growing, nothing is being left toll? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u23	A respectable president. With regard to the customs guard in the country, we have recently taken quite a deep discussion about it. I have to say just as it is that I agree with what. A senator when it comes to making sure that we have to protect our country's customs. It's true that these trucks have come to their own years. I have chosen in my ministry at the Ministry of finance to listen to the priorities stressed by a customs manager. True, the number of customs has had to be increased. In recent years, they have increased somewhat, perhaps not as much as well. A senator believes that he had to. But these diagnostic devices and machines are becoming more important. International cooperation provides information to us and requires communication in order to monitor the latest changes that are being made in an attempt to break the law. Since then, terrorism and such factors are beginning to develop more and more frequently in the cross-border conversations of policy makers. In addition, I would like to refer to what was discussed shortly before the nearness of the need for customs. We need to secure tools and tools, from tracking dogs to communications machines. But by using modern technology, we too can be very effective. [[The president calls.]] We've been increasing the number of customs, but it's not a definitive measure to whether we're on the right track for these jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u24	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to the same things as other things. Congress officials have first turned my attention to law enforcement. There are worthwhile goals and prospects set out in the financial program, which includes one objective. To define the nature of a law enforcement program. They're trying to promote law enforcement. There's something I think we all agree. However, I would like to point out that the current Minister of Internal Affairs gave the 2013 findings of a committee regarding the advancement of law enforcement, the implementation of a law enforcement program, and the definition of the role of law enforcement as such. It gave a very high point of 3.5 billion, over - priced increases, to set up budgets. The number of law enforcement officers should be increased by 236, improving the education and training of law enforcement officials. I mean, it's already begun, and I think it was very good of you to put it on campus and move to University of Akureyri. And then increasing the law enforcement equipment. V.E.G. In recent years, a minister has rightly said that the number of law enforcement officers has been increasing by about 30. But that is a long way from the 236 who was an proposed parapolitic committee, a representative of all classes. She reached that conclusion in cooperation with law enforcement, with the Ministry's experts. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is now working on a law enforcement program, because it is the highest. A minister has said that 1 billion go to law enforcement for the year, to the National Guard, and to the justice system - will he support the Minister in raising law enforcement officers even more than the increase shown in financial planning? How important it is that these matters be taken in hand! [[The president calls.]] Happily, during recent years a positive trend has been experienced, but it is very slow and inconformably consistent with the conclusion given by this transverse committee and by experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u25	A respectable president. I can say that I will support the minister of it, with emphasis on setting aside money to this topic area to further increase the number of police officers. As I have traced them in recent years, their numbers have increased. It is true that this committee's work is not as advanced as expected. However, it is worth noting that there is something more real than the 29 that I have mentioned since 2014 because of local police and despots. In this regard, it is also important that the efforts are made to get into trouble with police recruits. In this connection, the emphasis is to increase the number of students in the number of years spent in police studies that are now taught at a university level. At present, 40 students are expected to go through years, but the next loss is under way as the current number is not sufficient to meet the high police needs for the next few years. That's us working on the ground like this, at the end that can help with success, except for making enough money. I'm just going to agree otherwise, and I'm glad that the viewpoint is expressed in the discussion that it was important for a police officer to keep the laws and regulations in the country, to be careful to keep traffic safety and everything that concerns a wide range of police areas, from border control to sexual abuses that have been planned here. You feel when you meet police officers at meetings, as I did recently, that there seems to be tremendous pressures on people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u26	Mr. President. It may be unfair for me to expect a minister to give a clear answer whether these proposals have simply been set aside from 2013 onward. Because as I could before, from 236 police officers to 30, there is a long road, even 60, police officers. There's something we'll ask the highest. Minister of Justice about when she returns. I would like to go to one of the goals in the section on the courts. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. access to a court of law is a requisite, a hearing effective and just and human rights respected. Then comes the words: Court seats are solid. I think this last sentence is quite interesting in view of the fact that there is no operation in the financial program as such which aims to accurately increase confidence in courts. As we know, their confidence has recently been measured to a historic level 32%. I believe we can all unite in building confidence in courts. I feel that it is quite special to set goals in the financial program without then deciding how to achieve it. The need is urgent, and we know that our goals will not come naturally. That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers to how much money will be exactly spent on this point, to strengthen confidence in courts, and how will that be precisely spent? Will there be a plan? Will it be discussed here at the council? Will these progressive actions be taken? We must discuss financial programs, including the rest of the world. Based on the actions that must follow, the goals set in it must be set.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u27	A respectable president. In recent years, with confidence in courts, the situation has been established into a government treaty, and it has been a cause for conferences, including those of the United States. The Court's office. In the end, I don't think that we can take the assignment entirely in our arms, either the Minister of Justice or the Council, but more like our joint assignment to consider all the factors that make this case possible in our country to solve the work we have assigned to do. In this regard, I must again mention the changes we have been doing on the court order by establishing a new level of judgment. I have no doubt that over the years it can add confidence in the judicial system. The courts themselves, e.g. The Supreme Court, has recently responded to criticism of market problems and has recently established rules on how to account for the interests of those sitting in the Supreme Court. I make this up because there may be some cases of determined isolation that gather on some basis for improved confidence in the courts. As a result, I feel that there are no speculative, reserved funds on this project in particular in the budget. Rather, it can be both tangible and indistinguishable ways that we work together to that end in the courts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u28	A respectable president. I'm just gonna keep going with it for a little while. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir was talking about. To me, it was interesting to hear the highest. Ministers say that he would take it well as a minister of finance if the supreme. Minister of Justice focused on increasing the number of police officers. As the focus is on financial programmes, it is said to promote border protection, which is normal because of our commitment to Schengen. There is talk of promoting sexual abuses that are not to be called for many words of need. It is also said to support the identification department of the police chief for financial failures, which is also extremely necessary. However, when it comes to increasing the number of citizens in general, it is only said that the government's plan is to strengthen the general law enforcement and research in order to reach the level of service and meet the growing number of tourists. There are 200 officers missing in this country. Of these, 100 police officers are missing in the capital area. It's a crazy situation. It is not new. The National Association of Officers and State Marshals has repeated a plea for this shortage. So I ask the highest. Minister if he is not concerned about the safety of the public when the police are so financing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u29	A respectable president. As I've made my entry into previous talks, we've got one complete team in this topic field of about a billion; it's building up to 4 billion over the financial programme period. Of this team, the plan is to strengthen the operation of the police, including the U.S. ... witha growing police department. In fact, there are other groups of cases, such as prisons and diplomacy, which also require additional financial resources. However, it is quite clear that we are expected to continue to increase the number of police officers and strengthen the operation of the police. Besides, we have in the border guard a special budget, an increase of 3.5 billion in the season. Part of it is the addition of the police's equipment on border protection to ensure safety and additional efficiency, but especially to prevent a drop in the payload. We need to make sure that he is all right and that he has something to do with the passenger tour. I think that when this is taken together, the growth of border protection over there and this exclusive team, we are in a very clear way setting aside a very large sum of money to meet the appeals there is. But I can simply agree with that. There is a senator, both here in the capital area but also in many places around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u30	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister spoke of a measure of enthusiast in the past about the electricalization of a businessman. I hope we don't look ahead to the police electronicization, so we see electrical officers on street corners running the traffic in the near future at least. A police officer has spoken of a limited number and a predictable lack of police officers, except for the pressures of police officers, appearing in many ways, e.g. in the long-term illness, more accidents and increased termination. I'd like to reiterate a question to the highest level. Minister to see if I understand him correctly, whether he is willing to employ increased funds to increase the number of police beyond the proposed amount.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u31	A respectable president. I replied earlier that if the Justice Department of Justice wanted to prioritize the limited financial resources involved in the Ministry of Justice to an increased extent that I would support it. This will be provided that there is no additional amount of money at the expense of other lawsuits. I think it is by far the best thing to let the Minister of Justice control this discussion. In the case of electricalization and electronic administration, police in recent years have done a great job, including: by using social media and by keeping the people in the country informed about the daily activities being done there, maintaining good contact with people, and giving people the opportunity to submit tips, etc. I think we're just starting to get to the surface of the tools in the electronic communications between the police and the citizens. For example, from other countries it is possible to look up in very simple ways about so many of the law - enforcement activities, from traffic accidents to serious offenses, to locate them in neighborhoods, and at intersections, etc. I think we have a lot left in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u32	V.E.G. President. Now I have a chance to thank the highest. Minister for his answers earlier on the customs guard. I realize that, as revealed in our discussions the other day, it's not just the people that need, it's equipment, there's dogs, and certainly the men to care for them. But I'd like to ask you about the amount. She didn't have much to do with it. Other than that. We've been discussing here a little bit of law enforcement, we've had customs, we've talked about sex offenders having higher priorities that are good. There is one organization left in the U.S. Prison Department. As a result, during the New Year's Day, 570 individuals were sentenced to abduction. At the same time, chief. A minister is the prison of Hólmsuk, which cost billions of dollars in construction, half the time because there is no human being to work there. You can't hire someone. It's just so tragic, it's like buying a fire truck and not having enough oil for it. It's not incorrigible, chief. Minister. In the case of a guard on the night shift, there is one guard in the city of Sweden who is in the prison of 23 cheered in his ways. This one jailer recently suffered a health crisis on the night shift, with a full house of prisoners. There's no safety in this. And what happens if fire comes up? One prison guard on duty, this is incorrigible, my minister. So I would like to ask: What are we going to do to solve the terrible situation in our country's prisons? Prison guards have grown to the point that they are looking for trouble. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to answer my questions about what to do in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u33	A respectable president. I just have to say the word. When it comes to our being amazed at how we could end up in this place, after many, many years, waiting for a new prison that finally came to reality here after the election, in 2013, would be properly planned for completion. How, then, could we get to that place after talking about it for many years, that we would have to go to this project to make reforms in prisons and ensure better equipment, then to sit down with it a half - life and a long wait list for penalties? The Minister of Justice has responded to this situation, which is rooted in a lack of financial resources. The prison and minister have certainly been built to reduce the financial resources to the activity that has been held out of the north, in Akureyri, and to turn it into simple forms. We take money to business at Hólmshön, and we add what we need in order to make better use of the facilities we have there. This is clearly what the Minister of Justice has suggested, and I think there can be a great improvement. Other than that, I just have to say, as it is, that there's damage because there's a long time before abduction. It is not a situation that we can live up to. But it's being taken, including with what I'm referring to. We hope that the increased donations found in this financial program can be of assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. But I'd like to ask him to step in here because I have a suggestion for him. It is in itself a fine price to bring a service from Akureyri and south; in fact, the prison in Akureyri will leave in a few wounds. But I have a suggestion for the highest. Ministers first so fine in hunting that we are here in one and the same man, both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of finance, the Honourable. I have that suggestion for the highest. Minister, that already in my year, the jail office is receiving an additional budget in order to shorten the waiting list, 570 men's waiting list, considerably. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to bear in mind that there's a considerable difference -- we're talking about a sentence of 12 months plus. It is important to start working on this step now that it is June rather than next New Year's Eve. So, my name is Minister, we can only hand it over now, since he's here twice tonight, that he will see to it that by now my year he will have the prison office of this extra cash to shorten this waiting list which is destroying a lot of people who are waiting for a release for years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u35	A respectable president. Yeah, it's one of the court order smells. We have here in our discussion tonight about the session of the courts, how much time it took to shorten it, and to trust the courts so that they can take up the proper handling of the cases that are being received there. Then it is the other end that in prison sentences, it is necessary to ensure that these can be served. The Minister of Justice has been asking if it is possible to contribute funds between the institutions to further ensure the funding of Hólm honour. Still there is to be a final outcome to this case. That is one of the factors to consider. Otherwise, I refer to our discussion of a total financial point up to one billion each year, four billion for the next few years. The prison business, as well as the handling of the law that we've been discussing here tonight, allows for room. Other than that, I just have to say yes. A senator says this must happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u36	A respectable president. In the case of law enforcement, the number of cops may be reduced. Or not. I think it's obvious, and it's been said in the discussion that, of course, they haven't increased enough in terms of what has been done. I'm not gonna waste my time reviewing this, but there are many reports and reports, and over and over again, that there's a lot more police need to be than they are. The number 200 has been mentioned many times, and this has not been fulfilled either now or five years ago or ten. Never, and it doesn't seem like there's any remedy now. I emphasise, and will not ask him to answer this again, that there will be increased general and visible law enforcement. It is not happening with the current number of police officers, along with police officers who are busy with all kinds of other projects, as we have seen here. I'd rather go into other matters, and I'd like to start with the National Guard, who may have been mentioned by now. I'm glad to be on the move, but I'd like to mention one more, the days of a guardship. Over the past few years, the logs have not been held at sea sufficiently. It's very important to promote our own immunity here in the country. It has to do with the safety of seafarers, as well as the rise and potential rise of a boat ride past the country by opening the way north to Russia and across the Pacific Ocean. This puts us under various new obligations as we are in the middle of the North Atlantic. There is a need to expand and strengthen the Armada of the National Reservation Guard and strengthen its endurance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u37	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. Senator. In this financial program, therefore, it is expected that this need will be taken into account for strengthening the ministry. We also want to look for ways to improve practicality, and depending on incidents, we might look for new sources of energy. But the survival of the watch ships has been like a dog. A senator says that in recent years the number of people has declined. One ship is at sea each time. It may take up to 48 hours to get to the scene of an accident or an accident in the economic law. To reach an acceptable safety and service level, which is 24 hours on the alert, we need two ships at sea, and we need to increase the number of crews. That's why there's even Emphasize these aspects of the budget. The helicopters play a big part here. Satisfactory security and service levels in search and saving of the marine waters around Iceland assume that the Marine Corps will always be able to save sailors within six hours. The ability to react is now committed only to over half of the year, where the crew is too few. In this regard, we should mention that in recent years we have seen that the number of rescue helicopters in the country has increased dramatically because of tourists who are the new service factor to be done. As we look at the overall score, helicopter calls have never been more than in 2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u38	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, and he has a few more questions. I'm concerned about the findings of the European Commission in the province, i.e. The county. As we know, they have reduced their numbers and are simply salted by the budget of this year and the last years. I'm worried about this, and I think it's very important to keep this service in the district. There's only nine of them. The citizens go to great lengths for support, counseling, and assistance. I'm worried about all the work that's under there. Don't let them get hung down any more than the word is, but it needs to be given a little bit. I'm finally asking about a cop camera. Of course, this is not as true as it is in some parts of the country as it is between rural society and police to see if cameras are to be set up or not for the expense. So I ask a minister, does he have any ideas or plans to come in here by the police and finance the formation of law enforcement cameras? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u39	A respectable president. I can match that. A senator that needs to be noted that the county office is hot and equipped to carry out its various tasks. Above all, we should look forward to taking advantage of the office to render service that is being performed elsewhere, including the ministry that is being performed elsewhere. in the capital area and from here to shore. The Agency can be ideal for such projects. However, regarding what was asked and about the cameras, I have to say just as it is that I have repeatedly asked myself about how it is possible to be equipped as one who obviously pays for himself over time is not put up with the argument that there is no financial support. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] That's where I think we can do better than that. Perhaps there is no need for further improvement in the aims and implementation of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u40	Mr. President. For the other day's inquiry to the highest level. The Minister of Justice for the Justice Department declared that she wanted to continue with the legal program that would soon be discussed in the fall. It would be helpful to discuss it in the light of the discussion of police officers and to analyze the need to increase their numbers. But then, according to the minister's words, the complete plans, the legal plans, and the prosecution's plan were put aside. They were to be integrated into a financial program. This was done even. On the basis of a law on public financial matters that is not natural, because it was set in motion by a legal security program of highly motivated by the then secretary of 2015 and 2016 and the Ministry's administration to try to meet these exact requirements and do this out of ambition. This was done by a special employee, head of the project, Sigurður Tómas Magnússon. I would like to emphasize the importance of continuing these programs, including to build trust in courts, and to keep the charge better. I'm warning you this is going to be all set aside. Of course, we will pay close attention. There's one question and perhaps not fair of me, got something into the night, which I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for Björkism, which is an experimental project on the victims of violence, of any kind of violence. It's kind of thinking like a "one-stop" step to the victims of any form of violence. We have three members of the Ministry. I do not see any place in the budget or because it existed for two years, how to carry on with this vital work. I'd like to ask if it's the highest. Ministers know something about this or whether this will be just one of the priorities of a minister in relation to this recent U.S. Department of Justice, which is impregnable.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u41	A respectable president. I have to admit that I don't know enough of Bjarkarll's subjects to tell me about them. But I'm going to use this opportunity to say that we sometimes go this way here to the budget or on the individual topic areas to start a temporary project. Sounds like there's one of those. There should be nothing wrong with a person's accepting the results of that work and determining if there is any basis for continuing. They will be the ones involved in this matter. However, much of our budget has been set in motion in many places, and the budgets of the past few years have set in motion temporary projects. I give the example of the Inspired by Iceland project, although it is not related to what we're discussing here. This was specifically initiated in connection with volcanic eruptions and was to be a temporary effort for three years. But then it will be part of your annual expenses, and we will just move it into the tourist business like any other project that will live forever. Many other such projects could be made. I'm not going to tell myself about this particular case, but I'm going to refer to these general words. The minister and others involved need to comment on this. For other things, I notice the emphasis. A senator said that they were well - thought - out and a good foundation for the future. But all of this work, this debate that takes place here, is beginning new ways at the council, taking in a detailed discussion of the plans of all counselors five years into the future. I'm just gonna let me finish my case by saying how much change it is at the council in a discussion about the provision of public funds into the future having this conversation with the Ministry of Education. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I've made this statement before that we're building up the budget and we're going to this annual report for the council for the first time this summer. [[The president calls.]] I think this will be very good in the long run.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u42	Mr. President. Only with regard to business practices and financial practices. I can simply say business to the highest level. A minister said earlier. Earlier tonight, in fact, I was shocked to be inexperienced. I'm still trying to look back in time, and I have to say and I know that. I'm sure the president agrees with me that we are improving how we discuss these matters, although the time the members receive the dose is not very high. What do we get in two minutes? I would have wanted this week to discuss this because of the importance of the seminars and because we're discussing this five years into the future. But I'm sure we'll just do this next year and learn a little bit from this because we need to take some time to get involved, so that we don't necessarily go out as a government/control situation to throw balls between us, defend ourselves, and pick up. I think it would be much more helpful for the council and for this coverage, which has been very objectively learning from this discussion. But I agree with the highest. The secretary of finance now that this arrangement is a step forward, a step toward the fact that the council is trying to succeed. To say that, I'd like to celebrate. [[The president calls.]] Thank you, chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u43	A respectable president. Here we have an example in the law enforcement procedures of how we are setting ourselves up for tablet goals, guidelines, and measures. When we begin to get used to our annual reports from the Parliament regularly to follow up on how we have been successful, I think that we are completely new in the relations of the council and the executives to see if the amount of money that has been committed to the individual conventions was actually new, why the goals have not been met, whether it is due to lack of control and follow-up, or whether the money has been missing, whether the professional minister has been using himself. He needs to come here to the council and answer when his goals are not reached. At the same time, however, a minister will be given an opportunity to put on his chest when he has set goals that will get caught and perhaps be better. But here we are listing the situation as it is in the past year, and the criteria for the services, law enforcement and security levels, the trust and the honest police, etc. [[The president calls.]] These are totally new times that I have to take advantage of the opportunity to celebrate again.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u44	Then there is a complete discussion on the case of the Minister of Justice, as well as the completion of last night's discussion on the topic issues of all Ministers, 9 today and one. It is a long work day to run its course, here has been an unsaid debate, a meeting for 15 hours. The president would like to express his satisfaction in the way they have done it, although it is otherwise not customary to give special grades at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u45	The president considers it possible for a meeting meeting to last longer than the Council of Congress to allow or until the end of the previous part of the discussion on budget 2019/2023 is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u46	Today, there is an earlier discussion on the budget of 2019-22023 by the Ministers explaining and participating in discussions about them. Ministers have five minutes in the beginning to discuss their lawsuits. Since then, members of Congress, one of every administrative body, with the exception of members of the panel of the local minister and two from each opposing side, have the means to direct inquiries to the minister. In the first round, members and ministers have two minutes twice, but in the second round two minutes before the first time and one minute in the second. Those answers are not allowed. The order of the Ministers will be as follows: Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Marine Elimination and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Legal Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u47	Mr. President. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Presidency does not bring many lawsuits, I will discuss the financial agenda in general in my introduction here, and then I will come in very short on the budgets that are especially heard under the Ministry at the end of my speech. The financial agenda we're discussing here is a plan for the application. It is about strengthening social infrastructure, health, education systems, transportation systems, and so forth. There is also the fact that not all questions are answered in this financial program, rather than any other political document, and the financial agenda is presented to form an active conversation with the labour market partners on the continuation of issues in particular the interaction of reforms and tax systems with the aim of achieving an increased reconciliation on the social structure of these systems. In view of the figures, it turns out that there is a planned increase in money that leads to health and welfare. This is how health care costs of up to 60 billion and 40 billion are planned. There are certain language groups that weigh more than others, but as we know that this country has established health priorities when asked opinions in the surveys of the past few years. Therefore, we contribute a substantial increase in expenses to this category, but at the same time the proposed health policy is used to better define health priorities. However, certain priorities can already be analyzed, and I would like to specifically mention plans to reduce the expense of patients who have been in the country more than anywhere else in the North. I'll mention the production of micro-energy pensioners, but there are planned significant improvements and improvements in this financial programme, as well as consultations with micro-organization donors on how to expand these improvements intended to contribute to micro-organization services to the best benefit. As we examine other groups of subjects, I must name the academic issues, since we see a change from a previous course. Schools are no longer intended, and this is a university application. Then I must mention the environment, but I doubt that the environment has ever been stamped in as thoroughly as in this financial program. We watch a 35% increase, one for nature protection and the development of infrastructure and the other for climate change. Everyone in this room knows we can't afford to wait for climate activities. In total, 338 billion are expected in investments. Is that not irresponsible? ... someone here will ask me. I know exactly who are going to ask me, and I'm happy to answer it: No, it's not irresponsible. What do we see in the economy? We see that economic growth is decreasing, it is now possible to deliver an injection into the interior and at the same time respond to the public's obvious call for the structure of social infrastructure. It's been a big deal, not just in last elections, but in those last elections too. All of these have been preached in one way or another, the construction of social infrastructure. All classes have spoken about health issues. All classes have been talking about transportation. The General agreed to the 2016 Transport Program, which it did not so finance, but of course we need to look for ways to finance the ideas we especially want to take place at the World Council. This is what I consider wise economic policy, but I also consider reasonable socialism. It is a work to do in these social infrastructures, and then we need to look at it so that, at this point, there is a good economic policy of increasing the injection, thus moving the economy. Finally, I mention the lawsuits that are especially heard under the Ministry of Presidency because there may be some who want to ask questions about them. There are three things I'd like to mention there. There's going to be a big increase. Senators may ask themselves what it runs into. Yes, she's specifically planned for a building for the Board of Directors. That decision was made during the Council of Congress on the grounds of the 100 - year - old sovereignty. Then it was agreed to attack the Council of Control and to build at the Management Board. However, this is suggested in order to reassign investments during the period, to delay them from one year to the previous financial programme. This is based on the approval of the Generals. Increased costs are expected to be paid to the secretary's assistants. Someone may sacrifice his hands over it. The fact is, in 2013 the helpers were increasing in favor of the government's decision to complete their work. Since then, there have been just as many, but they have not been expected in financial programmes or budgets. Rather, they have been taken into account by means of financial contributions. I'd much rather it's on tables. We know the cost of this, and there is no reason for us not to assume it in a financial program. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to mention special funding to the Children's Director, because it's the interests and purposes of this government to put children ahead of all our policy. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs has considered it, but we also do so through a child's agent.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u48	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister in the grandest part of the world. The government intends to exert itself on increasing social equations. The financial program discusses the possibility of changing the child - welfare system, but more money is not expected to be expected. Now the system has begun to impair child benefits far below the minimum wage. For couples, child reforms are fully reduced from income to 470K. every month if the couple has one child and about 570,000 K. ... onyouif there are two children. A couple both who have paid jobs but whose jobs are low get small child benefits here. Children's families enjoy poverty more than families without children. There has been great agreement on the value of support for children's families in the North countries. The budget does not expect more families to be compensated or to increase considerably. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister said in his discussion about the budget yesterday that he could not agree for his part that people with a higher income will get child support. His view seems to be that child support should be primarily poverty, with nothing to settle the status of children with those who do not share children. It's the highest. Prime Ministers agree with these emphasis on child improvement and that it does not stand to strengthen an equation during the terms of the election, with higher amounts and support for more children's families?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. I agree with what. A senator that there is a need for political discussion on how we want to develop these systems. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has already discussed these matters in this room. Just so I'll just go over the situation in child support, raise the child support from last year's budget. Last year's budget was 10.5 billion. But only 9.6 billion were paid out. The budget of this year, 2018, has increased to ensure that the budget has been fully replaced, i.e. 10.5 billion k. That's a 10% increase in child improvement. There is a 7% increase in the balance of income and 8.5% increase in financial gains. Unlike what has sometimes been held in this room, the ratio of concentrations of inhibition remains unchanged. However, when it comes to considering which course to take with the child - saving system, there is the possibility that we want to communicate with the labour market partners, especially the labor movement, about how we want to develop this system. Like what? A candidate might ask: Do the benefits simply include following a child, regardless of parental income, or are they to have some kind of money problem in the system, making it more useful for people with less income and less intermediate income? I think it's important to call for viewpoints, especially the labor movement. It has specifically been spoken of as being more supportive of income groups through tax systems and reform systems. Hv. A senator speaks of how to improve the equation. We do so especially through these systems. Therefore, we submit a review of the income tax system, allowing a tax reduction equivalent to a 1% reduction in the income tax rate, but in financial programmes it also shows that the output of this reduction is actually unattracted. Do we want to do this in order to make a review of the person's discount, making it some part of the step difference, or making it the most useful to the earner? It's open to me to look at such ways. The primary objective should be, such as haze. A senator said, to ensure the increased equation through the tax and reform system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u50	Mr. President. In recent years, the child - reform system has been weakened, and a growing number of families are being supported. Since 2013 the number of families has decreased by 12,000 who have the support of the child reform system. The budget does not reveal that these systems should be strengthened. It is the foundation of prosperity, and it has the highest value. The prime minister repeatedly points to this hall and quotes prominent scholars in these matters. I believe it is, Mr. President, a political decision to use the electronic devices that are child support, housing support, and a higher personal discount. These are known facts. The unions have called for this, and it is only a political decision that has to be made to use these devices. It is not to see that this political decision is to be made on the budget or during this terms. Sexual exchanges of pay are a fact in the Icelandic labour market. Women have on average 13% less pay than men, and an unexplained difference in pay is 5.7%. Large groups of women working for the government and making this amount of pay, i.e. the public keeps the women's classes down. As I said before, equality and an equality are the basis of prosperity. I expect the highest. The prime minister did not change his mind and agree with me on this. Is it not, then, that the political decision of the State and the official to reduce sexual pay by increasing the female classes in the open agreements?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u51	Thank you. Again, a senator thanks her for specifically reviewing my references to various equations of scholars. I'd be happy to tell you what's going on too. The senator that the tax changes that this government has made focus on the increase in equations. I'll let myself have less time. According to a senator's opinion, the tax change that was established here during the past year was just about to raise the capital tax by two percentages. This increase falls primarily on those most of them. If we examine what factors are involved that in Western lands, that is especially true. So that's what we should be talking about here. One of the things I think it is reasonable to talk to the labor movement's representatives about is how we look for the inequities shown in the property position, perhaps primarily rather than the pay period, which is another standard that may give less evidence according to the scholars. A senator would likely refer also to his case. I second that this discussion is ahead, and that's in line with what I said before the election. What have we seen on tax issues in recent years, say a decade, in the decade I've been attending a council? The number of changes has been determined back and forth, usually not with much consultation in advance. It's my fault. It's like the rest of the politicians here who've been here for the past ten years. Since then, they have been undone. That's why I said before the election: The change I want to see in government tax matters is that there is an effort to create an increased level of agreement on that matter, not only at the General Assembly, but also with the important ones in the labour market that are these people in this country. That's why I reiterate that I think it's important for us to be prosecuting tax changes, that there's not anything left here that will be undone after some year. Then I would like to say that sex - based pay, which has happily been reduced in this country, is now 4.5%, according to the latest Laboratory measurements, of course, that the method of action needs to be considered. [[The president calls.]] We are now working under the approval of the last council for the induction of a equally pay witness, which hopefully will result in the elimination of sexual wages. [[The president calls.]] I'm trying to get back to women's classes, I'm sorry, Mr President, later at the end of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u52	This has to be because the session has passed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u53	Mr. President. The financial strategy that has been seen here has led to disappointment. Under these circumstances, there has been some mention of the trade union between the employee and the industrial organizations. The big news in this subject is that the plan brings no good news to those whose feet are in the community, on the contrary. On the other hand, those who get the good news are the scales in Arion's bank. They're having a 2 billion tax reduction. Now the petition boys on Wall Street are cheering for the kindness of the left green. Not 2 billion for older citizens, not 2 billion for disability, not 2 billion for transport. No, 2 billion in a petition to the hedge fund in order of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The service of this government to the hedge fund goes beyond the entire group of thieves. First, they sold the government's stock on subsidiary, and now they reduce their taxes to about 2 billion. Next time, they'll probably cancel the stability proposals. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is the government of the hedge fund. That's the right thing. What has happened to the left of the green? In turn, progress is just as usual in its own fragility, but the Independence Party is getting its way. Who, in fact, is the real prime minister of this government? It's just Bjarni Benediktsson. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is this priorities - not for disability, not for older citizens, no, in behalf of the hedge fund - what the left stand for?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u54	Mr. President. I've just got a riddle, it's like, "How many misspellies can be placed in two minutes?" I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's serf fell into some sort of record here in this so - called inquiry. The government of the hedge fund! Give me another one. Senator, I'm just saying. What we're doing in this financial program is making money from financial companies, including by attacking the long necessary structure of the transport system, exactly as I foretold for elections, exactly as my government colleagues proclaimed before elections, while the company of the eruptions. The senator announced that big investments should be taken in buying the third bank, since there are two different countries. When the object of Arion's bank was sold, and why. Of course, a senator is aware of this, although he chooses to overlook it, was doing a agreement from 2009 that the government, which was in stability, confirmed and presented here in a very special discussion with the head of the Central Party, a party each. Senator. Therefore, it was not against that fine chairman but, rather, under that view. It refers to the bank tax that was placed in the frequent government of the Independence Party and the forwarding party to finance the so - called debt correction. Now I'm going to let myself have less time. A senator noted that when this correction of debt was made in a famous report, it was primarily used by the largest public property in the world, whereas the bank tax has now become nine times higher than when it was first applied. Then I must correct it, and ask the people to stay slow here in the hall, since they cannot afford to listen to the truth, boy. A senator, that when we look particularly at the increase in biofuel rates, we are looking at a 6 billion increase in 2018, which is considerably more than in the last financial program when we consider the subjects of the elderly. There you can also see an increase of 2 billion. Hv. A senator must be careful to handle numbers right here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u55	Mr. President. I didn't do anything wrong. That's what's going on. The bank tax should be reduced by 5.7 billion dollars. [[Up front.]] Of these, 2 billion go directly to the hedge fund in Copenhagen. It's very simple. There's no way to argue about this, chief. Prime Minister. This social lesion, however, cannot be solved against a cent for disability. That's not possible. It's nothing but slavery to the hedge fund. How can this be understood differently? Sell the letters at the bell? And now it's time to negotiate from the stability conditions because it's so hard for the hedge fund, they can't put the banks on the market because it's gonna happen to have such a bad effect on them, etc. Of course, the government is going to participate in that discussion. It's just simple. It's a dead end. Expecting that in the goodness that has existed here, groups of people like disability and older people could be brought to nothing by long - term and timely impairment. I haven't taken any false records here, chief. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u56	Mr. President. I just reiterate what was said in my case earlier, okay? A senator must read what is currently being said to form a microenergy pensioner, which he makes as a publicity agent. 6 billion increase in 2019 It is reviewed in a text as to what that increase is all about. It is, in fact, there. preached to dissuade a cent in front of a dollar. This was shown in the case of the highest. Mr President, yesterday's Department of Social Affairs, puts it in the text of the plan, and we're obviously not gonna be able to keep up with the financial agenda without at least to have this discussion about the financial programs we are discussing. We can criticize the fact that this is not done fast enough, that it is not already there, that it takes too long. We can criticize it, but we keep to the facts of the plan. When it comes to the bank tax, I want less of it. A senator owns what I said before. This process is being financed by special additional funds from the financial system. The bank tax was set up as a temporary operation during the 2013 /2016 period of government and extension. He has returned nine times more than was originally intended because he was put on an operation to finance a special correction. This bank tax would have been applied only because the swellings were added to the 2012 financial law. For this there was an excellent conspiracy in its time; but to fall here in that pit--fall here in that pit, I say--to begin talking about the hedge fund being having the money of microchip, of course, is nothing but nonsense. Here we are looking to ensure that micro-energy pensioners are real menial reform reformed in collaboration with micro-energy pensioners with targets that include them. To lift a crown against a crown. This is completely in the way. Head for the good. A senator, on the other hand, is to make sure that the State has not two banks but three. I'd like to know exactly how that policy is going to be used to the public in this country. [[The point is, there is no problem.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u57	A respectable president. Of course, there are various ways in which you can approach the subject. At times, when you listen to the talks of some members of the government stand, you might feel that in the years ahead, cutting is more about to be done. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the implementation of this financial programme will increase the expenditure of the case, with the exception of the interest costs of about 132 billion between 2017 and 2023 - 132 billion in real value. Where's the biggest increase? It's in good health, in health care, in the case of microbubble 17 billion, in the interests of older citizens of 17 billion, and in the family sector 98 billion of this 132. Then, of course, people come up here and they want to say that it's almost that way. Prime Minister and we who support this government have a sharp knife. Not at all. This, however, is not surprising, nor is it at all the highest. Prime Minister, I also have an interest in the income gate and my views on it. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, because it is stated in the financial programme that it is considered to reevaluate the income tax system, redesign it, with the aim of raising the personality rate substantially, but then making it step down as income increases. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is it consistent with the basic concept presented in this article, and will she work to achieve this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this question. It is, of course, that the role of the tax system is to earn money and government and care for the expenses we want public to pay. Then it's this equation role that I've made to talk about repeatedly here. My basic conclusion is that a multi-stage tax system is the best way to settle income, but it's not the only way. One point that has been discussed is that it is a bad time. This is the case with a candidate in the financial program, i.e. to achieve actually the same effect through the character discount, that it will be expansive, up to a certain degree progressive, and then gradually decline after the peak is reached. If this means returning the target I would like to see the income tax system returned, i.e. If the particular equation within the tax system, I am open to examine it. I'd like to say, because I've been preaching with the labor movement, it's the way some people in it stress very much. Then I'd like to look forward to taking advantage of the time ahead of us to see the next year's financial bill to figure out how this route would come out, where this limit would lie where we would see this change. The personality discount would rise to some limit, then go down - where would we set that limit? If I understand the growing trend in society, I'm willing to handle it as I would any other way. In these matters, we should look at our goals, not just the way. That's what we're going to do for an opinion on this route and calculation, so I'm hoping to do it, and it's the result we're going to do when we take a budget bill for the next year's inspection. Then we can further discuss whether we feel that this way will bring us the goals we want to pursue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u59	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister very much. It's a pleasure to be loved. Ministers like this should take a good look at ideas like this. I've been looking at some of these recent transfers myself, and I've been considering that the personal discount will be 300,000 bucks. and then step down. That, of course, is a titration factor and an implementation. We can imagine him dropping about 2,000 bucks. For every 10,000 bucks. as income increases, etc. That means that those with more than a million or so, 1,100,000 earn a month get nothing from personal discount. It's much wiser and more efficient than the income taxation system we have, which is defective. If we're trying to straighten out the less paid by, for example, increasing the person's discount, or trying to zoom out the tax percentage, it's a very expensive method. Just a thousand dollars for an increase in personality discount that goes up the stairs means about... 2.7 billion, if I recall correctly, on a lower income for a government fund. It actually shows more than any defect in the income tax system. I'm just going to be less than the highest. However, the prime minister is to say that if you are going to make a multi-stage income tax, you first create such a complicated, unjust tax system with all the perimeter taxes and all the traps that you cannot see to it that I strongly warn you. But I am especially glad that Prime Minister is interested in this review and that it will be done in consultation with a labour market organization. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u60	Mr. President. I'm just gonna take over the multi-stage tax system. I can't resist it because, of course, I know the effect. A senator points to, i.e. The peripheral effects of such a system, and no tax system is perfect. However, the multi-step system does not necessarily have to be more complex than others. Of course we have a multi-step system today. We have two steps in the income tax system, we don't have a flat system because we want a certain equation effect. Another factor that has been discussed is that we have two steps. As noted by ASI, the steps do not follow the same indicator number, i.e. On the one hand, we have a pay number and, on the other, an consumption index in how the steps develop which creates an imbalance in the system. Therefore, I now believe that there is good reason for us to reevaluate our system, that we look at the ways that have just been run by an organization of employee in particular. It has been viewed as a personal discount. I agree with what. A senator that it is not necessarily a practical way to raise the character discount flat, rather than to look at this step change - in effect, it may be a reverse step change. There is, of course, a complication in that, too. But rather than contribute to the careful implementation of it here, we see to it that we speak in our own words. We're also going to take this up at the General Assembly, because, of course, we need, as I said in my opening words, not only to look out to make peace with our tax systems at the labour market party, but also here at the council. Of course, that is also thought - provoking. Because I mentioned a lot of tax changes in the last decade. If we just compare ourselves to the North countries where there has been a work model, men have been content to work in a particular labour market model, we are also not seeing dramatic changes in income tax systems or reform systems between different governments. We don't see these corruptions around the government trade in the North countries. Of course, it would be very desirable if we could get to the place where we would be reasonably happy about how we were going to ensure this role. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u61	Mr. President. I come up here on behalf of Pirata because I'm on the board of administration and monitoring committees that will be carried out by the General and the Directorates, the President, the Constitution and the Supreme Commission, who represent the topic range at the Presidency table under the order of the President's decision. That's why I want to focus my discussion on these issues these two minutes and the two that I have again. The Treaty states that for the benefit of the general public, it should be promoted by the Council, made progressively stronger, and more effective. What I'd like to hear from the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir - what I really want is to see this work. I want to know if the financial programme is working toward this, but don't just put it out of control, i.e. Where is the limit to our ability to do this? This is fundamental to our fulfilling our role. It is stated in the financial programme itself - this is a knowledge of the natural world, which is specifically mentioned here, by permission of a president: The role of the Generals is the legislation and operation of the European Commission. The Office of the Council is responsible for the administration of the Parliament and has the responsibility to ensure professional management of the activities of the Generals so that members of the Parliament can carry out the work assigned to them by constitution, Congress, and other laws. If this were possible in the real world, and it would be a real desire to work toward it and to have a conversation if things are not working, it is my job on a board of administration and monitoring committee to be able to do this. My role in the Presidency Committee is to be able to supervise the Directorateship of the Generals, and I would be in a position where I would like to be able to work professionally for the people of the country. This is a conversation I want to take advantage of the opportunity to deal with the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, and hear her approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording these views. We are at this point now that the law on government finance was adopted here, and financial plans are submitted accordingly. I am one of those who criticized these laws back then. I criticized two things, one on the 7th floor. While there are certain limits to debt and otherwise, I may have felt that the role of the Parliament was not clearly defined in the law. The Parliament will run the budget according to the constitution, this has been under discussion at the level of the administrative and monitoring committee. I see what. paritaprevir This is Haraldur son of Benediktsson, who knows that he was among those who brought up a discussion of how we ensured the Council's financial authority in terms of new financial laws. As I understand why. A senator is contemplating the arrival of the Parliament to a financial program when it is proposed by the European Commission. Is it reasonable that we may have increased consultation with the council at an earlier stage, before a financial program is submitted, rather than that the council will then make changes as we know it during the conquistancy treatment? It would then be to bring us more towards the Norse Congress, where the agreement is more ahead of time and has been one of the things I have accepted but has been criticized by others who disagree with such practices by it requiring too much cooperation with the legislatures and administrations. There are two different schools. I know that during the next few months, the Ministry of finance is planning to review the experience of government funds law during the first two years. I think it's very valuable because I'm meeting with members of the council and the Committee to Presidency on Monday for the coming and other matters. I hope so. Class presidents have heard of the meeting - but apparently they have not heard of it, so there is news here. But I would like to discuss the increase in the presence of the Generals to decide whether these laws should be considered in view of the arrival of the Council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u63	It's good to hear that this is about the arrival of the Generals regarding the change in law and so on, it's way too late. What I call after is that we can just, like people who are interested in improving these things, have the conversation sooner, so that when I go to the management and monitoring committee and on the Presidency Committee, we have a real business discussion about how to fix these things, not that they say, "Yes, it's not possible, there's a framework of a financial plan that's been put in place around things. Now we have a financial program, but have we already negotiated too much in advance so that it cannot be changed? This is the problem. I want to know where I stand in this regard because my job is a little like water, I come to some resistance, and then the water rises and always finds some way. I'm now, for example. checked because something else did not work in the council, and that case will be taken up by April 20, raises by members of Congress. I'll always find my way. It would be great if the prime minister was really interested in talking to his people, that we could have a conversation about the dynamics of the Alleglans and implementing the role and legal role we have here, that we could have that conversation ahead of us and during the conversation so that we could find solutions. When it comes to this, there's no politics in me. We all agree that this function should be in place. What I don't want to do is get into a committee and have to have a conversation with other members of the committee who have been given orders or at least that they have some sort of orders not to move things, etc. I need to talk through them to talk to the highest level. Prime Minister or Can I Have a Direct Conversation? I get on a prime committee, and they say, "It may not be good to bring in the crew because there is no money. That's what we're going through. It's said that it's not good to have too many inquiries, it costs so much. [[The president calls.]] We cannot be told that we cannot do our part because there is no money. I don't want to be framed, I want to be able to have the conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u64	Mr. President. It is my opinion that the World Council Committee shall make its recommendations, and, of course, it is best if members of the Council's Presidency Committee shall agree on how the Council's Presidency Committee, for the benefit of the rest of us sitting here as members of the Parliament, would like to arrange for a financial plan when it comes to calling in the executioners or other members of the General Assembly. I have often wondered, whether I am in a government or government, when the General calls for a report from the European Commission whether the General should decide for himself to file a report and consult a specialist to report something that the Council itself wants to establish. We know it from the councils around us, perhaps more from certain committees. I'm reminded that in the British Parliament, we will tell the State Department there: We are going to set up these matters, not asking the minister of his matters, which, of course, he also makes clear in his reports, but decides that she is going to look at something specifically, and that she has room for the budget of each year to go on such a project. If the People agree on that, I think it's easy for the Council to just decide. I kind of think it's a reason. A senator is asking if we are allowed as a body of elders to change the financial program when it comes to the work of the Generals. Of course. I feel that the General needs to take some of this discussion into his mind about what we want to stress. Do we want to emphasize that the committees have some increased job independence? This is where we usually agree to our reporting requests. The administration authority returns reports. Are we happy with that work ethic? Sometimes it is necessary because there is a particular project and something that is responsible for the Commission, but wouldn't we also want a Senate committee to say, "Hey, we're going to get this one, and he's going to work for us for six months to do this? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u65	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a financial program, the first one as a government officer. The prime minister of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, suggests. I wish to the highest. Minister to congratulations on that. This document highlights the main focus and policy at the highest level. Governments. It is satisfying and, in fact, natural to emphasize that society benefits from existing economic growth and its policy on social stability and the future changes in quality of life. I welcome this emphasis, for it's here a handsome act of appeals to the need for investment in the face of strict spending. This is certainly an increase in expenses in many areas, and it is intended to protect them on important social infrastructures. This does not allow time to list all aspects, but I would like to mention factors such as increased donations for innovation, research and knowledge, markets, with a more intensive coherence, transport and communications strategy, which are the basis for the well-being of the country, and actually the need to run here a powerful community, tourism, environment, culture and art, sports and youth, high school, university, hospital service, medical services outside hospitals, nursing and recovery services, medicine and medical care, the affairs of disabled people, management departments, elderly families, housing and human health. V.E.G. President. Here in this hall, the criticism has either been that there is too much extra expenses or that there is not enough to be done. In this hall, we heard yesterday even talking about pet projects. It looks natural to whom. But the projects are good, and the inside structure has been called on. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Prime Minister: What is her view of this emphasis? Governments, as well as the amendment that everyone gains the benefits of the present economy and that this will change the quality of life for the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who, in effect, asks about the emphasis, what is even the most important. Of course, it is always very difficult to answer such questions, but I would like to say, as I did in my speech, that health matters have been the priority of voters and most classes at the General Assembly for the past few years. I don't think there's any leaning when I say that health care is the most important thing when it comes to government spending. However, this is not to say that health matters will be solved solely with increased resources. I mentioned earlier that there are certain political emphasis on the programme which particularly concerned the patient's expense. I'd like to use this opportunity to mention groups of lawsuits that have been very prominent in the discussion, i.e. the health care status of our first health - care providers and that they are being handled more widely in our health - care system. I think it's extremely important that we finish work at health policy. We've talked a lot about it here at the council, all classes, that a policy needs to be set so that we set our priorities correctly because it's the sort of thing that makes it possible to add a long time. We need a clear view of our priorities. Then I'd like to say, because of what. A senator mentioned research and so forth, that it is designed to improve the university that I consider very important. We've been behind other OECD nations to form. I hope that we can now cooperate with OECD next year to actually evaluate these financial contributions to the university level compared to the OECD average and whether we have comparable numbers, because we lack data. But then, and I might get to that in a second answer, it's the innovation and the vision in the things I think are very important to society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u67	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Prime Minister, the answers. I agree with her about the importance of health care. But I especially want to make transport and communications a subject for my conversation here in the second speech. The Treaty clearly explains the need for building up roads and other transports, both by new construction and by maintenance. We know that the road system is the basis for a whole country's construction and intensive employment. If there is no road system, there will be collapse, not evolution, insulation, not movement. It is, therefore, a pleasure to see that you are being severely spited in and that the plan shows that you can take on a major road operation that has been under control. These include a double Southland road, a Western road through Kjalarnes, finishing double Svejanes Way, a Animal Straitroad, a road around the city's coast, and finishing the Way of Fallos, to name just a few. Then I'd like to be happy to know that Iceland's project is being followed by a light-related process. In confirmation of this, the recognition of the International Sequence Association can be identified for the success of communication. The prize is the confirmation that we are on the right track and are organized into exemplary communities that have solid and good infrastructures where education and access to the Internet are one of the cornerstones. V.E.G. President. I think it's important to keep this up, because we're certainly on the right way to building a strong international community. A sign of this is the growing population of the country for the first time in a long period of time so that evolution seems to be turning around. I agree with those who consider this one of the most powerful building projects of the year. By means of good transportation and powerful communication, we are actually able to talk about equality to the residence. V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on her vision of a future stronger earth wide and what will help her to ensure continued positive reversal and how to follow him.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u68	Mr. President. I'm so concerned I can't go through everything here, but I'm just a little short on the new-born thing. In a financial program, a policy is made that land - to - land income money will be used in a so - called national fund. There's something that has been discussed among the presidents of the earlier Council, and I hope that we will have a conversation about it again soon and that will be specifically considered to use a part of that money for innovation. Why is this important? Yes, I think an investment in innovation and knowledge is one of the most important things a community like ours can make, relatively small society that builds its valuables on resources. It's a valuable creation that we need to increase. And in order to do that, we need to consider the foundation I mentioned earlier in college, but also an investment in innovation. Of course, in terms of community, transportation, and communication, this situation is most driving. We have a tremendous increase in country's pressures with the two million tourists around the country today, but we also see changes in practices that naturally depend on a secure communication relationship. There I am witnessing to the tourism agency, perhaps a different way of life, but we've been getting used to it so that these are very many companies, including 2,300 companies working in tourism. They're scattered all over the country. These are small companies, not many who work there, but fully rely on it to remain in a constant relationship. Therefore, I say, communication and communication. That is why we are doing this work in transport between 2019, 2020, and 2021, and we use property revenues from financial companies because these are, of course, the basis for people to live all over the country, that we can say that people can choose farms, that young people can choose farms. These are the two factors that matter the most because I now believe in people that they will find their own chance when the interiors are all right.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on microcirculture matters. It is the policy of this government to establish a workforce. The budget bill expects 4 billion in that category. This is just one third of what is needed. That is why I ask: Should I do this in three years? Or is the purpose of having an automaton to take the disability, rehabilitate them, and place them on a street without a job? We must first secure part - time jobs and other things before we go to the job assessment. There's some error in the account. It's a matter of reducing the tax percentage by 1%. That is 14 billion, plus 6 billion bank tax, that is 20 billion dollars. to be used for this reduction. These 20 billion would take out all the damages in the system, this chain-mortem declines all over the system, and would simplify the system to a large extent. There's another thing about this that I'm not comfortable with, and I understand, too, it's that feedback, because it's now been 16 months since older civilians and poor people got 25,000 credits. From a pension fund plus a dollar across from a canal. In human language, it means that today about 450,000 people are owed today - a minimum of 450,000, a minimum of 450,000. Are you going to make the difference? Or is this a game to put it out of the reach of the poor because the older cities have already got it? Why don't the cripples get him?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording these matters because they are urgent. Hv. A senator witnesses to ancient history, we can say, i.e. when the social security system was changed in 2016 and had been working on that change for quite a few years. They were criticized even. by my time, but the conclusion was that they reached only older citizens. It was criticized that dresser compensation was used primarily for those who lived alone but not for those who lived alone. But the conclusion was this. She gave up the older citizens, brought in a substantial increase in money. We have to admit, although I wasn't in the government then, that there were significant improvements and additional expenses in the case of an older citizen. Because of what? I find it important to recall that an older citizen's income market was raised to 100,000 dollars. At the end of the year, but I have also been approached by an older citizen's organization, requesting that the changes made in the social security system of 2016 be assessed specifically for how they would get out of business groups. So it is to do that work under the highest leadership. Social Affairs Minister to evaluate these changes and whether they have benefited from especially lifting the income of an older citizen. Then I'd like to say about micro-energy pensioners, and I mentioned it earlier, that there is expected to be a significant increase, at least 4 million in these reforms, and some 2 billion added to what we have called biological evolution, i.e. due to increased scarring. A continuing increase during the planned period is then expected. If I quote the text, the team of reforms is specifically said to provide a piece of bread with a so-called dollar against a cut, but as soon as you look for a workout. Because of what? A senator specifically asks if we are specifically talking about cutting people down without actually having a job, it's not how I picture them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We've thought more about it, so we're looking for more social participation, not to force people to do jobs or even unemployment, just so they're totally clear. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u71	The president has to ask the highest. Minister to keep track of deadlines. The day is long, and ministers must stay within the deadlines as others do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u72	Excuse me. That's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. It's not that simple. I was on this staff assessment committee. I know what this is all about, and I know what was on the table. We were against it, we and the left green, and more were against it. What I'm afraid of is that you're going to dust off these old ideas and start doing the same things. I hope so much and fervently that it will not be done. Then there is something of the highest magnitude. Prime Minister spoke of, i.e. to reduce the health care costs. I always get the creeps when you're being detracted. One dollar may be reduced. Why don't we do this right now, so that those who have so little in society will enjoy it? I know about people who can't afford to see a doctor. I know about people who can't afford to buy drugs. It's scary. That's not supposed to happen. These people are supposed to get this free. We're supposed to make sure of that. Then there's something else I want to talk about, i.e. that you get hit a wall when you talk to a health minister and a social minister about the Power of Conspiracy. It's a matter of life and death. They're people who are seriously ill. I say for my part, we have to make sure that the building of what has been built, the Power of Mind and Mental Health, will not be disturbed. We have to make sure of that. It doesn't matter what we're going to build a team around it, that's not to tear down another good thing. It would be like if we were going to build a new hospital on Ring Road, and because he was so good, we immediately began to tear down the hospital in Fos Cove. That's not what we do. This is especially true of people who are unable to defend themselves. We're talking about sick people. They should not have to fight for their right to exist because they have found a way to survive.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u74	Mr. President. I just want to take this opportunity to finish what I wasn't here. I'm coming to the line on the micro-energy pensioners later. Hv. A senator mentioned earlier that there was an estimated amount of money to reduce taxes. As clearly stated in the programme, financial programmes are expected to allow a reduction in taxes of one percent in the income tax system. If there's a way out that I used to have a place of words earlier, I'll tell you why. Councilmen and are discussed in financial matters in particular, i.e. If you look at the character discount, it will be useful to a group of people. A senator is talking about, the busiest person in the community. We look for ways to benefit primarily from tax relief. Hv. A senator asks about the ideas that were not at the time in relation to the performance assessment. Of course, that's why what we agreed on at the 2016 Congress was only on older citizens, i.e. because there was no room for a change in performance assessments that were on the board of the then active committee. That's why we're about to start a new conversation with the presidents of the Quantum Community and Maturity because they're not supposed to make such changes no matter what people say. It's not like that at all. I can assure you what. A senator says it doesn't exist. However, it is, and I think that it must be our common objective, that it is important to expand our social activities. It is important to ensure that those in part of disability who can work in part, the possibility that if there is part - time work, they will be able to do so. This is specifically discussed in a government covenant. True, we have a higher proportion of part - work in this country than in most other parts of the North countries, but there is something we need to consider, how we act, the public, and the general market, that we can see to it that there is an offer for those who are able and who wish to do so. [[The president calls.]] But the reason we are going back to this discussion is that we did not meet up with one another. Such changes will only be made in agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u75	V.E.G. President. The budget of every government is a fundamental piece of work. That's what it said. Within one year, the prime minister and then a member of the Parliament gave a talk. Then I'm listening here at the highest. A minister responds to members of the Parliament and begins discussing the importance of ensuring the funding of assistant ministers. All right. I get it. It's been inserted. But there is no mention in the financial program how to promote the council itself, financial support for the council as its entire environment. One way we heard it was in the talk was by the highest power. Last year the prime minister missed that the council was not being promoted and strengthened, especially when discussing projects and issues related to financial planning. We also hear how members of the Independence Party deal with their direct inquiries. When it is requested that the execution of its authority be prepared to submit a report to the council, the role of the council is being respected. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What political vision, because I don't see the political specimen for promoting the financial agenda, will she apply himself now when the council's plan comes up, so that the council will be actually fortified, not just talking about furthering the project? I'd like to hear it from the Minister how to support the Senate's role of surveillance. To be honest, I'm surprised to hear the voices that come especially from the Independence Party, which are minimized by members of the Parliament, when a request to the government is taken down. How will a minister himself listen to his own criticism for not a year ago about the urgent need to promote the council? I'd love to hear it from the highest. A minister of what she will do in promoting the council? Not just talking.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think it is our common interest to promote the council. It's certainly not only spoken, for immediately last funds were added to members of Congress, which are important and also a contribution to support the legal, financial, and surveillance role of the General, with support for committees and members of Congress. It came into the last law of the law. An increase since 2019 is expected in terms of the rise in contributions to council. The situation was established that even members of Congress did not manage to recruit. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator agrees with me that it is important for us to expect this in our financial plans and budgets, how we can better prepare for the assembly. There are some improvements, outside of the long - awaited construction of the General Building. Actually, I think it was also important for members of Congress to gather them into one building. Although it is never popular to speak for buildings, especially when it comes to the General Assembly, I think it is a long time - long timely recovery for members of Congress who even have to move from office to office. In fact, circumstances that have been unacceptable in recent years have even been dealing with molds in their office housing, so that a person is referring to them. The growth of the council is not just an increase in financial contributions. A senator knows women best. It's also about work. It must not be minimized. Right away. A senator says that the highest. The prime minister just talks and does nothing: I don't agree that it's the right approach to what I've been doing. I have established that this is a much more cross-coordinated partnership than we have previously seen, whether in the field of Constitution, where I sit myself at the table, or in other cases where we have called upon the coming of the council; that they have named their people to make important decisions that do not come here as routine members until much later. [[The president calls.]] I think we should work more like that. I agree with what. You see, a senator, it's not just about talking, but it must also look to what is being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u77	Mr. President. That's exactly what I want to direct to the highest. Prime Minister, how men make their words. I am directing this criticism, not to a prime minister alone, but to a prime minister at the end of the government board and to control the development of the conversation. I am deeply concerned about how the independent party is associating with the authority of this Assembly Hall, how we feel at the stand of government. When we make inquiries and file requests, this surveillance role is minimized. I'd like to encourage the highest. The prime minister to sharpen his colleagues in the government in order to respect the council. I know she does, but she needs to get more people on her side as far as that matters. Talk about the government. It is as many times as a compromise government has shown. All right. But once we've taken all the packaging from the government, this dangerous combination is presented that we see about the financial program as such. V.E.G. At the time, a minister called for transparency. The level of transparency has not increased with this financial program. Has she not listened to her own criticisms since last year? We see this roundabout about how much travel is going to go: one day we'll just meet all our wishes, so suddenly we'll light up for the highest. Transporter, you can't do that. What, then, is to be done? How should this be financed? That's a lot of opacity. I'm most impressed with the fact that all politicians, like the highest political guidance, are missing. A health minister said: "The woman, socialist at the table pass, sits there, but what is her political direction when it comes to the women's classes? Where other than a cold hello from the health minister? How will the government take the women class, so that we can bring them lasting benefits? There I wish for political leadership and guidance from the government, especially because it is the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who sits there. There is a cry in the document on a financial program that no clear guidance on women's classes is being given, let alone the tax issues. [[The president calls.]] That is the subject of much longer discussion. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u78	Mr. President. Hv. A senator calls for political guidance when it comes to the council. Hv. A senator should look to what is done, not just repeat a case saying that there is only talk here and nothing done. I reviewed how it is to try to promote a cross - back interview here, although, unfortunately, they did not all start out, including the fact that the government has not named its representatives on the committee, as it has been, to form a matter of foreigners, which took a long time to wait for claims from the government position. I wondered, " We don't work better together here at the council unless it's available for all classes. ' Sitting in a position of government and pointing to prime minister, the Council and I are the 63 of the Council who are sitting here together. It is our responsibility to share in the rightness of the hand and ask for more cross-cutting cooperation. I would've thought what. A senator would love to. I respect the conduct of the council every day. Here is a question answered, a special discussion and what it is. I just think it's normal. I like it here at the council. All I miss being a minister is that I can't be more at the council. Because I think Congress is the most important institution in the country. Here's the real discussion. Hv. A senator begins to talk about the lack of political guidance in a financial program. No political guidance?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u79	None.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u80	This is what has just been the big case in the last election, a lack of social structure, after we have gained economic benefits. That's what we've been discussing here before the last election. I understand why. Residents are only sour, their financial plan certainly did not reflect great concern or attendance at these social infrastructures. It's okay. Let's just get it out here. But speaking of not political guidance is, of course, absolute... I'm just saying, there's no meaning in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u81	Where's the capital money?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u82	Mr. President. Budget plan is a vision of the future of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and left of green, as the plan goes for five years. So the plan raises a lot of questions. Why don't left greens put an extra penny in baby reforms and interest improvements for the next five years? Why do left greens want to put almost the same dollar number in high school for the next five years? Why would left green put twice as much money in the build-up as is now being done? Why would Left Green want to put only one third of what had been promised to the university? Why would you want a left green income tax deficiency that gives the senator three times more reduction than what the teacher receives? Why would you want a left green tax reduction of 6 billion dollars? - First priority? Why do the left green only ensures contributions to the elderly and disability that are mostly equivalent to the growing number of these groups? Why does the left green have to do with a financial plan that Iceland's Institute of Destiny called for poverty and misery? Why do the left green directly want to reduce contributions to culture, art, sports, and youth for the next five years? Despite the word of prime minister several months ago, why is the combination drawn together for the next five years? Why are we faced with a cumulative problem and a potential strike of one of the most important women in the country, midwives, on the watch of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and left greener? Mr. President. Why is left green in this government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very political speech. Hv. A senator raised several questions, so it will be difficult to answer them all. Let's start with micro-energy pensioners. Hv. A senator refers to the response of Iceland's Environment Association to the plan. I've also studied the response of Iceland's Environment Association to the last financial programme. They were considerably more efficient, although they were actually expected to be less money for the forwarding of a donor in disability. I think that people just have to look at the facts and the figures presented here, but don't quote the fact that this is the subject of poverty and misery, as if it's actually being declared cut down on disability donations when the fact is that there's an increase of 6 billion in the next year. Let's take that as a shot. A senator says about a loss of income tax, which will give it back and this, like the dog. A senator put it that way. Here I've been over several times that, in the underlying terms of this strategy, tax reductions as a student are expected, or equivalent to, as it is said, a very clear 1 percentage level of revenue taxation. It then reviews the ways in which to make sure that such a tax reduction would be most beneficial to the earner. I've been talking about the character discount. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Do I disagree that it is good for us to talk at a body meeting to examine these methods and to consider whether they reach the goals we want to achieve, as well as to interact with the improving system? Does he not agree that we are going to take this discussion, not only with the labour market parties, but also here at the General, so that we can create an added reconciliation about the tax system? Or wants some. A senator sees a different kind of work? I also lead to the university. Hv. A senator had a lot of words here, but we see a much greater increase in university levels, which I am very proud of having served as a government minister who had to cut down to these important institutions. We're watching that college is finally on its way to where it belongs in our budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u84	Mr. President. The Treaty clearly states that you are going to achieve the OECD average by 2020. That's 6.7 billion. You're going to put over 2 billion to 2023. That promise is a betrayal. The university gets one-third of what you promised. It's good to have a conversation about the improvement system, but you've already put a roof on baby benefits and compensations. You can't put a penny more in child reforms and future growths according to the plan. This is clearly stated in the plan: A 1 percent reduction in income tax is expected. The government assumes a flat decline. [[Up front.]] No, on page 18. 15 states clearly that you're going to lower the income tax by 1 percent. This will benefit the high-payers three times more than the underpayers. This is what we in the United States and the government are critical of. This isn't in the spirit of the left green, because the effect of the left green is no matter what the plan is, let alone the tax political. At the beginning of the minister's reply, it was said that a phrase should not be used in this discussion. The frog I referred to was simply the criticism of Iceland's Quantum Coalition. The very fact that this plan is a prelude to poverty and misery has been used in exactly these words. And how sad!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u85	Mr. President. Then I don't agree that this plan will lead to poverty and misery. I don't know why. A senator agrees with that assessment. He must look at what is indicated here for the simple reform system, for the removal of a dollar to a dollar and a considerable increase in money to this system. I think it would serve the discussion quite well if we looked at what is supposed to be done and the funds that are put into it. That's just what I was saying back there. Since we are now involved in a unique financial program, I would like to point it out. A senator on page 18. Fifty-nine that specifically discuss the progress on the income tax system. Hv. A senator says it's nice to have a conversation, and I think it's very important. People enjoy reviewing old talks, and I would like to have a chance to recall some of the old speeches. A senator who is here with me in the hall but who does not intend to use my time for it. What I said before the election was that it's time, after all the tax changes we've gone through, that we look only at how we can make more peace about Icelandic tax systems. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think it's cool to hear people call out for the decisions they make most of the money when we should be looking for a different job. [[The president calls.]] I would have thought a senator rejoiced.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for her speech and the answers here. It is very strange, however, to sit in this hall and see the prime minister become more frustrated and frustrated as the discussion passes. Prime Minister should simply be answering questions from members of Congress and defending this hopeless financial program. Instead, a minister stands up and casts shame on members of the council because of their questions. Clearly irritated at the fact that some sensitive nerves are being touched. Something's probably starting to fall on the halo at the government of champagne and hedge funds. I mentioned a hedge fund. Although it has caused the hairs of the prime minister to rise up here today, it is so true that this fine, champagne government has been completely exposed to those who make the most of it in Iceland. This can be seen in the measures required to reduce or destabilize this bank tax. It's being dropped by 60%. I'm asking the highest. Minister: If not, it would have been easier to use the amount of space next to the bank tax to drop, e.g. down a penny to a dollar of disability? That's a similar number. Why is this not just done? I must also put a little in the top. Minister. I think the Minister is bluffing. I'm going to use the word deception when she comes up here and tells you that 6 of you. Billions go to disability and talk like it's in order to improve the cost... 6 billion, that's right, that's right, I'm sorry, you're 6th. There are billions of others in increasing disability improvements. [[Up front.]] You might understand a minister like that. But it's not like that. It is about 6 billion to meet the growth of disability. So I ask the highest. Minister: Would it not be easier to handle these benefits, to increase the scope of what the desperate desire? Isn't that right what I say, chief? Ministers, that these 6 billion are just to meet the growth of disability? I'm asking the highest. Minister also about what came out last night, good if it wasn't a reason. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir who said that there was some good evidence and security for the financial cost of consumers to reduce if the bank tax was reduced as this sensitivity. Does any prime minister have a guarantee that the bank tax will be reduced by the financial cost of the people in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u87	Mr. President. I'm going to start with a little comfort. A senator telling him I'm in a good mood. Hv. A senator must accept that this is answered when misinformed in a talk chair. I don't know that it's any kind of irritability, but I like having this discussion very much. I believe this is a good financial plan that we can be quite satisfied with, the government that is now, even though I have said in the beginning that there is no political document that solves all the problems of human life. It's not like that. Right away. A senator comes up here talking about a champagne government government... and I don't think the hedge fund is a big part of that discussion. And what? A senator comes up here and says: "It is not that the 6 billion should be dressered for disability. It says here that this is a split point. Hv. A senator can't afford to accuse me of deception after repeated comments in this discussion. A senator has been living under 4 billion in dresser reforms, but part of the 6 billion are designed to deal with demographic development. This has been mentioned twice during the discussion. And I don't like it, Mr. President, already. A senator accuses me of deception. Hv. A member of the council may call his answer to and his excellent member of the Central Class, but that's why we're here, isn't it? It is to communicate, answer questions, but also answer the criticism that we may not consider objectively, as in that case. When it came to the bank tax, there was a problem. A senator joined in as a minister of the government to raise it and announced that it would be temporary. It was promised. We all remember it when the government was. A senator announced that this was for four years, in order to finance the debt I mentioned earlier. I wonder why. A senator whether it was a mistake at the time of the time. Government to announce that this tax would be temporary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u88	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this strange speech. Fortunately, you only have one minute now, because if you did, the minister would certainly be even more frustrated. I'm going to quote words that fell here at a council yesterday when things happened. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, president of a council of the left green, was in his speech, and answered with a sharp answer. Ólafur The countless Ísleifsson, who delivered a tremendous speech last night on a financial program. That's what it says. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen in her introduction after she begins a talk: We decided to put aside some disagreements and to try to build a welfare community. That was, in effect, the answer to that question. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson asked about the interest of older citizens and why was it not possible to raise the personal discount? So I must ask the highest. Minister: Is it not part of building the welfare community to let money and compensation go to the elderly and desperate by making use of e.g. in the character discount? Is the minister willing to agree that this was given up in the government interview, as could be understood? A senator yesterday? [[Up front.]] I'm asking the highest. The minister of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u89	Mr. President. I'm starting to worry about what I'm doing. A senator sees something irritated, even by listening to him here on a speaker's chair. I wondered how upbuilding this discussion is, all of which are about making some valid judgments about the mood of their fellow members. I'm just asking, what? Senator: Are we on the right track? Hv. A senator asks if the change in personality discount was thrown off the table. I've said a lot of things here -- I've liked it if the subject of this financial program is so good that I'm always asked the same questions, suggesting that there are fewer opinions than that. According to the box I studied earlier in the financial program, it is considered to look at the ideas that have been raised to see if the personal discount can become progressive and at certain boundaries even become expansive and then decrease as the income increases. In this way we will reach the goals we would like to achieve in the equal role of the tax system and take advantage of the funds we are planning on making tax reductions in order to do so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But that is not the case. That's what I've said many times, and it's being announced in the interview ahead of you about changing the income tax system.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u90	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss probably the most difficult task that this government is facing, which is likely to be the most challenging of all, which is a conflict in the labour market. The budget as it has been proposed by the government, as it will be changed in the council, and as it will be approved, the budget will be framed or what the government can set up in lawsuits when it comes to budgeting in the fall. The way we achieve this financial program at the council is to make sure that we are able to deal with the uncertainty we face. The uncertainty may include that midwives go to strike. A number of other classes of 2015 were passed on by law. The prime minister, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, voted against it if I recall correctly, and correctly. I don't remember how many classes they were, but I know how much it cost, at least. About the nurses who were given the law at the time. It would have cost 4 billion to negotiate with them, as was done with doctors to make them acceptable to their status. It took 4 billion to negotiate with doctors in the past. One half of the values would have cost 4 billion, it would have cost 4 billion to get nurses in the same place. Then other classes were in there too. There was space then. We need to make sure that there is room now. We know that our health - care providers, nurses, and midwives have quit and started working elsewhere, including with airlines, instead of using their education for the purpose that they have decided to devote their lives otherwise, they have been unable to do otherwise. This is a serious situation. This is probably the hardest thing the prime minister is going to face. The question I would like to give a prime minister an opportunity to answer is, How do we make sure that in this financial program there is room for us to respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u91	Mr. President. Thank you for this important inquiry. This is one of the biggest projects that not only we face as politicians in this country but that of society all the same as the economy. Work market swellings. At the same time, governments have taken certain measures. There has been a lot of active communication with the labor movement in the past few months. I hope that ASI will be a member of a national body like unions in public markets have decided to do. It will discuss together economic stability and social stability as required by the labor movement. Then there are factors and, in turn, some factors. A senator might look especially at the health class as I understood it in his inquiry - we are facing it now, as it were. A senator says. [[Let's face it now.]] A specific statement has been made in connection with the agreement made to BHM earlier this year to be attacked by special health care professionals, but also to have a diagnostic procedure - the Minister of Health is up to this point and may consider this - the human needs of the health care system. Among the things that have now been most impulsed by health care providers to negotiate the state's Committee are the working conditions, the care needs, and the future because we see that the situation varies greatly between different health groups. Now we'll see if we're up to the needs of the system. This job is about to start. What is the scope of this program? Hv. A member speaks specifically of the health class, and I mentioned here that there must be priorities for the health system that must be good, not only for the whole community but also for those who work within it. Hv. Senators have been asking about the women's classes specifically, and of course they are very large within the medical system. We need to look at this in the context of the fact that by improving our working circumstances and the quality of our health system, we also look at the benefits of the women working there. I might even get closer to the workforce in my second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u92	Mr. President. Just like when I spoke earlier about the patrol work that I have a certain obligation to do for my seat on the board and on the board of directors, and now I don't want to be framed by this financial program in a way that I can't do my job. One of the most important projects. At present, the prime minister is making peace in a job market. Therefore, I would like to give the prime minister the opportunity to get the answers that this financial plan does not bring us into line with the fact that we can't deal with widespread controversy in a labour market, that can't be said later: Yes, no, there's no way to do this because there's something written, and then there's a financial plan and budget, etc., no, no, there's nothing to do about it, there's no way. The vector must be present. I'm not going to stand up here if there's a law on strike this year, next year, or in this future that we're facing, saying to me, "There's some sort of budget going on at the General Assembly and a financial plan that frames this up and puts us in a straitjacket." [[The president calls.]] There has to be room.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u93	Mr. President. Of course, a financial plan is just a document based on the best available information at any given time, the plans of governments at any given time, into the future, and then it is just a work of men. The general body of government under the Constitution is always in my opinion of space to respond. I think that's what we're talking about. Generals should not agree with the opinion you sometimes hear, that when something has been adopted in a financial program, it is almost unchanging, like some natural law code. [[Up front.]] That's not the way it is. We have a democratic system, we have a capital authority at the General Assembly, and of course the General will have the opportunity to deal with circumstances that may arise. On the labour market in general, I'd like to say that we need to head for a longer time to establish a clearer workforce. Hv. A senator spoke to create laws on strikes that were very common during the July 20133/42016 season. We need to start looking for ways to get more settled about the workforce, looking more toward the northern countries, how they work there. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of work to do, but it's simple things like how we handle business with the state's union office there. There's something I think we could be exemplary.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u94	Mr. President. It's like the highest. At the beginning of her talk, the prime minister claimed to know who I would cut. I'm not going to disappoint her there, but I may come a little bit from an unexpected direction. [[Up front.]] I've mentioned it once or twice in this pit that I'm worried about the expansion of the state fund and whether there's a set-up for the spending capital that's being given here. I know it's the highest. About a year ago, my prime minister was concerned with me when there was a national financial policy at the time of the government. It's interesting to compare these two policies. There's been a lot of talk here, we can say, how much has been spit on. We were also quite proud of that national budget program, and we thought we were doing a great deal of financial expansion, both in health and in the welfare of our health. There's exactly the same budget focus here, and I'm glad to see it. However, there were considerably better economic leaders back then. We thought we had a possible reason for this, but we had a few criticisms that it might be unrealistic, that we wouldn't be able to afford those expenses. When we compare these two plans together at the end of 2022, the budget set out here for the total budget of 972 billion, compared to 959 billion for the previous government. This is an increase of 13 billion. Of these, there are 4 billion higher interest, because this government is going to pay off debt slower than the previous one, and the rest is 7 billion weaknesses that were discovered in the expenses of disability and drug purchases and had to take on financial extras last year, it seems there is a difference between 2 billion. That's all there is to it. The difference, however, is that we are here a year later with weaker economic leaders, weaker economic adults, to cover these massive expenses. [[The president calls.]] However, the prime minister, who was concerned that we could not afford this at that time, presents a very comparable plan now in terms of less economic conditions, and he adds a further drop of 25 to 30 billion tax. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking, "What's the worry about the economic leaders of this program now? "
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for coming in on this. That's where I think we have an opportunity to reduce economic growth. I believe the public has the opportunity to bring in an injection to create transportation and other business ventures, to use income from the financial system, as I also proclaimed to be important to the election, thus establishing what I want to call the balance between paying off debt and building up. Indeed, it is important to pay off debt and have been paid down quickly and safely over the past few years and continue to go down the entire period of this financial program. At the same time, though, we must not forget that we cannot allow the infrastructure to rot. When we examine the difference between these financial programmes, to form when it comes to transportation, the first thing. A senator, in comparison, is making significant improvements in transport, but I think we must agree that there must be some economic evidence that we guarantee that the interiors are under the name, that we do not give our property, so I put this over on accounting, demeaning while we are too busy paying off debt. It is, in fact, the simple economic question that must come up when we are in paying off debt, which was a big deal in the last financial program, and we need to be careful about what we own. Of course, it's the interiors that are our property. Hv. A senator talks about the tax issues. I listened to what I heard. A senator last night who spoke of us giving up our authority on tax matters and giving the keys to the labour market. I'm going to allow myself to disagree completely. The last financial program certainly presented a huge tax change, a reduction in value tax taxes, and a move to the top level of the valuable tax system. This was done entirely without complete consultation with the article. What I criticized was that the change, and it appeared in my case then, was made, or proposed, because it was not made naturally, without adequate analysis of how this would affect this largest export of the country. [[The president calls.]] What I'm simply saying here is that we just need to work different. I would've thought what. Senators of this new category would agree very much with me about changing the practice in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u96	President. This is a short period of time, but it is absolutely true that we would like to have a good consultation with the labour market involved in changing taxes. However, it seems to me that the government has no independent opinion of tax change or tax policy and that it is contrary to waiting for messages from the labour market on which tax change should take place. The government may not agree on them and therefore have decided to assign this workforce to the labour market partners. There's certainly a chance. I would have liked to have a much better consultation right from the start with the smaller parts, because I think that the lack of roots described in the tax system is not because of lack of communication with the labour market but because there is no adequate consultation between the majority and the smaller parts of the tax Catholic community at any time. Maybe that's where the biggest problem is. But it seems to me that, after all, left greens has got 2 billion more into a government budget by the end of 2020, against swallowing the tax Catholic Independence Party to reduce taxes to this by 25 to 30 billion. [[The president calls.]] I think that's a little low.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u97	Mr. President. I think there's a why. Senator, if I start with the last thing he came to, comparing apples and oranges. Here he compares the total cost at the end of the period, not taking into account the box on expenses and the investments being announced here, although in some respects it is comparable, as I refer to a new land hospital, which most of us would agree on. Of course, there is a big difference between what is here to make an investment, so I witness on transportation. I think it's the comparison -- but we're talking about framed expenses, yes, but I'm talking about the straddling expenses when we compare these different budgets. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] But then, because of what. There's a senator talking about outlining projects, so I'll testify to what they're doing. Senator, I just think it's cheap. I just think it's cheap when we're back from a period of time, since we've been attacking countless tax changes. A senator has now criticized, especially in his former work, just as he did when speaking. On the other hand, I'm going to take it into account as a dog. According to one U.S. senator, there may be a lack of communication with the General Assembly as a whole and with the smaller section. [[The president calls.]] Then I think there's something we're supposed to do. We are to call for more consultations in committees. I'll just take it on, make it better. I don't think it's about "extreme" here. I think it's about a change of attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u98	Mr. President. First, I want to thank the prime minister for her contribution here and all the answers she has made. In our time, one of the biggest cases we can see is the right cause of those who will pay attention to their feet in Icelandic society. As a matter of fact, I think it's a very strong agreement and a great understanding of it. However, this budget is extremely practical in this regard. It contains like two dimensions, with permission to say. It's some kind of a future. For a picture, see page 12. 5,7958 is toying out how the tax system could look and get better out for inferior people, e.g. to go as well as to the course of personal recovery and so on, and to improve the quality of the economy and of all these connections is discussed in the paper. This is the second dimension. But she's in the future at some point. What we see in our time is clear. It is a declaration to lower the low level of income tax so that it will flow across the entire income scale without benefiting from the lascivious. Bank tax is to be lowered. And with permission to say, underprivileged. Prime Minister, this is when no one gains more than the fine hedge funds mentioned so many times here. It's supposed to, and I hope that I'll be corrected, closed with the courage, and it's to build the Land hospital in an impassable place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. In that respect, it is true that this schedule is not now. As I said earlier, if we're going to talk about now, we need to talk about the budget that became reality for 2018. And because of what? The senator discussed tax changes, but the only tax change there was an increase in capital tax and carbon tax increase. Then, in line with the administration contract carried out by this government, the decrease in income taxes below the level is announced, and at the same time a resolution of how this reduction should look. The nature of the case is this strategy, as it is from 2019. Hv. A senator here quotes the lack of disability as coming immediately, certainly, no more than anything in this program, but I think it is. A senator needs to look forward to it right in the year 2019 of this program. Likewise, we do not have an implementation of how we can make changes in the tax system so that we can make the most of our income - bearing groups. I came to my case earlier that there are ways to do that. I pointed out that the upper and lower limits have different indicators, which are one variable that could be taken into consideration in the preceding discussion. Then I mentioned what's being done to special coverage here, how can the personal discount be used to cope better with income - bearing groups. Of course you're right. A senator that this plan will not solve today's affairs. However, for the next five years, I believe that it will be a specific vision to meet many of the things I know to do. A senator and his party have been pointing to, i.e. How we can cope better with the security of living for all community groups. There we need to look to the inside. Investment to form within the health system is important to the whole community. [[The president calls.]] A lower cost factor for patients is especially important for the income groups, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u100	Thank you very much. The prime minister for the answer that underscores in his own way what I let myself say here, how practically this document is. You can point to the fact that all good things are ahead and that everything will be great. Well, it's gonna have to come out, then, topv. Prime Minister. This will be followed and followed. Of course, it's time here. I noticed that the prime minister did not have time to move on to the supposed decrease in bank tax, which, of course, is a fact. I allow myself to adopt the prime minister's case that seems to have been in favor of two ministers in her government, a case of great importance to those who have considered it, that is a plan for mental health care, called the Power of Mind. I'm now interested in further discussions with the Minister of Health below, but for this reason I mentioned, it's been going through two cabinet ministers in the state of the state of the state. Prime Minister, I'd like to appeal to her as a sort of emergency in this matter, encouraging her to pay attention to this matter and to stop this national agreement from being dropped on their watch. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u101	Mr. President. I'm happy for those words. A senator that the council intends to uphold the government. Of course, it is very important and part of what I'm always talking about that Congress is also taking its own limits in the way it wants to behave. It is the most important part of the council, or one of them, of them, to provide this arrangement. Hv. A senator refers to the bank tax. I have studied him several times in my speech, and I remind you once again that this tax was announced by the then government of the 20133/42016 as a temporary operation to finance a specific operation. We're taking a lot of property out of the financial system to make good use of the public in this country. For example, let us just look at transport. Next time, a white book on the financial system will appear, which I think I know is what. A senator will have much to say about. We need to create this conversation and talk about where we want to go with the financial system. It is not only the European rules that we have already introduced, many of which have been a great benefit to the Icelandic financial system of mine. [[The president calls.]] We also need to look at what remains after the years that have passed since collapse and all the changes that have been made. [[The president calls.]] How do we want to develop the financial system here in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u102	Then the discussion on the case of prime minister is complete. This discussion has taken an hour and 50 minutes, some more than it was anticipated that each group would take. The president must admit that he, after thinking, feels that he has been too tolerant about the fact that humans would likely pass quite a time of public speaking. It will extend very much the day if those on the President will be as relieved as the current president has been. The recommendation by the president is that humans keep in mind that we have limited time and that we respect that limit. That's when we're going to make the greatest litigation. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u103	A respectable president. The increase in health care is one of the priorities of the present government. In fact, I believe it is the emphasis here at the Council, on the contrary, that it is long time to stress the matter. The Icelandic medical system is to deal with what is best in the world. All the people of the country are to enjoy a fine ministry regardless of their economic status. The emphasis on the growth of health care depends on the budget under discussion. In this way, annual donations to health care will be estimated to be 40 billion higher in 1923, according to the annual budget of the year. This is an increase of over 19% in real value. Health contributions will be at the end of the period at about 249 billion dollars. every year. Strain costs, including By building, there will be 101 billion over the period. Then, naturally, we are primarily talking about the construction of a new land hospital on Ring Road, as well as a significant effort in the construction of nursing homes. Certain steps will be taken to reduce patient payment during the financial programme so that patients in this country's health costs will be comparable to those in the North countries. One of the biggest challenges in this period is to make a clear, targeted course of health care. I think it is very important to keep it up during the discussion that it is not only possible to raise contributions to the seminary but also to sharpen the sample on the parts that fall under the jury. For example, a good health - care provider needs to build on clear health policies, which are part of the Community Convention and is about equal access to health care, regardless of the economy or residence of the people. At the same time, public health and preemptive activities need to be discussed in health policy. Of course, their growth is important in improving and maintaining good health, improving quality of life, and reducing the community's direct and indirect costs for the future. It is often seen and proved that money is given in human health and that prevention work is a great help. The design of a global health policy is an essential step toward improving health care for the whole country and ensuring a more reasonable use of the health care system. According to a financial program, it is estimated that the situation for the increased walking-of-the-house services is under way as well as for continuing implementation at the hospital. There will also be an attack on the construction of a new county house at the Akureyri Hospital. The aim is to make good - quality and survival treatment for the West, Northern and Eastern countries more compatible, but is now consistent with the report I received there. It will be emphasised on increasing the number of qualified health professionals living in a good environment, targeted cross-cutting teamwork, which we already see in the system, the opportunity to develop and participate in educational, evolutionary, and scientific activities, the contributions to mental health will be increased, with the aim of making full-time recovery of a mental health care programme. The child-adolescent walking unit will be increasing in accordance with its policies and actions. It will then be carried out in a practical way to increase the number of health - care professionals and to promote them as the first stop, to increase the multidisciplinary teamwork within the medical facility, to be reviewed, and, in fact, to be started. And then there will be a big attendance at the construction of a nurse mentioned here. The increase is about 300 from the budget last year. A total of 790 nursing spaces over the period, 550 new ones, and 240 new ones will be replaced. The number of day - to - day candidates will then be increased and will be aimed at setting up a special nursing department to meet the needs of elderly people who have integrated mental health and addictions. The organized health care of the elderly will be implemented in all HCPs as well as special care at home. The development of electronic registration, electronic communication, and the building of an electronic medical registry on a national scale will be emphasised on continuing development. Electrical communication with patients will be improved, and telecommunications will be enhanced. I can also mention the screening for colon cancer that will begin during the period and will continue to be supported by health - control communities. Public access to necessary drugs, etc. must be improved. A respectable president. I suppose I can find other aspects of a conversation with you. Councilmen, but I would like to mention, finally, that the main challenges of the tribe are changing the population's age, increasing the number of tourists, and caring for the overall health system, which are challenges that we are facing not just in our country but in every part of the countries around us, but one of the challenges that will remain in our assignment in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u104	So that the discussion can be done well today, the president wants to remind us that he is a tolerant president. And, at the same time, for us to keep our time limit, I'm going to give such a light blow to this place where the hammer rests in ten seconds before the speech ends so that a man can finish his speech without reviewing his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u105	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a five - year financial plan in a good time. Yesterday, the highest came. Economic and financial secretary of the programme and assured the United States of Congress that everything was beneath a tangent and that there was no sign of scourages on the horizon. The sky, by the way, is honor and blue. In any case, the years over this government are indeed blue. Health services are one of our most important social projects in a growing society. The urban development continues, the awareness of the inhabitants, knowledge and service increases, and the demands of equality and good availability are loud. Economic planning has positive goals for strengthening and promoting much between the heavens and the earth, even examining and reevaluating. There are many things to make up for today, but with the naked eye, you cannot see with the new mind to cope with changed and challenging times, e.g. increasing proportion of elderly ones, both affecting employment markets and public services. We can remind you that 5% of the people who are 67 years of age or older in our neighboring countries are living in institutions. This is a much higher percentage here for some reason. At least there's 9%. The proportion of elderly 67 years of age and older will reach nearly 20% after more than 20 years, in the year 2040. But this ratio is now 12%. It'll be a powerful group, 76 of you. ... aman. There's got to be an army arrow, or don't you agree with that? Mr. President. The most of the local health institutions are experiencing economic and financial problems as a result of this workaholic problem. Of the many conversations with the rulers around the country, it is not to be heard that they are experiencing reversals with the promotion and emphasis of this government. A new system has been used in the health care of the capital area, called production-related funding. This year the same system will be started at a Hospital. [[The president calls.]] No need for analysis has been performed in connection with these changes, but the system, in some cases, is being used for regular financial management. V.E.G. A minister will correct me if I am wrong. I'll catch up with it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u106	A respectable president. I'm going to stick to the first part of my speech. Senator. Well, I hope we get to the other one here on the second round. Well, first off, it's "woe." A senator after a new thought. I'd especially like to say that I'm worried about what. A senator of the unusual number of elderly people in Iceland is in institutions. I think it's right in so many ways to worry about that. Not only is this a relatively expensive option but it is also because it is not necessarily the quality of life that offers people the best quality of life. One space costs about 13 million a year, but the same amount can be used to ensure health benefits and physical activity for 100 people in that same year and possibly to improve quality of life and the possibility of longer living at home. I agree with what. A senator in it must be careful not to plan to solve everything with buildings or new houses or rooms. Hv. A senator also asks a general question about policy, etc. We need to be very careful to make more use of the money than we are now. One way that we do so is by explaining more about the work done between the Land Hospital and the country's individual health institutions, that there is a clearer understanding of what we would like to do in each of these aspects. Work is now taking place. I have high hopes for it to give us good results, especially in the availability of people, regardless of their location, to expert physicians. I think it is extremely important that we map it and make a joint and democratic decision on how we want to distribute health care in this regard so as to ensure equal access to the part of health care that is involved in specialist medical care, as well as to build up health care at home and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u107	Mr. President. Thank you for your excellent answers. In the years that follow, we face many important challenges. There's no difference. I think Iceland had a bit of a bad political thing, i.e. This so - called institutionalized service. It's like the highest. There are many good solutions for others that are growing up and growing old. What I wanted to do is change the budget, that all medical institutions, including health care in the country, are allowed to live in the same way as the health care department in Reykjavík and this year of the land. I hope that a minister would agree, therefore, with the emphasis the Minister brings on by work at a new health policy. We have strong hopes for that. That is not an easy task. That is a challenge for all of us. As a minister has mentioned, new health policies must survive governments and the category of political differences. I ask a little about the timing of this work, when it can be expected, and I also mention what was reported in Mckinseyr's two-year-old report on how when a person starts putting money back in order to promote health care, that this is being done in a specific way according to definition. We're not that far along yet, but there should be an increase. But I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will this be done systematically and according to a new health policy? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u108	A respectable president. Hv. A senator comes to the very heart of the matter. Of course, it is not simple to say that we need to build a clearer view, a more specific means for money, etc. and plan to fix the current system at the same time. Of course, we can see and have been reasoned with that, and why. A senator well knows that there is a need for more money to operate in individual clinics and inland hospitals under the same conditions. This also applies to the health care of the capital area. I have to say in this objection that I think it must be so, when there is a new health policy, that it will significantly affect the next financial programme, i.e. In any way, the budget that goes to the seminar party is arranged. We have a report from the National Relations Convention on the non-remarkable purchases of health care. But this does not mean that people do not need health care; they may just need to be specific in which direction to go. We need not be afraid to follow that discussion too. If we just open the tap and continue to take money out of the state's budget, we may not be working on the problem of the system as it is right now. Hv. A senator asks only about the changes in health care funding and the aim of moving this payment model across the country. I'll follow it completely after it's important. However, it is also important to make such changes in the model of payment that teamwork, development projects, etc. should be taken into account. Not everything is measurable in a very simple way and reflected in capitalization at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u109	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The financial program here before the General Assembly refers to the taking up of multiple measures to treat mental illness throughout the country. If you continue to look into the plan, you can show that you can be strengthened in the BUGL walking services by 1 billion. Money items include: intended to increase the number of workers with BUGL. I'd like to ask a few questions to the highest level. Healthcare Minister: How are all of the country going to be treated with BuGL's outings? I am given to be viewed as a service rendered in hospitals or other specialized institutions, and it is only possible to serve there. Another is that at the Akureyri Hospital, a so-called BUG team, is also a cross-cutting team who handles the many serious problems of children in Akureyri and the area of Akureyri, as is done in BUNG, Reykjavík. Is it meant to strengthen the service of the Akureyri team? Is there any money going there? I imagine that it is not possible to rely solely on a long - term health service in this regard. I'm very happy if the health minister is going to promote national services. [[The president calls.]] I want to impress her on her answers very clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u110	A respectable president. The financial program estimates that the full budget of a mental - health program adopted by the General Assembly in 2016. It refers, in part, to the mental - health teams that are expected to build up in every quarter and in the capital area. This happens in certain steps. I believe that you can't wait at all, and it's extremely important to put pressure on that change rather than on the other. About a question why. A senator who deals with BUGL's activities and then corresponds to the service at the Akureyri Hospital, is my position when it comes to making arrangements for the funds now marked as a special hospital service, up to 23, if I recall correctly in financial and financial programs and then in financial terms, that the emphasis at the Land Hospital should be the same at the Akureyri Hospital. That's the main line, because we actually have a similar port of the north and east, and it's important that it lasts the whole time. Hv. A member of the body referred specifically to a distant health care service, correctly saying: "The matter will not be solved by prolonged health care. I think it's time that instead of talking about long - term health care, such as some specific health care providers, we begin to integrate distant health care into all aspects of health care, but it is, of course, also hanging on the possibility of communication. It's simply not possible to get into a proper computer relationship in the last ten yards of the country. That's the key. But I think there are quite many opportunities, especially in service to the elderly and in service that attracts interviews or such, to use communication even better than we have been doing so so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u111	Thank you very much. Minister very much for an informative answer. I'd like to see the BUG team set up just like the BUGL team in a financial program. It's the point I wanted to stress because I realize that the National Hospital should, of course, set aside his budget, like the Akureyri Hospital. Why don't we establish both teams? They're just as important, so I want to keep it a little bit forward. When we're trying to prevent a problem from building up, we've tried to install a team within the medical facility. That's fine. I figured we'd done the full - time medical work that's in my territory, in Akureyri, and around it. There are four psychologists who, then, are to cover 36,000 people. I hope it's going well. But that does not change the list of waitings there for a very long time. It is so long that people are pointed to a private service that costs 15,000 hours. Why is my last question: Why on earth haven't we opened up on a frame deal with Iceland's Medical Insurance? Why do we have to stand here and ask for a psychological service for prisoners, for high school students? Why do we simply not open the door for psychologists to go to health insurance, people to be paid for the benefits of psychologist service, just as we did for physical therapists? I don't see any difference in service there. That's why I want an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u112	A respectable president. These indicators that there are 9 thousand people behind each psychologist, i.e. that each of his nine thousand persons is according to the council's findings, and this is a perfunctory point of view. We are reaching that goal by means of this increase in psychologists in health care. It is my opinion that it is the right way to strengthen this front line, to strengthen the public's first contact with the health - care system, and that it is available to meet more medical groups than doctors and nurses. I think those steps were for good. Mental - health experts themselves talk about the importance of mental - health professionals as well as about their professional status and understanding. We might ask, " Why not also offer physical training and diligent exercise at the health care center? ' Is that not really the direction we should be going? If the person could have time with a physical therapist while waiting for the doctor's appointment, he may not even have to come to his doctor's office because he has suffered a relief from his illness. So it's a team game in both directions. I see what you're doing. A senator is saying. Why don't you just open a frame deal to psychologists? That's the natural pain of my daily routine. I am responsible for the whole body, and I need to be careful with regard to the targeted purchase of health care for limited public funds. Hence, there must be some sort of diagnosis, or understanding, of what might be the most reasonable way to set aside the money and how it serves the whole to the best. For us to know this, we need to see how these mental - health teams work and to get them to look at and appreciate the experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u113	A respectable president. I'm going to discuss the status of national hospitals at the highest level. Secretary of health. It's good to have this opportunity to meet her here in this field. She's done well in studying the situation, and especially in my own district, I know that. I would like to discuss with her the unprecedented increase in the population and foreign tourists who are attending the country's home, which has caused the hospitals in the country most of the problems. Southnesa Health Institutes and Health Organization live in an unprecedented increase in population and tourists and have faced difficulties for this, as well as in southernnes, many people who spend more time in service. At that time, Southnesia's health - care center lives on less than the equivalent of its institutions. There the health care is in trouble. There are many doctors, major pressures, nurses, and other staff. It has nurses on a lower salary than they do, and walks e.g. ... atSecond Hospital. It's a little hard to figure out what it's like. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister now in the first half of my question: A minister taking advantage of money for a five - year financial program to strengthen the position of these institutions and local hospitals, remembering that the population has increased far beyond the usual trend, as well as tourists?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u114	A respectable president. Like what? In this case, there have been significant changes in the work of some health institutions in the country, and I'm sure it's a special situation. I especially want to mention the health care institutions of Southnesia in this regard. There has been a very short period of unprecedented population growth, as well as a growing number of tourists. This is also true of the South country's health facility, although in other ways. The pressure has been partly due to tourists, but also, in part, to a major increase in transport. It's all the variables we need to have when we assess the production to each institution. This will not only help to take the population population on its own because in some parts of the district, the network has a huge number of projects to form on Southland Health Institutes, where the bases are eight and there is always a minimum key design in every area, which is different in the Southnes. All of this needs to be in the calculations. But I am absolutely aware that it is time to look to the situation in the South American Institute of Health regarding these challenges. In fact, I had a very good meeting with the local people for health care there in general last week. There, too, we were discussing the status of the elderly in the area. There are great challenges to the Agency, as well as hard work to do. There has been some difficulty with both nurses and doctors. Of course, it is heavier than tears that people need to look so as not to receive this basic service in their locality. I'm on the team. A senator in the field of public health care and especially for those who are ill. There's a senator here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u115	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for his excellent answers. I hope that we will share in the cooperation of these fine affairs along with the United Nations. I would like to follow this step to discuss the exact extracurricular services and medical transport that have been present for many years, as we know have been funded and of course need to improve the equipment and education of ambulances. I'd like to ask the minister if he intends to focus on strengthening the position of the ambulance. Or I would like to ask the minister if it would be possible for any medical transfer to be free of charge, free of charge, who has had a considerable discussion in the community. I'd also like to, although it's not long to ask the minister, to enter the great discussion that has been in the community on prevention. It has institutions, such as the Institute for Health at Whos' Building and Smokeloaf. I'd like to ask if it's really important that we put a lot of emphasis on prevention and these institutions that have been doing absolutely great things but have been funded in recent years. Will there be room for them in this five-year plan? I'd also like to ask her about the hospital Veng, if it's not too much time to improve the situation and shorten a waiting list of over 300 people on a waiting list and the same for other treatment institutions who are doing huge things too. This is getting people back to work, which is extremely important to society. We need to stick together and work to promote prevention in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u116	A respectable president. First about a question why. A senator on the outside hospital service. In fact, I have emphasized this aspect of health care, and I believe it is long ago time to try to reach out for the medical transportation as part of the health care system. More often than not the first contact with either the patient or the patient with an accident or an accident to the health system is actually in the ambulance or the helicopter or the plane. We need to look at it as the start of a person's contact with the health system. We've been doing some business at the Department of Health now in charge of ambulances and reinvigoration of ambulances. We've been trying to work it very hard with the emergency transport and the ambulance to ensure that the knowledge in the hideout, as it were, comes to pass. They have found great joy in being called to the table at that job. I hope to get advice on what the next step would be, but there we need to coordinate our ministry because it is like a lot of our quality health systems considerably fragile and different parts of the country, etc. We need to consider it as part of our health policy how we want to see it taking place. Hv. A senator then asks about the payment of this factor. This is one of the things we've been discussing, especially about the costs of patients going south and waiting, maybe we're primarily talking about women having food. Whether we want to meet the expense, I think it's something we need to think about. Hv. A senator finally asks for a rehabilitation agency in Whos making, Smokey Claus, and U.S.A. I think, unfortunately, it will be a conversation to wait a better time, but I'm very aware of this process all through the rehabilitation process.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u117	President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Health Minister on key challenges, forward vision and the primary objective of hospital service. A financial program shows that health care is a major concern, but the land hospital has had to close space because of lack of health care professionals, especially because of the lack of nurses. It also shows that a significant proportion of some healthcare professionals will start in the next few years, but recruitment in these classes has not been sufficient to attend, and it is considered necessary to respond immediately to this condition in order to reverse the trend. During the past few weeks, midwives have expressed tens of them because of the state's hardline policy in human affairs, so it is clear that lack of midwives will increase the health - care management problem. How are you planning to go to the top? Ministers respond to that situation? The future view of the topic field is, with permission of the president: A hospital should have a well - educated health care professional who has a good working environment and a remuneration. When it is considered, one operation is to increase the number of professionals needed to meet the human record requirements. This operation is to be performed in 2020 to 2023. There are two things I find strange in this operation. First of all, this does not rhyme with the call earlier in the chapter on the need to respond to the human body immediately to reverse evolution, and secondly, I cannot see that the operation, to increase the number of professionals to meet the human needs, is over the course of action. It's a goal. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What's the procedure? How would Ministers intend to achieve their intended objective, i.e. To increase the number of professionals? And why not take action immediately, since this is a major challenge to the seminary? How will a minister respond to the resignations of midwives?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's question. It is now that when we are writing into a financial program, we do not have all possible thoughts and thoughts and thoughts and goals and ways. I want to say it to what. Of course, a senator's assessment of human needs in the entire health system is a work being carried out. That's what we have to do, and then we're going to have to make the date and development of the population in Iceland. We need to put this side by side. At the same time, we watch that we already have a statement signed by the health minister, secretary of finance, and prime minister, who actually followed the results of a collective agreement with the BHM, that according to the human forecasts, action will be undertaken to strengthen the health status of the health profession. How will you do that, and what is it you're talking about? That's a very normal question. I took a memo into the government on the situation at the Land Hospital. In fact, it is in the news of every day and last night about the position that comes from a person's body and now in the order of nurses, when a patient is prepared for an operation, and then he must wait another week because the design is inadequate. This situation, whatever we would like to call it, is not a medical minister's project. There must be the task of more ministers in the government, that I especially mention prime minister and finance. That's why I've requested that this three department be involved in reviewing proposals available to the ideal and working environment of the health professions today and in response to this condition immediately. No longer will the pleasure of being, in effect, deeming public funds to educate large classes, which, in turn, do not enter into this vital inner well - being of the services.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u119	President. I'm going to change the subject for a moment because there's so much to tire here at this hour. I'm going to go to mental health. I'm glad to hear it. While the Ministry of Health is growing in mental health, I do not fully understand how this alone achieves the goal of increasing the access of patients to a broad range of mental - health services, which is the goal of number two in the press. This is particularly surprising in view of the fact that while environmental health care is being developed, which is very good, groups of people who have taken up the pioneer and effective preemptive work based on the authority of users for more than a decade and with good results for users of the ministry and community all. Clearly, not everyone will be suitable for having a mental - health service available to many, and it will likely work as a barrier to many. Hence, the variety of services is so crucial, and free organizations play a vital role. So I ask the highest. A health minister in the name of diversity whether a minister would be able to promote the following mental health care, get continued management through the AIDS Medical Insurance Convention? Then there is another important issue that has to do with individuals with known brain damage, but I wondered that little or nothing is taken from this important financial class until the next five years. It is clear that there is a great lack of knowledge in our system when it comes to the diagnosis and treatment of people with known brain damage. These include children who are often maligned with ADHD or with some type of person, as well as individuals in mental wards that do not belong at all. I understand the highest. A minister has met with Thinking, a companion of those with known brain damage, and then he spoke of the appointment of a group to see this sect. So I ask, "Do your best. " A minister puts this group together because I can't find a word about it in a financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u120	A respectable president. If I start with the last one, ask why. The senator's work is right after I've been meeting with Hugarfar. The meeting concluded my firm will to put together a team of work, which was actually a company's request for both policy and focus in the seminary. I believe that although financial programs are not directly spoken, they're going to be fine. I'd like to mention it to you, too. At the beginning of this week, I was convinced that this group would be started before the end of the week. So what? A senator reminds me if it doesn't work out. Whatever it is. Of course, a senator asked about the matter of mental health, so a variety of mental - health situations is not really just about what is commonly called mental health care, whether it is a mental hospital or a mental - health professional. In fact, mental - health services are being provided for all things to develop in colleges and nurses in high schools, in elementary schools, all over areas that involve not only physical health but also anxiety, anxiety, depression, etc., and mental - health services. So it is varied, and it is to be given in as many places as possible in the community. Impliciting the Communicator - It is not in the power of a health minister to put down an organization. I'll never do that. Like any other organization in the country, I will not put down a Conspiracy rather than any other member of the country, there are free organizations that are working toward their goals, just as mental help or any other organization is. But mental health care is an existing mental - health team, and we want the force in mental health to continue to be introduced into a new mental - health team in the capital area. I hope we agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u121	A respectable president. This is where we will discuss a Senate resolution on financial plans for 2019-2023 based on the government's financial policy since March. This schedule provides a solid basis for the essential infrastructure proposed in the following years. It is safe to say that it reflects the main emphasis the government has already placed on health matters. The aim of all the country's good health services regardless of the economy and habitat is in the spirit of the Arctic well - being model. It is a just, reasonable system, and a course to follow. A major challenge today is the rising age and aging of the people with the pressures of health care outside hospitals. It is necessary to work on health care policies and to respond as soon as possible to meet this major professional challenge. Caring for health care will remain one of the greatest challenges in the topic field. That's what we're talking about all over the country. Health agencies away from the capital area have had difficulty getting health care professionals to work, and there is a need for all advice on this trend. It is important for both public health and improved health care and for the basis for a good financial program that we want to maintain. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only to the design. We've been solving these cases with contractors in the country. I'm asking how she sees it going to solve these issues, whether the financial plans include them in some way, and whether this should go to education, or whether the money goes to the contractors.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u122	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator's general challenge in the manpower we've only killed here is simply a lack of health care staff both across the country and here in the capital area, as well as the challenges of mixing working doctors primarily at a particular institution and being contractors elsewhere at the same time. We have also heard the concern of the director of the Land Hospital moving doctors to be in full - time service at the Land Hospital and possibly affecting the position of the hospital as to science and participation in the research and position of the hospital as a university hospital. So all of it plays together. I think the most important thing in this at first is simply discussing it as part of the overall picture. I have come to realize that the discussion about the operation of doctors is a sort of shy matter, that it is something people find difficult to discuss, and especially when it is the case with the person that is even a regular worker in a medical facility and then with someone else. The public out there asks themselves, " How can this be? How can it be? '? That is one of the things we need to consider. Hv. A senator asks if we will see all of this together in a financial program. What we're doing now are these large frames, these large outlines of the system. I have expectations that we will be able to control the system more systematically, but it's very fragile today. We need to get a better grip on that. So today's financial agenda reflects our estimate of the total need of capital into the system that we certainly need to move to as policy progresses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u123	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. I think it's true what she says that we have to say it out loud and discuss it in order to understand how things are happening and how we can handle them. It is a pleasure to see that the status of the State Fund is strong, as is shown in a financial program, and there is sufficient room to put more money into our existing community parks over the past year. The situation is different now, and it is important to look ahead. The highest construction of a new hospital on the Ring Road, increasing or increasing the number of nursing homes and nurses, is to improve their equipment and management, thus reducing the pressure of the Land Hospital, and long since it has become time. This year, a new treatment core is started, but its main weight is from 202020/2023, and it is clear that a large part of the money planned for an investment at a hospital service of 75 billion U.S., is being built into a new Hospital. It cannot be avoided. I'm also going to name a reserve job, and I'm happy not to promote health care as my first stop. Care must be taken to ensure that all diseases will be treated similarly, both physically and spiritually. It is important to take part in mental - health activities and to build up in all health - care districts throughout the country. There would be a big step in the preconceived issue, which will bring him back to a great deal of time. I would also like to celebrate the increase in money from physical therapy, practice, and speech training, which is important to us. A respectable president. This financial strategy shows that bioavailability should also be guaranteed in the region as well as in the capital area, especially where limited services are available. These are all important factors to promote an increase in health care, regardless of where we want to be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u124	A respectable president. I still appreciate it. A senator for her input and speculation. I see her as her main subject of speculation that equalizes in access to health care regardless of her residence. Of course, that is of utmost importance. Because we were only talking about doctors' contractors contractors, I don't think we should forget the factors that are involved in the right of people regardless of their home to enjoy a family in health care, i.e. that there is not one doctor today and another tomorrow, and that health care is not some technical issue, but is also about a firm trust and integrity in the community, that the person knows what he is doing and can enjoy the health care so that it is part of the current cardiovascular system. I think it's also very important, and it won't be too often said. We must not talk about health care, as if it were a matter of boxing, that there is some doctor at some point in life, but it must also be a long - term center of community design. Hv. A senator also mentioned the preemptive work. That's especially important to me. And most important - I took a step in opposition to what happened earlier. A senator - when it comes to serving the elderly. I think it was a huge deal, reaching more toward the elderly. The organization does so in a more decisive and active way to support the elderly in order to care for their health and for longer periods of time, thereby being able to enjoy quality longer and more in their own environment and home if the person chooses to do so. This, of course, applies to all parts of the country, as well as in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u125	Mr. President. I'd like to take on my mental health at the highest level. Secretary of health. One thing that may be a major ornament of the government's topic contract, making it attractive is the chapter on health matters that discusses the initiatives in mental health, very timely, and urgent. Now, Mr. President, this is a great test and is expressed by the overwhelming concerns of patients, caregivers, the guardians of the Minds and the mental team as followed by mental health. Let me quote the minister's words in response to a question from which. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, as I wrote them down, when the highest. Minister says he hopes that the power of Faith will be introduced into a new mental - health team. Then we're naturally talking about this P.P.V. team. I don't have to explain to the highest. Ministers to Psychias ◯ Following, and Courage operates on another basis. They work on an open basis, on the basis of authority, etc. I would like to refer to the wonderful articles of Tryggvi, son of Gíslason, former Dean of Akureyri, which appeared in the Morning Press on April 3, as well as the wonderful articles published in the morning paper under the headline of my son's life. I'll let me say to the highest. Minister: Is there no clearer answer from a minister than has been made in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u126	A respectable president. Mental - health issues are an all - important factor, as we have seen here. What may be most important when we discuss psychiatric matters in general is that we come to realize - I am especially concerned with these days, who are not inclined to ask questions. A senator, the situation of addiction addicts - has to be removed from the time when we feel that society is the task of getting involved in addiction and mental illness. It must be a medical and health - care project with the same professional ambition, with the same professional requirements, and with the same respect for those in need of health care, as well as for physical illnesses. It is not enough that the public health services just say that others have to take care of it. With such diseases, whether there are psychiatric disorders or addictions that often go hand in hand, we must be careful that we remove the reproach that has been far too rich in society, I am determined to say for many centuries, that people have to be ashamed of such diseases. For example, the public health care services have been unable to control the situation of young addicts or drug addicts. That is not to be imitated. Because of what? A senator asks first of all about mental health and mental - health follow - ups and mental powers. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen also asked about earlier it was so that the new mental health teams that will be established, and some are already on the move, open resources, and based on ideologies of authority, as a team of mental health follow-up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u127	Mr. President. Of course, I don't need to be less than the highest. A minister has a view of a variety of resources that is emphasized by the United Nations and the World Health Organization as far as I know. Of course, a minister does not have to point out what a minister may be aware of, of course, that resources such as what we are dealing with here and now, the Psychias follow-up and the Power of Mind, and the official system that a minister places very strongly on does not rule out each other. There's no argument here. It has very simply been called after that a minister may strike a armored city for this operation, not allow it to happen on watch minister that these activities have produced excellent results in the execution of judgment by those who have been used by her and end in this way. I have a wish for the Minister that a minister is not in the defense here in this case to feel compelled to answer some question not asked a minister, such as whether she will be able to bring down a spirit force. Of course, none of us can think of a minister in the government of Iceland to bring down a free organization. [[Up front.]] I reiterate my encouragement to the highest degree. Ministers to simply revise their position on this matter, to strike a armored city of options that has proved to be successful and to act as a winner in this case, but not on the bad path I see best. I'm afraid a minister has found his way in. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u128	A respectable president. What really matters in the general health - care field is that we who make decisions may not lose sight of the fact that this is all about the user, about the one in need of health care. It is not about guardians or guardians of some particular resource or something but about the quality of the resources available to them and their usefulness in the ministry. Iceland's health system is composed of several institutions. One of them is the health care of the capital area. This institution has, professionally, come to a certain conclusion about the order of events in terms of mental health. I have asked for both financial and professional reasons for this conclusion because there have been doubts and questions raised, both in the preeminents and in the political and the media. I asked for this information to reflect on the possibility that there was a basis for questioning the health care of the capital area. That argument I haven't seen. I have seen nothing other than the fact that the health care of the capital area has both financial and professional evidence with reference to the universal mental health policy to reach this conclusion. In the case of some decisions made by the Office of the Ministry, I would like to avoid the longest law that allows me to intervene. A senator proposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u129	A respectable president. I'm not gonna call for any more money into the system. I'd like to talk about what it's like to take advantage of the money already in the system and then maybe get a little more information on the real resources that are being added to the system. One of the main challenges to working on health - care policies is to improve efficiency, use of human resources and expertise, increase cooperation, and clearness of action. One thing that needs and is important in this type of work is that information about the current position, especially the actual use of the available resources, is available. So I'd like to go to the first round and ask if it's the highest. Ministers are well aware of the perspective she has on using funds now, so that she is content to take the money into the system before these policies are available. But the system is being added, all right, but what money? Yesterday, in the middle of the Morning Press, an article was left behind. A member of the Independence Party Óli Björn Kárason wrote that over the next five years the system was adding 56 billion. The left side of the middle, there is now a little political in it, was an article from the highest. A minister where it speaks of a system being improved by 79 billion. I realize these two great politicians probably know what they're talking about. But for the rest of us, it would be fine if the government would agree on the sums, even though we are kneeling to the position of government. In fact, it could be said, because when you look at it on the left, it might even be said that if that money is the case, it would be broken. Minister's talking about 79 billion. In addition to the actual use of the current budget, I'd like to know which money we're talking about in this program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u130	A respectable president. It was a little good at what I was doing. A senator might remind me to talk more to Óli Kárason Káflán, not to think that there is a special goal in my life. First of all, ask me why. A senator to whom I think the question is, would the minister have a good feeling that she has a perspective on exactly how the money is set down now into the health system? I don't have a very good feeling about it, no. This is over 200 contracts to film that are at Iceland's Medical Insurance. In a number of these, we are actually talking about the amount being calculated from year to year, and that is what I have. The premise I have from medical institutions is a mismanagement, a range of strong economics, as it were, in medical institutions. We are very embarrassed in Iceland regarding health and welfare statistics in general. I feel that this is a concern, especially because of the size of the health - care system in the movement of government funds. So I feel very embarrassed, and I was surprised when I arrived at the Ministry of Health, or at the Ministry of Health, how weak we are to call for evidence and call for numbers just as hard. The strongest medical economy is probably at the Land Hospital. That's the situation. Hv. A senator then asks if the numbers, the minister, were correct. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson. What I'm talking about when I say 101 and 79, and when I say 101, I'm putting together what's going to happen in the whole season. I can deliver it. A senator figures I have from the Ministry on this, I'm talking about over 60 billion at the university hospital and 25 or 26 in a nursing home and other factors. I hope I can reach the second number in the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u131	President. I kind of have to say to the highest. Minister I hope not, because I'm in everything else right now. We just have to have that discussion later. I don't normally stand here without talking about business plans in health care, especially because the fine ex-supervisor of the private enterprise, the Independence Party, seems to have completely superseded itself out of that discussion. A red thread in the section of the financial program involving health care is the support of the public health care system, and it is well established. This is the way that I would like to discuss, how far I will be able to promote the public system at the expense of the many private people who have spent years, for decades, helped to build strong and good health systems. I'd like to ask you about the health care services of Caiaphas. It has been done in 1994 under the service contract for people with chronic and incurable diseases, and if this is a full room, I could say that there were some who had much to do with this service. The situation is so now, and I know that the highest. Minister knows, the deal is very upset. They have simply given up. Why? They have lost staff to the governor's land hospital, offered a better vote. Now it is time for Karitas to cancel the contract a month ago and will stop working in the fall if so. The work that has already begun to reduce the number of sails, the number of shelters, and now it seems to be forced, if not reformed, to replace the operation. This certainly increases the operation of the Land Hospital. The question is, is that the goal? Does this promote health care? This is possible, I say possible, one of the key things where we have the highest. There is a difference between health ministers. Is the contribution of this important, good, and delicate service that Karitas has extended to many people for decades to the Land Hospital in order to improve our system? Although I'm asking about the Land Hospital, it can be applied to a lot of other people. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u132	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks how far it will go in promoting the public system and whether it will be done at the expense of those who are already serving on the basis of agreements. It is not my own goal to accept the current activity. It is my own goal to ensure the more targeted provision of public funds and to ensure increased equality in the field ministry. That this has been found in new reports that it is not clear enough. However, it is a debate that is not far from the most accessible holes in Icelandic politics, that is exactly this debate, but I think it is most important to keep it in place that we are talking about the ministry being given. And in my opinion, there is also an independent goal in making agreements for such a service that the service is not thought to be a means of profit for individuals or businesses. Because of what? A senator specifically asks about Karitas, so it is true that I have met Karitas and had a good meeting with them. Their situation is in some respects comparable to that of a similar small firm in Akureyri, which is in a similar situation but has actually contributed to some of the other solutions to the problems involved in increasing cooperation with the Hospital in Akureyri. But I do not have an independent approach to the deal with Karitas, and I hope and, of course, expect that contract to be completed and that it will be taken care of. I agree with what. A senator says that the services that that this company provides are of utmost importance and is an important chapter and precious in the history of many of us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u133	Mr. President. The Icelandic people are getting old. That's what we're at the highest. Minister to do the same. The number of people in the waiting lists after a hospital stay has increased from 180 to 368 in the past five years and the longest waiting time has been reached. However, nurses have only increased 90 since 2010 or about 3.5% at the same time as individuals 80 years of age and older have increased by less than 11%. By permission of the President, the government covenant says: A nursing card adds stress to the hospitals and reduces the quality of life of the elderly. There is evidence that the need for building is significant in the next five years. There will be a major press conference for construction and will be published in the government budget. Now we've been allowed to see the financial program. There's no sign of this big hit in black on white. During the period, 550 new nurses are expected to be served, but the amount needed to build up is limited and is sufficient for about 120 compartments. Besides, it is not enough to build a nursing home. You see, they need to be fired too. The situation today is that they are fired at several billion dollars. tilted every year. That tail is paid by the operator, including The rurals. It is not dangerous to believe that rural areas will pay about 1 billion. K. with each residence every year. These funds require that their communities take from another service they run. This is especially sad, since these rural communities compete with one another and with foreign countries. They need to set aside contributions for their culture, sports, and even the social services of the elderly. So I want to ask the highest. A minister is convinced that there is any possibility that there will be a chance of amplifying these financial promises and at least how they intend to add money to the lawsuit so that costs will not be rolled over to anyone other than those who are actually going to bear it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u134	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing up a medical staff position. I am very proud to be a health minister who introduces the possibility of adding an existing financial plan, which expected an increase of 250 space in the next five years, or four years in real life, of 300 emptying the number. I think I'm something we can be proud of. In addition, we're talking about a substantial increase in space to improve accessories, i.e. 550 new space as well as 240 that will be improved. Of course, these projects are all financed in a financial program. Of course. I'm just glad to go over that matter with a sense of urgency. A senator here somewhere. After all, over 100 billion in the entire period are covered by additional investment contributions. This building of nurses is expected there. Hv. A senator brings up a matter of utmost importance. The Declaration of the Government Order speaks of improving the base of the nursing homes. That's what we have to do. Of course, that is what we must discuss. I'm assuming we'll review the issues with the members of the business, including the European Union. As shown in the matter of what. A senator is extremely important to have these conversations with the rural communities, especially since it seems now that his previous plans to move the elderly to the rural community have been waiting in the long run.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u135	Mr. President. No wonder we're waiting. Farmers are much closer to returning their business, the ones who have it. They cannot offer their people the opportunity to engage in other illegal or even legal services in order to cost something that the State should pay. It's just not right at the top. Minister, this is the amount of money. I've already struck the cost of the square metres and the number of spaces. I think it's a financing here, using the entire budget, 5 billion for 125 spots. Then there's the rehabilitation program, which we're talking about. It's going to run this and add into the network, and then we're going to add the 240 compartments that are going to rebuild because we know that it's not cheap to turn a firehouse and adapt to our modern needs. It's good to be added, indeed. I'll support the Minister to do that. However, it is not good and pleasant to tell the people that you will do something but that you will not do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u136	A respectable president. But it is both good and beautiful that it was presented in the previous talk. A senator says we're just as old. It may be easier for me to live up to that than to be expected. A senator. I'd like to correct what I had earlier, the construction of these nursing homes is a treasure. On the other hand, with regard to it as a dog. Regarding moving to a rural community, a senator mentioned these details, perhaps it is part of the explanation. I now tend to think that the explanation is also looking for many communities to believe that the transfer of disabled people to rural society has not been properly completed. In addition, it is as if in a bill I also recommended yesterday or earlier, that there are growing doubts in the community that older people are a lawsuit, and thus they should be brought to the countryside with some kind of government pent line when they have some birthday party. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to be glad that the head of Iceland's team of officers is happy to join me in growing health issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u137	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister for her speech and answers to many of the questions that have been raised in this government financial program, which has been graded as the result of poverty and misery, to the invitation of the left green. V.E.G. One minister early said that she was going to save the health system. I wanted to go over it a little bit. The first steps have been taken, not by ballet, but by something completely different. One of the highest. Ministers have made an evil effort to attack the most beloved women in Iceland, midwives, and scrambling them, including the establishment of a union in the state - of - state year 100 years ago. It's supposed to be a cause for their calamity in the baloney. I was very disappointed. V.E.G. Minister has talked about system changes. I'm not completely aware of what system changes are at the highest level. A minister wants to fight for hiding, so I want her to answer me about it. I've heard from the highest. Ministers that it does not exist in promoting private health care, such as in the capital area, despite the very fine results of those already available to shorten a waiting list. Nor is it possible to deal with the largest system change that is prone to spilling into the waters of 100 billion dollars. to build a new national hospital in a new location. In fact, the leading godfather of the Ring-foscot said in a newspaper article the other day that it could be that, 16 years ago, something else had been talked about than building on the Ring Road, which is exactly what we've been saying is the best place for the national hospital to be. I wanted a minister to respond to this for the first time.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u138	A respectable president. First of quotations about poverty and misery. I think it's important to make sure that, in general, when we talk about public service, especially health and welfare services, and, of course, the education system too, that access to this service is also delicate. It is important for those who have least within their hands that the cost of access to such basic services is kept to a minimum. In fact, my opinion is that this kind of service should be free of charge. Therefore, it is my contribution as health minister to reduce poverty - I believe it is a shame that we have to face poverty in Iceland over our heads - to systematically reduce the expense of patients. Hv. A senator also asks about the health care status according to business practices. It is true now that certain clinics run into a private legal structure have been set up here. It is also important, in view of what I have been considering at the Ministry, to better ensure the equality of these institutions, on the one hand on public ground and on the other, on the other hand, on the matter of financing. How important it is to ensure that such a situation exists! Then, with the goal of making the service equal for those who enjoy it. Of course, it is our duty that people do not have to pay for their choice at a clinic. With regard to the location of the Land Hospital, I look forward to coping with what may be called a university hospital. A senator in the future will answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u139	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. I think we're both interested people, me and the highest. Ministers, as she said earlier, must minimise health care costs. In fact, a few years ago, Mckinseyr's data report on the Land Hospital was published ▪ A State Hospital, which, unfortunately, has received a little too little publicity and is the subject of a special discussion that I would encourage. I believe that there is a great need at the largest workplace in Iceland that there is a concern about handling funds and that would be very helpful in reviewing this case with a minister. The second, this time is absurdly short, that I must also express concern because I have felt that there was any apathy among the Ministers of a free organization. I'm going to remind you that today, this morning, sad news comes from the U.S.A. that they no longer trusted to receive teenagers in there. [[The president calls.]] It adds to the waiting list already, both there and elsewhere. I would like a brief answer from a minister as to what she intends to do to overcome it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u140	A respectable president. First of all, the final words of what? A senator for a press release just arrived in the media today on the United States and the youngest group in the hospital of Vogi for addiction. The next step is that we will meet at the Ministry with those most familiar in this sector. IN THE press release, this decision has been explained by means of a reference to specific events that have been reported. The Ministry cannot help but sit down and review with the U.S.A. as normal. Because of what? A senator spoke about the McKinsey report is on the mind of each of the next few days; I even think it's next week, meeting with the authors of that report to take care to maintain that discussion. I agree with what. There is good reason for a senator to continue to discuss what is presented there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u141	Mr. President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Health Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir on the budget and on the labour market, especially when it comes to health care professionals. You see, we were standing here at a council hall when the law was passed on to the workings of the medical professions. I remember good cooperation then. A health minister is naturally well versed in such matters. I watched a talk I held then and compiled what came from the surgeon at the time, now a medical minister's assistant. Two weeks before Healthcare Professional Jobs, including optics and nurses, radiologists, and others sent a letter to the government by the surgeon, saying that patients in the country cannot be protected. So the day before the strike, he sent another letter. You can see this on my blog right now. I put this in there. Then it was said that there would be one way or another. What was available then was not making a deal. And it wasn't written. There were only laws on the strike of midwives and nurses. It wasn't a long-term solution, the surgeon said then. And now, in the day, contracts are back free from these classes. It's not a long-term solution. Many midwives have now quit. This is one of the most intimate and serious cases in our health - care system today, perhaps the greatest danger we are facing. A health minister recently mentioned the role of health ministers, prime ministers, and financial ministers to cope with this. What does a health minister see in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u142	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's composure is the most urgent issue today. They are really one side to those here on this design problem in the health - care system. Because the designer's problem is not only about buying and buying in traditional ways but also about the fact that the work environment is more and more challenging. In some respects, there is a decline in the potential for development and participation in scientific activities. We'll see, for example. figures that the Landspians have been falling behind as far as science is concerned. This is all part of the way people feel at work and how they develop from day to day. The health status of the health professions does not merely represent these factors, i.e. how the husk environment is now arranged in those words. What I would like to suggest is that, first of all, the human forecasts will be accelerated. I think it's very important that we see in the long run what society needs, as it were, in order to speed up the health system into the long future. However, there are some suggestions that have been made both within the camps at the Land Hospital and at the Ministry that depend on individual aspects of the work and on the services of certain health professions. These are some of the suggestions that have been offered in such populations. These suggestions exist, and I would like to present them on board for the minister of finance and for the prime minister where we could jointly and responsibly contribute our weight to the scales so that we do not repeatedly educate whole groups of health groups and then lose them, I'm afraid to say, right men to joy; lose our investment from the hands of society, out of the health system because people don't trust to do them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u143	Mr. President. When discussing health care professionals in the administration covenant, it is said that they will create a desirable medical field for health care professionals. I see what we're talking about. They may not want to take as deep as they once did. It was then spoken of as being comparable to the northern nations. It's a little watered expression as far as it goes, if I'm just completely honest. It is true that the health minister says: "What is in charge of health care professionals? It told me that when I was studying these matters at the time, it was the salary and the work load that really mattered to the staff. The workload is important in this. I hope, therefore, that a health minister will be able to persuade the Prime Minister and financial secretary to work out a successful solution with health care professionals, now midwives, and others with open contracts. [[The president calls.]] I will support it. But I'm going to fight very hard if you're going to try to restore the law to a strike. It's not gonna be available here. I've begun asking Pirate's grass root if she's not supporting the language if they're going to go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u144	President. The debate with these teams today has only been made up of the declaration we jointly signed, which was added to a collective labour agreement with BHM, i.e. I, the minister of finance and prime minister, are given special attention to the working environment and the best health professions. Why was this proclamation declared? Well, that's because there are so many urgent matters. At that time, I thought it was still very important to ensure a broad political approach to the case. Of course I'm especially excited. A senator and Pirata in general in the medical and health systems and have experienced the presence of members of the Bethel family. But because of him. A senator also speaks of the constantly occurring equipment and work environment, as well as the yesterday's declaration of the Hospital's Hospital of Medicine, which shifted to these external factors, tourists, and growing older ones, as well as the situation of the facilities and housing needed to be fixed. [[The president calls.]] That's why it's so important to start the building on Ring Road.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u145	A respectable president. I'm going to ask the highest. Secretary of health. In a talk earlier, she said that professional assessment was made that it would be all right to lay down a mental team of Humungus. Then I ask: What professional assessment was that? We're talking about real death, about people's lives. I say for my part, I don't like losing any more friends because my system lets them down. This is very serious. I ask because the sum is not high. We're talking about 10% of what's expected to be in this category, as I understand, in the capital area, about 500 million. These are the 50 million to 60 million in question. Let this team continue to work without tearing it down while the rest is building up. Let us at least show it by our actions. There's something else I want to talk about, and it's about the cost of an old citizen from abroad to get to a doctor and that sort of thing. I know people don't make it. They can't afford it. How should we react? It will be much more expensive for health care if these people have to be put in because they are not able to qualify for this service. Also regarding the dentistry of older citizens and disability: People refuse to do so. I know. I've been across the table. It's not a question, it's just the last part of the program. One, two, and three are having a meal, and they also need money to go to the doctor and buy some medicine. So I'm going to ask you, "What is the vision of this future?" Are we going to make sure it's okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u146	A respectable president. First as a boy. A senator asked about at the end of the question and found dentists desperate and the elderly. In this or last week, I was able to get results from a dentist, invalid, and elderly group of people who were suggesting how we should solve 500 million earmarks this year to meet the dental costs of these groups. And then a billion a year thereafter. I wondered if that amount is good enough. She's close, probably just underrated. On the other hand, the results have come to me. My next step is to put Iceland's Medical Insurance on the basis of a dental plan so that we reduce the expense of these groups and these 500 million ratios to disability and older people who will be able to enjoy dental health to a greater extent than we have been. Hv. A senator also asks about the travel cost of disability and the elderly from abroad. Now, in this financial program, certain amounts have been taken away during the financial period to reduce the expense of patients in general. I've asked the Ministry to get different suggestions or stage photos of how to do this. What is it that we would like to cut down our expenses? One is simply to lower the roof of medical care and medicine. The other is to combine it under one roof. Of course, much has been said about travel costs. That's one of the things I think we need to examine. But part of this, also for the desperate and elderly living in the country, is that we better define the kind of specialised service to be in the country, which specialists should be available there as part of a accessible health system for that group just like others.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u147	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for these answers. I trust and believe that dentists and others will be fixed. But she didn't answer anything about the Courage and the psycho team. I hope she finds out later. But I'd like to point out that to reduce, as I said to the highest. Prime Minister earlier today, cost me a bit of chill. There are people out there who just can't afford it. Then we should make sure that the individual does not need to be drawn out of their place, but receives the ministry free of charge, can go to that service without any financial concern. No matter what the disease is, whether it is cancer or not. We are to make sure that people are able to walk into the nearest clinic or hospital and receive the services they need without having to record the wallet. They can't afford it. I'm gonna believe it. I'm gonna trust it to be that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u148	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A candidate debates the fundamental view that basic health services should be free of charge. I agree with what. A senator with that. With this view, I've wanted to contribute to a financial program of five years to the conclusion that Iceland is unprovable to the fact that patient payment is between 17 and 18%, high in international comparison. I've stressed that this payment session needs to be reduced. Thank you. For example, a senator would say that he gets chills when he is spoken of as reducing expenses. It is a good reminder for us to remember that there are so many who refuse medical treatment and, at the expense of the cost, even more so. Thank you. A senator for mentioning that. The Senator asked for a mental - health escort. It was the health care of the capital area, with professional reasoning, that came to this conclusion. I haven't seen any arguments that point to another professional basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u149	Mr. President. I would like to look at the new treatment core of the long - awaited Land Hospital, or rather, of the side effect when it is put into use in 2023. I am happy that the government will abide by the plans of the previous government. Everyone who has observed this discussion knows that the current housing is beginning to be shaped by its members and its limitations, especially by me, or is not to be said least, we are certainly talking about facilities both in patients and in staff, but at least at the same time the instruments and the progress towards the medical services offered here. Everyone who has observed the discussion on these matters knows what expectations are made for what we can offer in health care, how we are going to attract new staff, follow up the development in neighboring countries, and be competitive when this new treatment unit is applied. I missed a little while ago in a financial program not seeing what my goals were at cost of equipment. This new hospital building should be prepared and ready to go to work and meet these expectations as we would like in a few years and, if well enough, should be started on all diagnostics and organizations and be set aside for a certain cost. I know that as weird as there's medical funds for both the Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital hidden in there somewhere, it's very hard to figure out, it can be there. But I'm calling for the highest. Minister will inform me of the situation with this plan. Are we ready? Where can you find information inside the document?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u150	A respectable president. That's right. That's a very important tip. Senator. So far, we may have turned our attention primarily to the construction of the building of the block, but less to the things that cannot be overlooked, which is at first adapting the existing buildings to the change and development of instruments to the changes on the entire property. That's exactly what we're going to do. A senator that is not clearly within the schedule at all, as this does not occur until the treatment core is due. I've already started a job that has a point of setting up a plan like this. We cannot cope with the fact that once the building is completed, we need to figure out how we will fill new buildings with activity and bring the current activity into new facilities and in effect how the building on the property meets the changed circumstances. This is something that needs to be part of the future vision of the mission on Ring Road. I have also requested to go to the Land Hospital, to make sure that there is a good access to the project, to immediately begin the need for a diagnosis and assessment of the need for the walkway, which is part of another stage so that the progress on the site will not be broken or delayed. Outside of this, you need to keep up, because it's an unprecedented scale on a project and an enormously important one to succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u151	President. I thank you for the answers, and I look forward to watching how this is done. Like a nice man from the system said to me, this is likely to put Kingdom Hall next if there's no problem. I'd like to use the last seconds I have here after a nice conversation with the highest. A health minister to get back to what we discussed in the business plans. The minister suggested that we had gone to a standard foxhole. I think it's a little cheap. We're discussing politics, discussing how we make the most of our money. That's what both of us are going to do. But we may not necessarily agree. I think it's a pretty good idea to talk about me going down to the quadruples and there's some business way we don't want it, nobody wants it. Why would I want my tax dollars to do that? I think it's pretty steep at the same time as the fact is, there's a lot of control over private operations. Occasionally, the line has been out of control there, but it is at the highest level. Minister himself here says he doesn't have the perspective over the system. [[The president calls.]] The system is, of course, the main public business. It's not holes, it's politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u152	A respectable president. I'm sorry if it seems like I was saying what to do. A senator said he was in holes. That wasn't the point. I was simply saying that the discussion of business shapes is a well - known discussion that may be of little value to us in talking about service. It was my word, and it was as direct to myself as it was to the euphemism. Senator. It is true that certain parts of the health care programme are closely monitored. Then I'm both talking about quality and frames and contract requirements. In some places. That applies both to the public system and to extraordinary agreements. However, it has been specifically suggested that in contracts completed by Iceland's Medical Insurance, we, the state, are too much to be expected to be what the job is, what it's worth, what it's done, what it's done, what it wants to buy. It is of great importance both for the segregators, users, and buyers of the health service to know exactly what to do in these contracts. [[The president calls.]] That's what we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u153	V.E.G. President. The work and scope of the 17th Environment area are somewhat broad and varied. The five categories of activity, which are: 1 nature protection, forestry and land healing, 2nd research and monitoring of Iceland's nature, 3rd management of waste, 4th defense against nature's threat, 5th environmental management. The budget of 2020 is estimated to increase from 17.5 billion by the budget of 2018 to 21.4 billion dollars in the annual budget. in 223 C.E. The annual increase in total budget is about 3.9 billion. that there is real value and a value of 22.4%. Looking forward to 2017, this rise was observed in 35%. Cumulatively increasing the spending distances to a variety of priorities over the period will be about 14.7 billion. The main focus of this increase in budget is the challenges to climate and protection. A future view of climate change in EU greenhouse gas emissions and that Iceland is moving towards a target of the Paris Treaty and the aim of a non-carbonization in the year 2040. 6.8 billion dollars are expected to be spent. in increasing climate-related activities during the period. Of these, it is expected that approximately 5.3 billion will be used to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the programme. These include measures to support energy exchange in transport and seas, such as the build-up of electrical vehicles and electricalisation rejections; measures to set carbon emissions, such as increase in carbon costs and the implementation of evaporation taxes; better use of agricultural production and land supply; and recovery of the so-called F-guaases, which are powerful sources of greenhouse gases used for the cooling element. By then 1.5 billion will be expected. will be spent on projects related to innovation, research, education, and awareness about climate. All of this, the Ministry has set two of the following goals: 1st That by 2019 there is a implementation of a climate-related action programme that will cover the community's activities and aim to meet the commitment of the Paris Convention and the government's aim for noncarbonization. 2. To establish and work according to the global monitoring system on the state of plant and soil resources ensures that data on the emissions and binding of carbon in soil and vegetation are available at any given time. A vision of natural protection is that there has been significant progress in the field, widespread agreement on energy use for land and sustainable use criteria for natural resources. The main focus is to support good looks in the construction of infrastructures, increase and improve land control and effort in terms of peace and living things. The estimated 7.5 billion dollars are spent. in the protection of nature, including 4 billion projects related to infrastructure, such as planning, implementation, increased professional knowledge, nature's monitoring and education, 2.2 billion dollars. for an increase in land protection and for both a series of national and temporary land protections across the country and 1.3 billion for building national parks in the middle of Iceland's central highlands. In this regard, the Ministry among others set two of the following goals: 1st That over the next five years, the current government plans for a peaceful profile of 30 nature reservations, including the formation of a national park in the centre of Iceland, have been implemented. 2. That the pressures of the destinations of tourism in environmental protection areas are within the range of tolerability, including with a structure of relevant infrastructure and agriculture to regulate tourism management and maintain the protection of natural protection areas. While it is clear that the main focus of the Ministry will focus on climate and nature protection and to increase the budget primarily on these issues, there are additional challenges for increasing sustainable use of natural resources, review of waste policy and waste targets, with emphasis on the cycle and use of waste as a resource for other activities, and natural challenges. As a whole, I think we're looking at the largest increase in environmental contributions so far, to work a lot. The plan provides opportunities for large attendances with the goal of improving protection and thus the basis for natural use, especially for tourism and jobs in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u154	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Ministers for his review, which in many respects pay a fine price. He has a measure of pity, and he has a great visionist in his present legalistic group, who, in fact, is in a lightly dressed among the defenses of the government of three categories of people who are less interested in these enthralled environments. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment Minister to the carbon charge. It was increased by 50% at the beginning of the year when the last government plan was raising it by 100%. However, now that the left green is in government, this necessary action to protect the climate is reduced. A newly developed financial program suggests that carbon bills will be raised by 10% in 2019 and by about 10% by 2020. That's 70% in three years. It is estimated that each increase will bring up the state budget by 600 million. K. every year. But what is it about the highest? Environment Minister, Minister of Nature and Left Green? Yes, this is a significant reduction in green taxes from what was once determined. From the presentation of that being the highest. The minister of finance, the son of Benedikt Jóhannesson, in the financial program of that government, just a year ago, was determined to raise the carbon account 100% from January 1, 2018. It was said that further action on green taxes would be considered later. Why in the world is there a threat to the plans now that left green is in government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u155	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. To answer, it is true that the carbon tax was increased by 50% on January 1, 2018, and will rise by 10% to 2019 and another 10% 2020. Certainly, this is not as much as the plans of the previous governments anticipated that were 100% in 2018. I can say what I think of that. I believe the carbon bill is important, especially in the effort to change the behavior of people in the community in order to disappear from the use of fuel - efficient vehicles, in this case, to use vehicles that are less polluted. We must not forget, though, that at the same time, there has already been a change in the appeal to lesspolluting vehicles and entering 2018. There is also a plan to review these matters in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where there will be a better consideration of possible extras and other matters required in the Constitution. If we look at the figures in that box, it will be about 2 billion 2018, 600 million 2019, and another 600 million in 2020, i.e. A total of 3.2 billion. the period as it appears today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u156	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. The response to climate crisis is not a pet project but one of the greatest projects in every government around the world. We live in such times that if we Icelanders are not going to take steps in our fight against carbon emissions, we can forget all our commitments to noncarbonization in the year 2040. Those words are beautiful, but we must do our job. It's about so much more than a party bitch or the future of some government. I must declare deep disappointments with regard to the issues of a financial agenda that depend on climate. I thought left greens were seriously thinking about the climate, but when they get the chance, it's the result. It reduces green taxes and little or nothing to public transportation. The private car is, like, the highest. Minister knows well, whoever leads to half the emissions on this land. They reduce green taxes and try to wipe them out by saying that there are other schemes at the same time. Of course, there are other plans at the same time. It was also in the plans of the last government. There are other things to do at the same time, but there is a firm decision to reduce and lower green taxes. That's why I'm asking the highest. Environment Minister if there is any assessment of how much carbon costs are needed to reduce transport greenhouse gas emissions by e.g. Ten percent before 2020, or 25% before 2025. You're in a hurry, chief. Minister, any evaluation behind the left-green decision to reduce this green tax?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u157	V.E.G. President. The interest in climate is greatly increased over the course of years, as was evident from my historical background. Climate production is increasing by 6.8 billion. during this five - year period. It hasn't been seen before. Granted, the carbon pay is not being raised as much as the previous government planned, but I also remind you that this trend had not been approved, so it is not proper to speak of a decrease in these green taxes but is to be raised, although it is not as much as planned by the former governments. It is wrong to say that climate is not priorities. In Iceland there has never been as much money as it is planned to take on measures to reduce emissions and contribute to the binding of carbon into soil and vegetation, the recovery of wetlands. To answer the question, for each percent of the higher carbon bills, the results have not been met. The Ministry is now in operation in a strategy to assess the degree to which certain measures will achieve and at the cost of greenhouse gas contractions. There's an enormous deal, like a sledgehammer. A senator came in, dealing with the truck fleet. There will be special emphasis on both continuing to strengthen the built - in infrastructure and then making it easier for people to take advantage of these benefits to a much greater degree. I'm pretty optimistic about this transition taking more time than we've considered so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u158	A respectable president. V.E.G. Environment Minister. Following the above discussion, I would like to sharpen the minister's desire to slowly walk through the door of joy in terms of increasing increases in predestination taxes, as the carbon bill is. Ten percent of the two years in a row is really quick. I suppose I'll vote against the rise that year as I did in the December of that year. Just so there are some reasons why not everyone here agrees with us in this regard. In the present document for the council, a proposal for a financial plan for the years 2019-2023, there is one group that I think falls between a ship and a dock in a very prominent way, or perhaps not so prominently. Today, on the 110th anniversary of the State's forestry, forests appear four times on those almost 400 pages of the plan, once in agrienvironment schemes, and three times in the environmental and all over the subheadings. It seems to me that there's very little to find in this piece of paper in all of this as far as we're going to be able to make a good woodforestation from now on. The aim of the State's quadruples for four-fold increase is, as it was, not so much aggressive, to excuse the wording, as achieving that goal is only doubled from what it was before a crash. It is not as if humans are building some cloudlike city in that matter. I like the coverage of Snubbly when it comes to forestry. I would be interested in hearing the highest point of view. Minister as far as they're concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u159	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I can now make him happy because even though the word forestry occurs only four times before, there is more that will go to that party in the years to come than we have ever seen. However, the amount has not been accurately divided to lawsuits, which happen naturally when we work on the 2019 budget. But as a whole, we will approach this in the Ministry, which I think is very reasonable in taking the amount of money that will be intended for binding, i.e. in agriculture and forestry and shoveling in ditches, and trying to approach it in a complete way, where all these people are coming, they are based on land use programmes. It is quite clear that much of the amount intended to put in the climate situation is taking place in this case. It creates natural jobs in the country. We will achieve goals for more than just climate, goals that are also related to biodiversity and the healing of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u160	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. In this context, we will discuss income gains that focus on all the factors that are underlying on the spending side of this Senate resolution. Before I came up here, we talked about the carbon money. Are there more so-called green taxes to be considered in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Economics than we know today? If so, who are they? And of those whom we know today who are part of the wealth of state funds, whom are being considered for increase? I'm sorry to tell you that this 10% increase in carbon bill has been two times as often as possible. It would be interesting to hear the minister's answers in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u161	V.E.G. President. This is being examined by the Ministry of Economics in what way these matters can be held to the future in terms of carbon costs and automobile costs. It's now in reports that I think they've introduced in the open portal online. In addition to that, the natural innuendos we were agreeing to before the New Year's Eve and how to ensure that tax relics contribute to the continued growth of the automobile fleet toward environmental vehicles, which I think are extremely important to keep to the level. Then I believe that the share of these cars in taxes will increase as time passes. I have to admit, I don't exactly remember when it begins. It will also be considered whether to use the tax system when it comes to becoming organic waste that would result in a more reasonable price to continue using it in order to produce other valuables, such as fertilizer and so on. There is an opinion regarding the actions of the climate program, but it's not like I can tell exactly how much it is or how these ideas are. There's nothing further to discuss. However, there is no problem in informing that this is a matter of view.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u162	A respectable president. I want to have a conversation with the highest. Environment Minister on two factors and first intends to proceed with the changes in forestry. I welcome like the rest of us here this handsome increase in environment. I think it will bring us back in many ways. With regard to forestry and carbon costs, it may not be the correct statement that half of the pollution comes from automobiles. There's only 4% of total emissions coming from cars. That is why I ask: Is it not possible to equal the use of human vehicles immediately by placing what is collected from the carbon costs of forestry fuel? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister to how fast he can make some declarations about how much goes in the freshforest, I think it's very important that it can be done to prepare it. It is the fastest way to bind carbon, and forestry needs to be prepared for a considerable period of time. That's why there's a lot to do. And it's just like the highest. In his career, a minister said: "I've got a lot of work to do in the country. We have all the administrations in the forest industry, so it doesn't have to be built up. We have much of the research and knowledge. We already have a country planned. We have forest farmers who are ready to receive more plants. That's the two things. How soon can we see how much we are going to spend in forestry? It can't wait. [[The president calls.]] And can it not be done without carbon share right away with what it pays in carbon pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for good questions. It may be said that all of this simply depends on how things are looked, what's coming in, and what's going out. There is more funding in climate now combined over the next five years than this increase in carbon costs today, 2018, 2019, and 2020. Indeed, it will not all go to forestry, end with tremendous importance in reducing emissions by all means available in all sectors, and then it is, in effect, the rest that we should consider to be taking advantage of the opportunities of land healing, foresting, recovery of wetlands, and such measures. Thus, it may be difficult to answer the question, " Can I use the price in order to level all the traffic in carbon dioxide? ' Maybe you can say that, I don't know how the numbers are exactly, but I think we'll always have to get to this, so we can do a lot of action and forestry is certainly one of them. Regarding the green sector, it is very important to look for land healing and recovery to wetlands are measures that can be taken immediately. The recovery of wetlands is immediately effective because we are simply blocking the air, but it takes more time and effort. A senator pointed out about the forest industry. I'm assuming it's in the past this year, probably when we go to the budget, some suggestions on how this exchange will be exactly. But it is very important to have a good relationship with our institutions in this regard. I can't tell you exactly when it'll be ready, but we're working very hard on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u164	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and encourage him to work on this. The next thing I'd like to discuss is a plan for the establishment of a central national park in order to expand the peace description areas and the highest. A minister does not agree with me on the importance of building up the peace-created territory and the areas we have in some way managed first, putting emphasis on existing things, the things that have come about, that they are built up. It's always about a good deal with the locals. I'm going to name here three areas where our communities are pioneers in protecting. This is Kate Gepak, Smokenes Geopark, and the city of Jackion has entered Lake Bay. These are all areas where corporations are pioneers, and it is of great value to us that our rural communities call and share in this protection with us and build up in these areas in harmony with nature. These are all areas that need much building, are still in a particular business problem, and need to be organized, and we need to see how our territory is protected and how we welcome guests in a way that is pleasing. I think it's very important now at work to develop these areas well, to be sure they're working well, and we respect our rural communities that we stand with them in the building they call on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u165	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. A senator's concern about the importance of building and caring well for what we already have is immensely important. In this context, there is a reason for this. A senator specifically mentioned the geologic problems, that it is a contract between the Ministry and Kate the Earth, which I cannot quite remember when it was conducted, whether 2016 or 2017. I'm looking at the Ministry on how to get these matters to the future, for surely these rocks don't hear directly under the state, but it's very exciting to work with the rural communities on this as we have on nature offices. However, this also needs to be considered on the basis of the question of whether we expect many more funerals in other parts of the country and what this means as a whole. I can tell that right now in 2018, I especially stressed that money would be raised to the earth, e.g. in Southnes because of a ban, just to meet the challenges facing people to protect nature. In a general sense, over the next five years, we look at some 2.2 billion people, if I recall them correctly, are about to increase groundkeeping. It refers to a full - time guard as well as a part - time job. How exciting it will be to use this money to further the work of existing peace - torn areas! Then the natural government, as I originally knew, is committed to breaking down several areas that have not yet been declared peaceful, so the purpose of the interaction between them is that we can expand our jobs on land and increase our natural protection in the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u166	Mr. President. I thank the Environment Minister for setting out high environmental goals in Iceland for the next five years. Government contracts make it clear that national parks are not to be formed in the central highlands in agreement with a transnational panel and other organizations. Prime Minister, on the sentence of the present assembly, says, by permission of the president: A new government will highlight the central highland park and the peace descriptions of the areas that have already been placed into the reservation of protection. In addition, I sat with the representatives of all classes at a seminary on the state of the environment right before elections, where all gave it a chance to be just a great deal of a highland park. As I understand these promises and these transverse communities, everyone is very excited about the establishment of a reputable national park. However, because of this promise and cross - political reconciliation, I cut out for a detailed discussion of the central national park in a controlled program, which was not to be found. Therefore, I would like to ask the Environment Minister: Is the parapolitic will that appeared to be real to the park's establishment? Does Ministers, on the basis of the budget set out on the environmental issue, think that the establishment of a national park in the central highlands and the work that this institution contains is fully funded compared to an existing financial programme?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. I can honestly say that this transpiritian support is as good as ever. A senator said that he had been at the meeting just before the election - I don't know any better than he's still on the market. We're taking care of it, hopefully just next week, to appoint the committee, this transpolitic committee. Then she will begin her ministry. In fact, her role will be wide - wide, but it must be one of the suggestions on what the park should be, which should be the main means of entering it, what it may create a bill, a division into a reservation, and so on. So, before the final outcome, it is difficult to tell if the centenarian is very accurate about what is going to happen, as one of the committee's tasks is to determine how much money is needed. This is what's set out here. These are the first steps, so we can at least get going. I think it's a great pleasure to see it at once so that you can work on the progress of the project, as it were. A senator correctly described, one of the major issues the government is going to take during this terms of protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u168	President. I thank the Minister for these answers. In view of this, I was particularly concerned with the intention of a parapolitic team taking hold of the environment, not much later. Environmental issues have been surging the last few years where Iceland could and should be on the tip of environmental aims and follow-up. Another project that seemed to have an interpolitic stand this year was the validation of the Paris Convention, which contains progressive aims for dealing with the global ill state of climate. The Parliament, however, has had the privilege of choosing environmental guidelines that are convenient for us. For example, the decision was not to go through the validation of the Arose Convention to ensure membership of partners in environmental issues. It is clear that there is much work left to do in Iceland's international commitments to environmental agreements. While the Environment Minister is setting out a high objective and if all are willing to work well and with cross political support behind him, the Environment Minister is, unfortunately, not starting at zero point in this regard. We have a long way of reaching zero points, and a lot of work is left so that Iceland can be at the lead in international environmental matters. Therefore, I would like to complete my case by asking a minister of the environment: Is the budget for the seminar enough to achieve zero and when it comes to becoming a role model for other nations in environmental matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u169	Mr. President. What a pleasure it is to hear that there is a reason to rejoice! A senator agrees that it is a higher objective set by the government and for this party. I rejoice at the support I feel. A senator with that. The question of whether there is enough here is large and perhaps difficult to answer to. What we're looking at now, if we aim in 2017, is an increase of 35% in the environment, we haven't seen it before. It's kind of gonna be my answer today. A senator that it is not a bad start on the road we are going on right now to try to get this group to where it certainly needs to be. I hear that the senator will support me and others in trying to achieve that goal. But whether this amount is just enough, I'm going to give myself the luxury not to answer it by yes or no, but to point out that this is a significant increase in the case that has not been seen before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u170	A respectable president. I would like to begin with this discussion on the budget of 2019,2023, with the greatest contribution anticipated to the environmental issues. As noted in the case of a minister, at least three groups of subjects out of five spread their focus with members in nature protection and climate. In addition to climate, focus on protection, monitoring and building up the plant and soil resources is turning on and at the same time reducing carbon emissions and increasing its binding and thus supporting the objectives of Iceland in climate change. According to this, I intend to move to the forestry industry, as more members of the council have done before. I particularly welcome the words of a Minister that part of increased contributions to climate will go to forestry and be in that position to live up to the agreements made of wood farms, farmers who have already committed themselves to taking a certain portion of their land in their possession of deforestation. A country that is ready and has been planned and is, in fact, in line with existing land use programmes, as well as invested in a professional planning of the country by funding for the Forest. But to increase land quality by deforestation, agriculture and wetlands recovery, all of this requires preparation. I'm a little worried if the switch between these methods in the recovery of agricultural resources is not until the budget is fixed. So I ask: Is there any conversation with institutions and farmers who have to follow up on the project?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u171	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this suggestion that I think is very important. As I said before, I think it's extremely important that we watch these many goals when we're putting money in a group like the environment. That's when it's enormously important. A senator mentioned. When we put money in land transplants and forestry, we are also putting financial resources in climates and vice versa, no matter how much we want to look at them. However, I think it is extremely important that we do not view activities in nature protection, in agriculture and forestry, solely on climate goals because we are expected to look at our diverse goals. We should be proud that we are spending more than one objective or purpose in spending money. That's extremely important. In some cases, this is also a goal for extra outdoor care and so on. With regard to preparation and cooperation with the members who come to share the budget or to use the capital we put into this, I would like to say that this work is beginning at the Ministry, and that is fundamentally calling our institutions on matters, our land healing and wooding, to find this process. I can see that there's more money involved in the work that is already there. It's the easiest way to take advantage of them. A senator pointed out. On the one hand, I think this big-time funding is gonna give us a chance to watch more new projects. In the past 10 years, for example, we have seen the resulting Heklu Forest project. In the years that followed, there would be an additional work of such cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u172	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff and welcome the answers. I could keep talking about forestry for a long time, but I'd like to come on to more things. I welcome the emphasis on the growth of monitoring systems due to the natural year of the program. It also points to completion of six projections in above - water defenses during the period and is well effective. Of these, there are three ongoing tasks. But I would like to ask them if there is a timetable for what will take place at that end and how the priorities of such projects will be worked out and if further projects are to be started during this period. It's a dual. I then welcome an intervention plan to reduce plastic use and would like to have more information about where that plan is if there is any time. Finally, I'd like to introduce to you the importance of not increasing land control and especially the emphasis on full - wound protection. It is particularly important in remote areas where even a few tourists have passed through the winter. At the same time, I believe it is important that the guest rooms in such areas be open all year. Tourists may not always be able to run a full wound service in which tourists are still building traffic during the winter; yet, it is very important that tourists can obtain information, advice and guidance on travel in variable weathers as well as information on nature. It is then important that land management be thus organized that there are really no areas apart from the observation of the land, although the emphasis on national parks and nonviolent territory becomes the most important thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u173	Mr. President. With the last thing, the Marines, I'll join you with a what? A senator I believe is of utmost importance. Of course, we set our priorities for those areas of peace - torn, national parks, and this is a prerequisite, as it were, in order to keep a ban, even though some surface can be seen that people do not just look at the outlines of the peace country. I've been working as a groundkeeper myself. If you'd always thought that way, you might have done less good than you did hopefully. So I agree with that. For plastics, we've been working on the Ministry to put together where these issues are in general. I have emphasized that we need to base on research, e.g. For the microplastic, where it comes from, and how it reaches to the sea. I'd also like to mention that I would like to see more emphasis on innovation in order to create new ways to replace the plastic and especially the disposable plastic. I'm expecting plans to see the light of the day as soon as possible in the months to come. For the alarm, it is quite true that at the end of the year, a continuation of the use of funding for research was adopted. However, there is no increase in the budget to be included in this five - year period, which is now beginning from what we have been, so we expect that the three projects that we will have to complete will be completed and will attack three new ones. Whether you can do better than you can, you will have to find out how you make the money that will be used in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u174	A respectable president. We are discussing a proposal for a hearing about the government's budget of 2019-2023, and now we are speaking in particular of factors that are at the highest level. Environment Minister. Of course, there are a few things I'm interested in in in the Supreme Issues. Minister. The Ministry's topic areas are several, nature protection, deforestation, land transplants, research and monitoring of Iceland's nature, waste management, nature cover, as well as the administration itself, but I want to be like some other members of Congress to mention a few things and start with the forest industry. This thick book in which proposals for action are presented very little about forestry and no target in the section on this, no target for forestry. I miss the fact that no goals are set. In recent years, deforestation, i.e. The plants, they cut back year after year. Three million trees are now being planted each year, a significant decrease in plant size ten years ago. Like we really took our hands together from 1990 to expand forestry. Now it's just getting better and that's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will a minister use himself to expand forestry, or will he make it happen on his watch that the raising of trees falls off, and then when the work has to be resumed, that much knowledge has been lost or lost? I just point out that it takes a few years to prepare for the effort. The force is now, and it will not later be kind enough to come together in these matters. Another question I'm going to ask him is the establishment of a national park in the highlands of the West. I'm going to ask him if he's already given up on this left-green goal, if left greens have given up building a national park in the unscrupulous western highlands of the West.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. I think we may be, in view of how many people have been involved in forestry matters, a little looking forward to missing the frequency of forestry in the program, or miss seeing that the exact extent of the forestry is being foretold. The nature of policy as set out in a financial program is not to say that X million are going on a particular project. I've said it today, and I'm kind and obliged to say again that there's a plan to place extra funds for agriculture and forestry and the recovery of wetlands. They're working at the Ministry now to see how it will be carefully implemented, how much will go on in each of these different important measures. So I can't agree with that word. A senator said that the forest industry will hatch over the years according to the programs that can be seen in a financial program, and I can't understand how to actually read it out. It's just mine to explain it better here and now, and, of course, I'm happy to do it, and I hope I can convince you why. That's what a senator's got to do with it. Regarding the second question about the establishment of a park on the beach, it was not one of the points laid down in a government covenant. VG has not given any particular issue, but it has also not been discussed as yet, if it is to be attacked, it must also be determined by professionals in the Ministry institutions, so we may have to see what comes out of it as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u176	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for his answers. Regarding forestry, the question is not that the word forestry appears in this thick book. It's not at all a question of it, I wasn't talking about it. I missed goals in forestry, goals, and goals, that was what I meant. For the establishment of a national park in the highlands of the West, it's obvious what I'm looking for, I'm looking for, if left greens really will put it on their watch in the government under their leadership, that the Whale in Unifiversity will be activated by all the disorders that take place regarding that activation, if it goes into effect. Is that why they do not use themselves to establish this supposed national park? There are more questions here. I'd like to address a matter that involves waste management and would like to ask the highest level. Minister on his position on plastic use. What will his party do in this regard? I've read the book thick in this respect until now and there's a plastic action plan. I want to see what that is. How will a minister prevent or reduce ever - increasing plastic use, resulting in excessive pollution in the ocean and threats to the life of the sea on which we rest our lives? How? Will he do so by taxing common plastic usage, e.g. plastic bag use? A taxation rate? Will he ban the use of e.g. plastic bags, as suggested earlier at the council? Or subsidies on the use of other solutions? Just get a little more on this. How do you do this? Another thing I was going to talk about, too, and maybe have a few seconds to do that, about the recovery of wetlands. Will Ministers support and support the establishment of a wetlands fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u177	Mr. President. Wait a minute. I'm sorry if I misjudged the person I've heard, so this is the result. I welcome the senator's interest in forming a park on the beach. How important it is to feel that support! As I said earlier, it has not been taken into consideration in the government, but in the case of the Whale River itself and its activation, it is the fundamental issue that is naturally in the hands of the rural government as it is today. It's been a long time. However, the park's establishment is not in the hands of the local government, that would be in the hands of the Commission and/or the Council. In the case of waste management, it is correct that this is a procedure to implement the current EEA strategy for implementing the current programme. It will highlight the terms of the government covenant, as it were. A senator came in. I specifically highlight the cycle economy, that we can use the waste as a resource, and maybe it's easier to point to the organic waste. There I think we really need to consider whether or not we want to tax the threat of organic waste so that it can be used as the resource it really is, and we're done with organic waste. It's just a misdirected resource that we're supposed to use for food. New birth is a key factor in this, as in plastic. We're looking at the Ministry what other routes have been involved in taxation or bans. The apparent success in this situation varies. Then the senator came back to the recovery of wetlands, and I support all the good ideas about such things, and what he specifically mentioned, I think, is a very exciting and exciting project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u178	Mr. President. I'm going to start by expressing my joy at the top. A minister makes a trip to the country to join us in the discussion. Then I'd like to use my first chance here to ask a minister about the news that the National Protection Act of the Organization has been charged with reforming the Þingalva Road. It was intended to be accomplished in the fall. In fact, history is long and harsh, and the result is that the road is breaking down. It is crumbling down from the ever - increasing traffic, especially in large vehicles. He's actually become dangerous to people, nature. A national disaster is the word that is used to describe the situation in this way in this pearl of our Icelanders. I'm going back to February 16th. Then the Organization announced a decision that this 9 km section of Þingval Road should not be subject to environmental assessment. A decision was made to the Environment and Resource Commission. It was due on March 23rd. On that day, my dear Land Guard came in, where it is required that the decision be canceled - the Supreme Court. Ministers know of this - and the improvements in the road - will be stopped while the case is being carried out by a ruling committee. The decision was based, among other things, on the reviews of various parties, where no comments were made on the project. There are two things that sting into the eyes. On the one hand, this is a restoration, not a new project, and it has not happened before to me knowing that such restoration is taking place in environmental evaluations, it has been a new development. Then there is another issue: These planned projects have been placed in public evidence for a long time, and this would have hurried the case if the charges had been made earlier. I ask, in view of the ambitious aims set out, including the prevention of damage to nature by tourism: Does the minister of this charges think that the good for the group he now directs?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u179	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his input. This sounds like I'm living abroad because I made a trip to come here. But it's not like that at all. I'm kind of in Iceland all the time. I'm trying to fly as little as I can. I don't know much about this case as a question. A senator mentioned it unless I saw it on the news, whether it was yesterday or today, and I have not read any more about it, on the basis of exactly this charge is presented. But it's quite clear that the court is there, we don't argue about it. Hv. A senator also points to the time when this will take place in the process. In fact, I don't think that the charges themselves could have been made at any other time in the process, that's how the law is, and that's how the European directives are. Whether the charge is good, I find it very difficult to express myself about someone who has not studied the matter more than just read it in the media. What I know about this matter in general, however, is what I have heard from the Parliamentary Committee after I became a minister. It's like a snooze. A senator described, being trying to cope with a situation that has become very serious. The descriptions I've heard about them are that they should break the road, try to make it as good as possible to land, and so forth. I'm sorry, but I can't answer this in any way other than the general situation today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u180	Mr. President. Thank you. Come on in a little bit like that, at least on the ground below. One of the main challenges in the environmental category is to ensure that the use of land is sustainable, including increasing stress, as the number of tourists returning home is growing. One of the goals related to this challenge, as reflected in the plan, is that by 223, 95% of the target areas in the environment are under pressure. The question is, How is this achieved because the fact is true, and it also comes out in the plan, that when you ask about the 2017 position, it says, "The situation is unknown, or rather the status is unknown." But we do, in fact, know that the situation is in many parts of the wild West. This is in effect expressed in text with these targets, where it is said that to maximise the value of long - term travel services, it is necessary to protect the country and its natural environment by means of controlled direction. The use of economic instruments, such as the provision of special releases or deposit on particularly vulnerable areas, may be considered in order to reduce appeal. This management process is considered a lot - natural - but then, in another part of the budget, because it's a financial program, and they're talking about reimbursement in travel services, due to its comings. I think I'm right, since coming at airports doesn't control the access of our natural bulbs, at least not that nature protection comes first. I'm wondering about these chapters, where they're talking about coming in travel service. And I ask because there is no other question than to ask here, the answers aren't really available, there's always looking at things: is there been talk of arrivals in tourism and then special fees in certain other places? Or do they speak ministers who have this tribe in different directions?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u181	V.E.G. President. As a result of the fact that this is not yet being done, the assessment at the tourist facility has given rise to the point that the assessment is being made. Of course, we know that the situation is very bad. Therefore, we also have a national, national, environmental, environmental, and cultural development programme. The amount of money has already been spent this year and, in fact, for the next two years at a priority level. But this assessment, if I recall correctly, of a model from Norway, is designed to be able, in general, to examine the situation everywhere in these areas. So it's been considering that at the end of the plan, we've had an evaluation of this for a lot of areas, whether 90 or 95%, I don't remember exactly what it is. In terms of remuneration, a travel minister's opinion of how this is best considered. It has been noted that regardless of how much we look at it, there is a return or exorbitant fee. There are, of course, special fees. There's something in part under my ministry, which is what's in the peaceful zones. For example, expenses are taken in a Þingalva National Park, and they are also begun in the Lake Earth like a dog. I'm sure a senator knows a lot about him. So we're trying to cross this whole thing. But there has been no debate over the loss of these special fees, as these are actually fees for services being performed in the area, so they may be a little different. [[The president calls.]] At least I'll look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u182	A respectable president. I thank you for this fine discussion and good answers to the top. Minister. I'd like to state, though, before you think any further, that the environment is not all about forestry. It is also certainly about forestry, not just forestry and environment; nor is it merely about the interests of the people. Business matters are not even about the environment. An environmental issue is primarily about the future of life on earth and what we will do to contribute to the continuation of life on earth. The government's financial program says that the next year's carbon charge should be raised by about 10% and then by another 10%. This increase will not be sufficient for Iceland to live up to its commitments under the Paris Convention. It should be noted that the rise in transport greenhouse gas emissions is a major reason why Iceland will not be able to live up to its commitment during the second Kyoto Protocol period of 2013◯2020. Also, it should not be forgotten that transport emissions of greenhouse gases are about half the emissions that will be reduced by up to 40% by the year 2030 when the first commitment period of the Paris Convention ends. We hear more and more talk about the government's contribution to Iceland's non-carbon shares in the year 2040, but no matter how far Iceland is going to meet its commitments in 2030. The aim of noncarbonization in 2040 is certainly ambitious and noble, but it will not be achieved without significant reduction in emissions by 2030. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Will you be under attack to look at these issues in general and in particular on transportation, how are transportation affected, and how do you view transport from the climate? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u183	Mr. President. Thank you. To begin with, a senator deeply agrees that the environment is not just forestry; it can be seen very well in the broad range of issues involved in this topic. The answer is yes, it's the meaning of trying to take a whole thing on the climate issues, of course. This means that we have a goal in 2030 under the Paris Convention, and we have the goal that the government makes independent of the international commitment to noncarbonization in the year 2040. It is very important that these two goals work together. We are now working on a strategy to address these issues regarding commitments of 2030 and are actually starting the first steps of noncarbonization. Of course, it will take some time to bring it up, this is what came in new. But I agree with what. A senator's main concern is to reduce emissions, followed by the following, to reduce their emissions. The tie and all. However, the binding must begin immediately because it takes time. Especially for the noncarbon goals, it is important that it be able to work for us as soon as possible. What we see in the budget is natural evidence, or not evidence, but evidence that we are going to set the budget straight in starting both of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u184	A respectable president. Thank you for a good answer. I realize it's on the edge of this subject and where the council is involved. We saw this talk yesterday. Chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, Bergþór Ólason, and speak against public transportation. These are the endemic attitudes we face. Now I'm trying to hurry because I'm running out of time. In the end, I want to step aside from the affairs of the sea. It is discussed here and there on the marine issues of a financial agenda, but I still feel a little vague yet whether it is expected that the government will shape a comprehensive policy on this important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u185	V.E.G. President. As to what is involved in the oceans and my Ministry, it may be that there are aspects of biodiversity, plastic matter, spillage, and so forth. Some of these are mentioned specifically in a government covenant, perhaps not. But it is clear that we are looking into the wastewaters later in the terms of how to deal specifically with them. It also has to do with the introduction of new initiatives from the European Union. For plastics, I've declared earlier today that they're being addressed. When it comes to the protection of biological diversity, there is also a difference. Entering international negotiations. Looks like time's up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u186	A respectable president. I'd like to start by spending my precious time only in thanking the Minister for coming to us. It's a good example. Not all ministers would have changed their panels to attend this discussion, so I thank the Minister. May others imitate him in setting priorities for the council. There are a number of things in this financial program that, of course, can be discussed when it comes to the Ministry. Minister. It may be possible to debate whether the increase in money is sufficient, some feel that it is not in harmony with statements made and the expectations that many have. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to specific items of the plan. It's even here. Talk about a central nation park several times. What effect is the highest. Minister that the institution of such a park applies, e.g. resource use within the park? The park is quite large, and it's a good thing to say. What I'm wondering is the impact on resource use within the park. I'd like to ask the highest, too. A minister of the second plan, on pages 18 - 20. 83, to 17 current environmental events by permission of the President: ▪ The main spending changes in the topic field include measures to ensure sustainable implementation of the land, including With increased stress for the growth of tourists I'm only wondering how to ensure that the innovation of the country is sustainable in view of this phrase that I read and as soon as I'm wondering if it's any part of the country and then what the effect of the ideas of ensuring that the use of land is sustainable in Icelandic agriculture. Then, too, there is a bill to set up marine and coastal systems. So I celebrated a bill, but I wondered about the role of the locals. [[The president calls.]] There are mainly two previous questions that I wanted to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u187	Mr. President. Hv. Senator, thank you for your input. You can choose me as an excellent minister if you want, I'm prepared for that. [[To the point of competition and...]] Hohoho. Well, it's nice to be able to joke, too. For a central nation park and its impact on resource use, I would like to start by saying that a large part of the central population is actually already being declared peaceful and the way that has taken place in the peace-infested areas is that there is a wide cooperation between the locals, environmental groups, outings, and tourism on how the use is to take place. I think the best thing to say is that centrally highland parks have a great opportunity for especially the more scattered settlements in which there are no national parks and a request for a study conducted at the Snæfells of a nation park that showed that it was returning about 3.9 billion per year according to that study and that 1.8 would remain in the area itself. It's very close to Reykjavík. As we move away from Reykjavík, I assume there would be more stayings in contact with the park and so on. Hv. A senator also mentions the sustainable use of a country. This refers specifically to tourism, but also to sustainable use of plant and soil resources, which will certainly enter agriculture. There are two goals that take special action in the program. In the Member State's sustainable use of land in terms of vegetation and soil resources, the Agency is working to co-operate the State and the Sheep's Land Service to create a system to assess the situation. [[The president calls.]] That's what this means. I can come into it better in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u188	A respectable president. I'm worried I might have a minister's heel a little too much. Now, I would like to ask further questions: If we create a central national park, it will prevent energy efficiency from being used within the park, i.e. use Fallwater or earth's heat? Then I would like to ask what is on the page. 273 on vision and primary objective. It says, by permission of the president: Instead, changing land use took decisive steps to meet the objectives of the nation's noncarbonization in the year 2040. Is that where they're talking about wetlands, i.e. digging into the ditches and fighting against what was done here some years ago, i.e. ... tostarttheland? Is it the thought of changing land use? I would also like to ask, "What is the claim that wetlands are so bad? " Is there enough research on this claim that has been made here many times? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u189	Mr. President. With regard to the first question, most national parks that are founded on resource use are thus taking place that the use of it is negative or unacceptable or causes them to lose their protection in one way or another is not usually an attack on such projects within them. However, there would probably be nothing to be done about it, since it is likely to be for some time. And time goes by. For the modified land use, land healing, forestry, and wetlands are being referred. There are the most advanced wetlands that farmers do not use today, both in government and in private property as well. There are tremendous opportunities to work on climate issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u190	A respectable president. I'm going to start by spending my time complaining about the words of a respected president earlier about the fact that a minister is so rarely in the hall. I'm simply going to say it's not true. V.E.G. There's always a minister here when they're talking about him, unlike some other stewards. Only through financial programmes. This financial program, in relation to previous financial programmes, has taken away some of the greenhouse gas targets and standards, e.g. For transport, where emissions were to be reduced from 1990, there is no longer the current financial agenda. The transport service was to include a set of total greenhouse gas emissions that are no longer available, and emissions at the regional level of 4, 5, 6, 7, 12, 15 and 17, but not others, which might be interesting to see greenhouse gas emissions targets, such as. Travel that was there before it is not now. I wondered, " Is this really appropriate for environmental policies? ' Whether this should enter other fields too. V.E.G. Minister mentioned numbers of e.g. The landguard, 2.2 billion and the central population, 1.3 billion, which I expect to be the sum of the total, would then translate 440 million a year into a field guard, and 260 million years into a central highland park at the end of a financial program. That is 700 million years, and it will explain the 2,3 billion each year, which is the increase from the number 2019. Because in the policy programme it is to explain how it complies with the policy objective of earning and paying. The process of earning plus 3 billion is developed from the beginning of financial programmes to the end of financial planning without actually explaining what the other and these goals are cost. I'm glad I saw and heard numbers from the highest. Ministers but miss seeing them in financial programs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u191	Mr. President. That's right, it's an accumulated figure that's what we're talking about. A senator refers to him. To discuss this further, over the five years 7.5 billion congregations are expected to be included in what is commonly called nature protection. There are 4 billion structures of wood, monitoring, professional knowledge, and so forth, 2.2 billion for land protection 1.3 billion for national parks in the middle of the country. So that's what's accumulated. Regarding questions related to the climate crisis, it can be said that the plan of action mentioned in the budget should be implemented in 2019 C.E. We're going to get her to work sooner. In fact, this is all happening, so the financial agenda itself is being reduced and simplified. But, of course, it's all part of the Ministry Action Programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u192	A respectable president. It is good to know that we will have this strategy, but in the meantime, we must accept a financial plan without really knowing what the money is going to do. That's too bad. So I'd like to see a little more detailed analysis, although it's inaccurate inaccurate, about the costs of the other and the financial projects that are not here, but the highest. A minister bringeth her in a parable, which is then for the better. There has been a lot of talk about forestry, and I want to add to that environmental assessment of forestry. As far as I know, we don't need the environmental assessment of deforestation until the size of a forested area exceeds a fixed limit, and it's a good idea that it will never exceed that maximum. That's a reference. Is this really too high, then, if all forests can be placed in the country without ever going to environmental assessment?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u193	Mr. President. That's a point of view. A senator mentions, if I recall correctly, 200 acres. The criteria for all the elements included in the Annex on environmental impact assessment will be considered in a published global review of the code. In many ways, the criteria are difficult to handle, first of all, e.g. where they should lie. Second, it always offers the danger of being organized so that they are within the bounds. I don't think it's always that way, though. The environmental impacts of various projects are often assessed, and not only those that are always required for food, but also for those assigned to the Organization or to the rural community.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u194	Mr. President. What a precious opportunity this is to discuss the environment at the highest! Environment Minister, and I'd like to thank him for the answers he's made today. There's a lot of things to take, Mr. President, so you have to choose from. I'm gonna mention a few things, and I'm expecting to come back here. This time I'm gonna name two. On the one hand, I'm going to mention the proposed activation of the Whale River. I had the opportunity to direct an unprepared inquiry to the highest level. The prime minister on this matter, under the premise that this is, of course, a policy in the government, which states that there will be a national park in the central highlands. A policy of prime minister and environmental minister, as far as I know, is required to set up national parks in the central highlands and in the high areas of the West. Of course, this is a noble course, and it should be respected and thanked. The answers made by the minister here are too busy, and they appeared in the reply of a prime minister so that they do not surprise me. It's that the case is in the hands of local local government. In this case, there are two types of interest. On the one hand, nature's interests are protected, here is an uninhabited region that is in grave danger, and I remind you of very serious comments from the Organization, and on the other hand, a question is asked on behalf of those who want to activate it on the delivery safety of electricity. I remind you of the articles of Snorri Baldursson, which I believe are very familiar with the Environment Minister, as he points out that only 51⁄210% of the electrical problem involved would be solved by this activation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is a minister willing to take advantage of talking with the local government about the possibility of peace between these expansions and tombs that will be released there in the nafn of the ríkisstjórn of Catherine Jacob's daughter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u195	The President reminds the senators to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u196	Mr. President. It's always good when the blood starts to flow. What I want to say is what I want to say. A senator is especially responsible for this, of course, the interests of nature are at stake, but more so are the local interests. It might be noted that for the rural community, interests are concealed in both ideas, perhaps, national parks, and activation. These are different interests. The rural society has pointed out that if it does, it will bring in certain incomes. Similarly, it has been pointed out that a park would probably also come into the countryside. But that hasn't been investigated, unfortunately. I think it would be most desirable as a first step to consider the possibilities involved. The Treaty states that potential for further national parks will be investigated. It is quite clear, however, that this activation was accepted at the time for a framework of the strategy. Thus, the matter was actually out of the council and is placed in the territory where the government is to decide whether or not there will be action. We now have organizational adjustments. They haven't been taken care of. I just want to agree with the senator that I believe that there is a very valuable area, a vast range of values that are desirable to the Westerners, as well as to all of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u197	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer, I can't say I'm pleased with that. I didn't hear anything from the highest. Ministers on how he would be prepared to use himself in the interest of nature protection, nothing. It is best for the minister to understand that the aims of life and life are making money. That was the only thing that came out of the minister. I do not question a good mind and a good will, but I must allow myself to be told by a high-rate environmental minister to take the lead in the affairs of the environment in Iceland. I'm just going to consider another matter that I've allowed myself to record at the World Council on the subject of a queries system. I have produced a number of inquirys to help protect the water, especially in the capital area. There's a lot of toxins being driven over Sandspan and Hellishek. We have soil transport here, and toxic substances from Hellishe activation are being pumped. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I just want to let myself bring these requests to my attention and expect the benefit of a minister. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to ask you to follow a question from my partner. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason what a minister is willing to do to support the wetlands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u198	Mr. President. To eliminate any doubt, the person being present is, of course, a review of all possibilities for the establishment of national parks, especially in this area that is discussed here, so that it is completely clear. Regarding the wetlands, I may not have been able to answer it well enough because of the time, but I can declare that I have had a conversation with the head of the fund. If I'm not mistaken, it's set up, but I'm not quite ready or it's about to happen. One of the Ministry's institutions, land transplants, has been very important to this matter, and I've been in constant contact with them on that matter. It is to expect support through land healing at the wetlands fund. Regarding the exact approach of the Ministry I have to ask for a little patience from the question. A senator, but I can tell you that these matters are all for consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u199	Mr. President. I'd like to direct a few questions to the highest level. Environment Minister. It is totally aimless on the part of the government in the long term; it is a matter of decision-making when it comes to reimbursement of travel services and harmonizing tourism with other sectors. Last Parliament had suggestions, including The restoration, in that case. All right, we're going somewhere else, but it's just a long worm. There are no decisions on the government. I have to say, for the sake of a travel minister, it is quite clear that no decisions will be made until possibly 2019 or 2020. Who's going to take it? In the environment, in nature. They're most concerned. Minister of the environment to share with me. As long as this inactivity and failure of the government is involved in the payment of travel services, I must ask: Has the highest power. In the national parks and in the parks to build them up, do environmental ministers intend to pay for their wages? I don't see anywhere in the plan. Clearly, the financial resources that are not enough to build up the existing national parks, let alone show up in an ambitious way as to possible highland parks. The first question is: Is there a possible payment into the parks? There are a lot of money in the agricultural contracts that are going to build agriculture in the country, and I think that part of the agricultural opportunities is looking more closely to how we too can develop environmental protection and protection. So, secondly, I ask, will he, as environmental minister, now have a review of the domestic agreements that the environmental protection, the land culture, will be implemented systematically into the domestic agreement at present?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u200	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the good advice. I'd like to first point out that more funding is coming into this category, and a very large part of it goes into the structure of wood, monitoring, and research there, and I'm delighted to hear it very much. Of course I would take more, that's what I'll say. Senator. There is already a currency in the Þingvall nation park, and it is also begun at a Lake Earth park, which is said to be in Skaftund. I think I'll handle it correctly when I say it's planned for the summer, too, with the glacier. There is a record of reimbursement in the national parks that have not been discussed with a retraction. You can clearly access the funds associated with a service. They pay to pitch their tent, to use a toilet stand, or to park their car, just as it was paid in the city. In terms of the domestic agreements of the Environment Ministry, a representative of the Review Committee, appointed in the days by marine emissary and agricultural ministers. One of the points I highlight is that we try to work on greening our livestock contracts as much as possible. Here are some ideas that could be discussed in more detail, but one of them is about payment, which involves some of the land - healing projects and forestry that could be introduced as another kind of project for farmers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u201	Mr. President. I want to take the question further. Very much. As long as there is no other capital in income gain, a minister will use it to take out more money in both national and nature - related nationalities? It would be to protect nature and expand our ministry. We know that what is now being done about the service fees on the Þingles and other locations as the highest. A minister would not be sufficient to build up or to protect nature, especially for operating. The other question is completely different. Let's go west on the pine, and we'll also go east on the pine; this is related to the food fire risk. We want to build a fishery in a responsible way, and I see this as a future job, it's already started, and I see it as one of our basics, but it has to be based on the risk assessment. With certain doubts, I am quite afraid that an EEC will need strength and support from the council and from the government will not be given enough money to live up to a responsible risk assessment. [[The president calls.]] Very much. A minister will make sure that such funds will be guaranteed so that the industry can continue to build itself up responsibly? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u202	Mr. President. Today, there is an opinion in a Lake Earth park where to pay expenses. As I mentioned, it is already done in Skaft falls, and it is being examined for the glacier. I'd like to monitor what comes out of it before I start to put into particular the fact that this will be done, but I think it's very important that the funds that are now being added to this category become very useful. But there is a great need, and I am very aware of it. Some places, however, are still impossible to obtain, since parking lots or toilets are less than in the peace-installed area. Hence, there is also a need to direct funding. In terms of the risk assessment in the fishery, I'm not clear how much money is put into it, but I certainly support that we put that risk assessment to a very important end. [[The president calls.]] I think there's some essentials there that need to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u203	A respectable president. During the next five years, the goal is to spend some 327 billion dollars. to the sector that is exposed to the transport and rural government, which is a topic area 6 in part and 8 and 11, less than 7.4% of the budget. The increase from budgets for the current year and the 2019 budget is about 7.8%. With regard to transport, it is a significant step toward entering now, more than has been seen for many years. For example, there is an increase of about 25% between the 2016 budget and 2018, which resulted in a significant increase in budgets for the current year. As soon as the next year, 4.3 billion will be added, a total of 43 billion. spend time on transportation and communication in the years to come. In the next three years, the target is about 16.5 billion, i.e. 5.5 billion a year for the next three years. In many areas there is a great need for reform, despite the fact that much money is spent on transportation and maintenance. As the summer draws closer, it has been found that conditions are even worse than those expected after a very adverse winter for the roads of the country. I will emphasize immediate action. The problem grows every day. It is important to protect the valuables found in the road system and to ensure the safety of road users. The current strategy will be submitted to the General Assembly for the next fall. It will be the nature of a case according to a financial plan. During the past few weeks, the transport strategy has used national angles to hear the emphasis and priorities of the local people. Among the urgent transport projects are the reduction of single - build bridges, double roads, tunnels, and new bridges. Then a new Western island will be put in use in the fall and carried out on animal tunnels will be successful and will be completed during the financial programme. Furthermore, negotiations over the government's takeover of the Hagular tunnel are under way. It is expected to be in the autumn months and to be suspended simultaneously. In addition, over the next few years, increasing the share of public transport will be involved in reducing the share of greenhouse gas emissions from transport. At that time, financial programs are expected to increase the budget for maintenance at airports within the country, while intensive international transport contributes to the development of urban development and support of sectoral activities across the country. We are also considering ways to improve the total domestic flight. The challenge is to secure the management ground of the flying system and to increase maintenance, while new projects have been turned aside and landing sites have been closed. That trend has to go back. Transport safety is a heart issue that I have stressed in transport programmes and financial programmes aimed at reducing all transport accidents. In terms of the development program, the Council has been submitted, and hopefully will be recommended next week, a synopsis proposal for a new development strategy for 2018-2024. Work on the plan has included much more extensive consultations than ever before. It has been an open-label consultation on the website, but it has also been specifically consulted with members of the general body, part of a rural society, all the Ministry, and certain institutions. The European Environment Agency will continue to work through a regional strategy to match the country's habitat conditions, including the United States of America. on electronic and telecommunications issues. It must be done to strengthen the democracies of the inhabitants in decision-making through the national parish program. It will then be emphasized to map the national access to public and private services to improve perspective and thereby provide a basis for action to provide the inhabitants with services and costs. Budgeting continues to be added to last year's budget. In this way, financial resources will be inhabited by some 790 million dollars. K. more than was planned in a current financial program. With regard to the national initiative of Iceland, light-related activities have been under way and have resulted in an increase in local fiber systems. It is estimated that it will be completed in 2020. Ninety-nine.9% of homes will then become direct optic cables. The successful development of telecommunications through decades, especially in recent years, has resulted in the success of Iceland's becoming a world-wide source of communication and information technology on the World Radioactive Association scale in 2017. It has played into active competition, high investments, and considerable innovations that identify the countries that will be placed in the top seat of the list, as well as the equalitarian celebrations that we have stressed. We may be proud of many things we have done, but in the work of the Ministry, we also face major challenges ahead of which we face. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u204	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The secretary of transportation and rural management for his input today, although it is certainly possible to consider all the expenses of his field to the next five years in such a short period of time as we are given here. The Government Treaty highlights transport and environment. It says, by permission of the president: The government wants to do better than the Paris Convention assumes and heads for Iceland's nothing of carbon at the latest in 2040. A cutoff of carbon will be achieved by permanent reductions in greenhouse gas emissions In that case, the board of directors claims that they're going to evaluate all larger programmes from climate targets. Finally, the Treaty shows that public transportation throughout the country and that city lines will continue to be supported in cooperation with rural society in the capital area. In view of this government contract presented last December or four months ago, it is surprising that in the section on transport, which is, for the next five years, the government policy of transportation, no additional funds are expected in public transport. Only once do we mention the huge task of the city line, saying that there is a willingness to cooperate with rural areas in the capital area around the city line and other projects in the area. And now, listen carefully:...it will be a speech campaign this year. This is the four - month - long - long discussion: for support. Intensification of national transport throughout the country is absolutely essential if greenhouse gas emissions are reduced. This is the greatest challenge to every government. Since there's nothing about public transportation in another part of my financial plan, I ask the highest level. Minister: Is the matter of government perhaps lost? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u205	A respectable president. We're discussing a financial program, which is a large box around 34 topic areas. That's right. That's right. A member of the Ministry is made up of a number of tasks under this topic. It's certainly about public transportation in chapter 11 of the topic area. Transport and communications. We've been working on quite a few things there, not only to establish new agreements with the national components but also to the task of the capital area involved in the city line. As the entire U.S. Senate knows, there is an election for local government in spring. So the project has not gone beyond that, so it is reasonable to have discussions with rural areas in the capital area about the establishment of the government. There I can simply say that we have a very positive attitude toward it, as we wrote it in the government covenant. We are also very positive about strengthening the support of public transportation around the country. And what happened next was true. To achieve our climate goals, a senator needs to include to increase public transportation, but also improve the roads. Good roads that can be driven through on smaller cars with new energy sources also save carbon emissions. There are many things we are doing in this regard about the climate and how we can fulfill both the government covenant and the goals we have set for ourselves. In this way we set the climate goals mentioned in this chapter, and I considered them only in my introduction that in a transport program, we need to consider them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u206	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, however, is somehow like the chapter on transportation and public transportation that I make up here for a discussion, as that chapter is in a financial programme. It is to me and others who are concerned with climate disappointments to see that the government of the left movement gives the offer almost easy when it comes to public transportation. It's not enough, as mentioned in the talk of the Supreme Court. Minister, to say that in the coming years, the plan is to advance public transportation without even a glimpse of it or to place some real money in it. I'm not gonna reduce the will of the highest. A minister to correct strictly dangerous roads. Not at all. I would like to encourage him there to face the conditions of the country below all caves. The safety of roadfarers is not guaranteed. But when the budget is examined, which is a plan, and yet a very important government policy and shows what the government is going to do in these matters, when we consider this government's document, we can only see no evidence that public transport is being taken into account in any of these matters. Of course, I want to be reasonable and happy that it's decided to ride bicycles all over the country. I think it's not only environmental stuff but also public health. But that is simply not enough, not close to being enough. That's not good enough, chief. Minister, to come here and say that we're going to discuss things when the project is as urgent as we see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u207	A respectable president. I agree with what. In both the construction of the road system and how we deal with our climate goals, we need to meet the challenge. There, public transportation is a very strong part of it. What are we doing today? I guess we have about 2 billion around the flight we're using to make sure that a flight could be public transportation. We have ideas upstairs to increase the support there, as I entered into my case. The Scottish way I know that many senators know each other has been discussed. In the national, national, or public transport, that supports public transportation, we are probably today with about 1.2 billion. Today in this frame, there are over 3 billion people who go to public transport. I'm describing my will to take the step further. As a result, in our covenant, both the budget and our cooperation with the government are telling us that we are going to do so. That's the way we're working. In a transport program, we are working on just how we are involved, for example. can integrate public transport and look at countries that may have done what is best, such as. Find that with new laws have gone very far in integrating this possibility, that people can go to one kind of public transportation, whether by flight or by ferry, and then go straight into the bus next. It is the way we need to rethink this system so that it will use people to get from place A to B even if they have to go between systems. This work is very meaningful. This financial program supports us to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u208	A respectable president. I'm here to discuss a transport proposal to conspire with regard to financial programmes for the 2019-2023 years. It's like the highest. A minister may have noticed, but it is not certain that the person here has expressed considerable disappointment in the funding of transport. I think that the lines set in the budget must mean that the government will look forward to further financing in one way or another and that it will be used for further funding. I don't think it's going to be okay with the position that we now have and that it's not going to be working faster than possible with the financial resources that are listed in the currently existing financial programme. 16.5 billion more are certainly from what is now. Nevertheless, they make up only a little more than just a little bit of money making up for the funding of the already existing transport program since 2017,2018. V.E.G. In this context, a minister has reasoned that if a person goes into bankruptcy, he will be on his way only where there are other ways to go, as they say. I would be interested in hearing the highest point of view. A minister in this regard, as far as he can envision, perhaps some example. This, of course, is a thing of enormous importance to both the potential human beings as an addition to the funds listed here. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to review this, in terms of the ability of another route. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u209	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions. I agree with what. A senator says that the amount of money we are putting in this will not solve the problem. However, they are significant, considering that in the past 20 years there are only two years, 2008 and 2009, where people have put more money in this building than in the next three years. The five years in the budget are with us in the years we've been doing what we've been doing, but it's no use, I agree with that. That's what a senator does. As a result, in the next three years, we are talking about the sheer degree of 70,75 billion in all of this team, construction, and maintenance of the road to Vega. That certainly is a lot of money. But with regard to the ideas I've talked positive about over the past few weeks and months, because the project is huge, it's a good idea. We have had the goal of speeding up specific projects that would be considered only after five or ten years. I can give you, for example, a bridge like that. By Seelphos, over Elfaust. The road between Selephos and Hoatos is planned and is now in the transport programme and will be inexorably priorities for the next transport program, but it will not be fully carried out if the bridge does not arrive until 10 years later. It might be interesting to post it on a hurrying project. I have mentioned the formation of a Dizziness Way, an important project in the capital area. If it starts, it is of the degree that it will never be made any different than it will be with some kind of currency. When it comes to double the Hagular tunnel that may be sooner than later, it will likely be done in a similar way. [[The president calls.]] Today, there is a walled tunnel, and there are other roads all around the country where this possibility exists. [[The president calls.]] So I don't want to rule out this route. It's primarily for consideration. But I reiterate, and therefore ended my speech, saying that the challenges are great. [[The president calls.]] Sometimes it takes thinking outside the box when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u210	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. One thing in his talk, I wanted to ask about it. Now I live on the Acdéri, driving the Hagland tunnel back and forth most days. He specifically mentioned them. I don't sense the need for the double walk. To connect the cost to the double tunnel, which is about 15 billion, it would be possible for 15 billion, grossly, to extend the road through Kjalarnes, extend the road after the tunnel has reached, through the citynes, past the Bifrost, and the long way up the Holtvenavót. Just to put in context what a major operation this is. Tells you the highest. Ministers that it is necessary to look for ways to make a bridge or a double whale soil march in the coming years? I heard from his speech that he didn't think it was gonna escape much longer. I have doubts about it as a considerable user of these tunnels, I'm a frequent guest over there. But I think the funds would be better off elsewhere, the need is greater in many other parts of the road. It would be interesting to hear the ultimate view. Ministers on the Halfland tunnel, whether this is as urgent as it would indicate, to go to the roadtollation for such a project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u211	A respectable president. I agree with what. Of course, there are many tasks that are extremely urgent and 15 billion, which are precisely estimated to be the number of double Hahlfhönroads. There's been a discussion that it might come about sooner than later if the speed of traffic continues in the rhythm it has been in recent years, at least we need to prepare for such a project. But I agree with what. A senator that there is no need for us to get started this year or the next year, so I mentioned in my speech that in the coming years, it would be a task which would be an example of the same as we mentioned earlier about possible remuneration in ways where there is another option. However, it needs to be done in more detail and more details about the growth of traffic. Is there another way to control this situation? That's a lot of money. We need to ask how it is wise to put these projects in first place with regard to the amount that is in place, but also to ask which traffic security we are improving and how we will make more effective efforts for people to get away from one place to another and another, which, of course, is vital before making decisions about how to proceed. Of course, that is what the road is doing every day when it weighs and measures the need for construction and precisely what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u212	A respectable president. First, I want to welcome in particular the increased donations the government has gained solidarity in setting up for transport. The need is urgent. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister just into how we can see this happen in the years ahead despite this additional. It has been said that during the next five years, it takes about 100 billion in maintenance. Of the 5.5 billion others now coming, it can be assumed that at least 3◯3.5 billion of them are needed directly for maintenance projects that are extremely urgent. We need to work hard to get additional funds to do so this year. That leaves about 2 billion. Projects ahead are the Gufudal Bay of 7.5 billion, the Da vildindir of 3.5, the Smokejanes Way of 11.5, Who made up on a 4th floor of 5.5, Hornfjörður of 4.5, 20 billion plus. This is about 60 billion, apart from all the rest. As we look at these grand projects, I want to ask the highest. A minister I had basically come to the conclusion that after the payment of a payment report, if we have not had to look to a larger fortunes on the basis of roads, and if it is not a very reasonable way to guard the equal population of the country so that the currency will not take place around some local project, but to look at much larger total projects and solutions, to form the routes here and out of the capital, as agreed in this report, and then look to how we are going to take care of the people of this country when it comes to do so. It's normal for me to be seen looking up east, north, and west of the same. I felt well - intentioned in many parts of the world with these ideas in my day. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on this and, in view of the fact that there may be 1.5 to 2 billion of the events over the next few years, we will probably have to put up below half of it just in airports and ports. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u213	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator's challenges ahead are very high because we've done too little on roads, on airports and airports around the country, and there's a big job ahead of us in the docks. Perhaps the biggest project is what I did only enter my entrance. A senator took up his case, i.e. the high maintenance need which has been growing very much in the winter. Roads that they thought might be able to endure a year or two before a new wearout may simply have collapsed during winter, both because the winter weather has been unusually bad and because traffic has simply increased so much. Then all of a sudden, you have reached the limit of endurance, and when that road is ruined, it really needs to be built up. It may be a question of whether we are discussing maintenance or even a new project, at least somewhere in between. It has been estimated that if they had 10.5Howe1 billion a year, they would be able to work up this maintenance hall they have, I think, about 65 billion need. Today, we have some 8 billion, which, of course, is a significant increase from what used to be. If I remember correctly, it was 5 billion 2016. This section has been greatly increased in the past two years. But more is needed. I can see that we can do this - we may have 75 billion inside this team of projects and maintenance over the next three years - making a considerable amount of shell. But we also need to take long - term action on this assignment, for we must never again find ourselves in need of that kind. For the currency, I need an answer. The better the second time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u214	A respectable president. There will be other questions in the second half. We only come to ports and airports. I think maybe there's some construction that's got a little bit different in the serious situation of the transport system, our road system. They forget to discuss the tremendous amount of work in front of us. It is a fact that in very important ports around the country, they have reached their years of steel, which keep the filling under rejection; it is very common for them to be between 50 and 60 years of age. That means they're starting to quit. There's a lot of value underneath. If this happens, then the fillings will go. The harbor floor will go. There are many examples of this, since this is happening. It is clear that this vast amount of money has to be put in place. The situation at the airports is also very depressing. It has only been possible to have absolute minimum operations in recent years. We have airports in many parts of the country that are badly gone. We have a very large and urgent project ahead of us. The rise in international flights requires a high rate of impact, e.g. In Akureyri and Eglels, they can do role as backup airports. They need to be built in a sound of air. The scene at the Egls - where billions of projects are carried out on the floor of the field or on the main track of the field. Many smaller airports are very hungry and need repairs. Reykjavíkur Airport - there could be a major project within a relatively short period of time. Clearly, it cannot be avoided to increase the financial resources of these classes. So I see a little bit of this rise, which, though handsome and to celebrate, will do us a lot of time. I just want to pray to the highest. Ministers to review the situation as he sees it in waterfronts and airports, I feel that this vision is lacking in discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u215	A respectable president. With regard to flying, maintenance, and building needs, we're talking about a billion people needed. Of course, it can be distributed over a few years. There we are working at several fronts, including based on age groups. A senator set off when he was in the Ministry as Minister. We have continued to do a very good work there. Hopefully there will be clear - cut solutions, ideas of how we can strengthen our flight. I agree with what. A senator, it is very important that we do so much better than we have been doing and watch the international flight as an important factor in the public transport. In terms of rejection and rejection, I was attending a meeting of the transport Council where I was discussing the fact that I wanted to call for better analysis of the structure needs there. I haven't felt that we have had that information clear enough, either here in the council or in the Ministry, and have called for it. I hope to put more focus on what it takes for the long future. Of course, this will help you to set up a 5 - year plan, or plan, as we know about the age of 4 or 12 years. Only in terms of the currency, as of any given moment. A senator was also discussing his first talk, so I agree with him that it is important for certain equality to be guarded. At a meeting I met with the people at the Acdéri, who had been paid in the Hafjörður tunnel, I stressed that if I told them that I was open, I know that. A senator would be interested in some kind of currency - it would have to be on some equal base, i.e. that the methods that would be used could be used in more projects around the country under different circumstances but would be handled by equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u216	A respectable president. A brief comment on the remuneration, I'd like to remind you that the budget says that no more Kingdom responsibilities should be carried out during this period. But only in rural areas and rural areas. Here we have this fine concierge proposal for a policy-making strategy, but at the same time we have policy in the financial programme, which is also on regional, rural, etc. I don't understand why there's so little policy in the financial program where it's actually supposed to appear, but the plan itself is relatively recent and is relatively thorough. Why, then, is it not part of the budget or vice versa? At least I think I'm sorry. that the current policy, which appears to be expected to be part of the budget, should be a concierge proposal as it appears here on the basis of the strategy. I feel that there is an unsettled policy for all the government's media domains and is being supplied in a financial program. Who's headed for it, I think, must have their own contingency. In the case of a strategy, this seems to be the case and to be expected on a transport plan. I wanted to focus on the stratosphere that I mentioned in a speech yesterday, that is expected to not change in any region. I wanted to know at the highest. Minister how to achieve that goal in view of the fact that we will see this biological trend through the growing elderly in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u217	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for calling attention to this important series of issues that are also in my Ministry. He asks about the progress rate, and he was also discussing how the budget and the development programs played together. Table on page 24. 205 for which the precise extrapolation rate is three key elements of the strategy, i.e. equal access to services, equal opportunities to work and contribute to sustainable development. They're set up and they're set up, they haven't all been developed yet, but they're just putting up a box about it. The box on which the budget is in the amount is here. And it's not true that they don't change, it's said that they don't increase into the 2019 criteria and into time, but that's certainly with the 54 basic procedures that are in the development programme and those three main routes. Each article there needs to be a measure of how it works. However, I don't think it would be natural for the core plan as it appears to be part of the financial agenda. Then we'd be here with a stack of stacks that could cover the floor, and this is the big, big, financial frame. These goals, of course, need to be mentioned. I think I'll handle it correctly when I say that the countries that have developed this most advanced began a little bit as we are starting these years, with very many objectives, many emphasis for the government, but then they will gradually decrease. The budget may then be a clearer set for government policy at any given time, but I think, as in other countries, it took five or ten years, even longer, to develop this tool to work effectively. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u218	A respectable president. I was just wondering if this topic area doesn't have an advantage, and the transport issues too, to have a framework for setting an overall policy for that topic area, at least Sort of like that. Should this not be the same with regard to the other issues? Then we'd have to consider just how the budget production reflects on the overall conference in the Parliament's decision-making program or the topic field itself. It's right next to the highest. Ministers, they don't increase, the ratio can be lowered so that there are others in their working years against those who are not working. It's just fine. My question will help us see how to achieve that goal, since we see an increase in non work - age group. If this is our goal, there must be some action plan or policy that we are going to set for the result other than the percentage change we see before us. I want to know what these measures are, because I am simply asking for two possibilities, one of the older ones, and we don't want them to, and the other is that we simply move in with people in our working years. I wondered what proportions we're looking at and how it's being made. I do not realize that there are goals here that can be set without the actions on the next page saying anything about how we reached the location of the standards and standards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u219	A respectable president. Of course, for the second thing, how to achieve the stratosphere ratio, 54 guidelines should help with the three main objectives of solely promoting sustainable development. I can imagine more ideas to do that than that. A senator mentioned, to make it possible that Iceland has become light - related. A telecommunication across the country meant that people could work at their home and not have to move long distances, they could work anywhere. There is another proposal for public employment without a location where people can also work in their locality. There are more of these projects in these programmes. The project that I know that all rural areas and all parts of the country work on the day out and the day in is creating sustainable communities where the normal restoration of the population is quite normal, and therefore the order of age is fairly normal. We know that this is a challenge. This is a project that has been developing in the other direction. Hence, such goals and standards are set that can then be measured. That's what I'm talking about. A senator began with a view to whether this Ministry had a head start, I think it's right around the corner. Senator. This Ministry has been working for a very long time, perhaps the longest resort, in such policies and long-term programmes, especially in a transport program, later in a communication program, and now a built-in program. That's why I remind the Ministry's bill on integrating these programmes to the budget both in time and in the setting of connections. The purpose of today's discussion is to consider just where the Ministry is going and how the frame is. [[The president calls.]] Then it is developed more closely in the markets, on the Senate resolutions, and on the projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u220	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for excellent passage, and especially for the highest. Ministers have been successful in getting funding for their important financial group in today's financial program. I don't need to repeat the numbers on a large increase or percentage point in it. Clearly, there is a big advance in transport, and that's fine. I'd like to look at my eyes a little bit closer in this room and our surroundings around here, i.e. to the capital area. It has been noted earlier in the discussion that the Treaty specifically contains support for the city line. When a financial program is read, it is obvious that there is little discussion of direct support there. In many respects, there are very reasonable explanations. The discussions that the local community and State have proclaimed between these administrative points are not rejecting. That's why I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity to have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister on this question and ask if he agrees with me on the importance of participating in their discussion with full force and on the importance of urban transportation, especially from the environmental and climate issues. Very much. Ministers take the initiative to get their communities to the table and work on the good parts of the city line?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u221	A respectable president. Thank you. This important question is raised by a senator. Simply put, the government and all its groups agreed on this transport infrastructure, and it included it. That's what you'd think of. It is not unusual for us to see that in the first financial programme of the government, there is a clear view that a faster structure than we have done for many years. One of the most important tasks to take is to increase public transportation. We are involved in the national part of the network's work on the nation's affairs. It's very important. It went pretty well for a while, then a little hiccups came into it. The number of passengers increased for a long time, but then it did not work out. At the same time, there has been a contract here in the capital area for public transportation where the goal was to increase the number of passengers by 50%, some 8 million passengers, I think. Although not all the way to what was expected, the masses have become 11.5 million passengers. It's been going the right way. People have asked themselves, " Why have men gone beyond this? ' Then there's an idea that it needs a stronger system. The city line is responding. In the government covenant, we say that we are going to support that work. The Ministry and the Road made its entry into the Continental Association in the capital area, in fact with two warnings, was that it was being examined more than the public transportation and that there was no debt of debt to it. Now that we publish a financial program, we have not finished our talks with our rural communities in the capital area. Of course, no rural society in the capital area has put in its three-year budget to go to this structure. But I think there are a lot of societies, if not all, that's what we're ready for, at least, and I'm ready to sit down to form after the end of the district election and develop this project. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is one of the tasks involved, including how we are going to deal with and deal with our goals in climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u222	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of Jehovah's Witnesses answers these questions and direct questions very clearly. It's like the highest. A minister came in, and I had entered my first speech myself, but negotiations do not decline. As a result, bonds are difficult to deal with. I remind all of us here that financial programs are reviewed every year. For a word at the highest. Ministers and what the government has said about its policy, I expect we'll, we'll have a good discussion, see in the coming financial reviews whenever possible, as discussions continue. At the end of my second speech, I would like to contribute to the work of the Ministry, which has not been a lot of discussion here today, which is the community. It is also a source of great joy to see the increase in regional languages. I personally find myself especially happy with the emphasis that deals with local people. I'd like to talk to the minister about how the discussion has gone. It is proclaimed here, if I understand correctly, that the success is not too long. How does the Service Card work? I think there's a very important tool for people in the country and all of us to put down to us what we want to do. When can we expect the next step to be taken even if we see the money in the program?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u223	A respectable president. I thank the senator for calling attention to the community plan and the new procedure there. This will take a few years. Thus, sometimes such work takes more time, but as a result, you get a better set. This began with the truth, if I recall just at the beginning of 2016, when the then members of the council were called for a meeting. Then, the graffiti took a bit with these balls, and after the project was transferred to the transport and rural administration agency's Office, the final nod has been cooperated with all the national parts and again with the Ministry, with a large number of members. Then, in March, we were given this perfunctory piece of advice, and we were now given in the final meters, if I recall correctly, 28 reviews that were very positive. Some added suggestions that were taken into account; others had tips, but all were very positive. These were suggestions from all over the community, all around the country. What a joy it was to see it! Therefore, it is important that as this document shows up with 54 proposals, certain funds have been placed on many projects. Not all because some are under other departments as well. However, there is an increase in this class of 780 or 790 million in the period where earmarks have been made when the projects go in, to what extent and to which extent they will measure the results and then measure them. These are very many important assignments. I think it all mattered. Just a minute about the service card. It's just on the move, that's all. A building agency is working on this, and I expect it to appear sooner than later this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u224	A respectable president. We're talking about a financial plan for 2019-2023. Transporter's here talking about transportation. I'd like to direct a question to the highest. A secretary of transportation, mostly: Where in this program is there a double Sveinjanes Way from Straumsvík to KaIdursel Road? This is the largest road in the country. That's about 50,000 cars a day. If we take the increase in the capital area from 2016 to 2017, it was 8.7%. The Vaults were somewhat similar, 8.7%. But there's a 15% increase in Smokejanes track. There's been a terrible accident. This is one of the most accidental chapters in the country, especially from Kalsaluri to Krysavík Road. I can't help believing that something's going to be done about it. There is something else to consider. It's a very dangerous cigarette track right now. There are slots in the road, and in the heat of rain, this is a very dangerous road. There's also room for cleaning up. There will also be improvements on the Kjalarnes Way, from Mosfellsville to the Invasion tunnel. We need to realize that where one broad road is like on the Smokey Way, it's getting a car across the reverse road at a speed of 90 miles [90 km] very scary. I've been through it at 50 miles an hour. The rest is a total horror. There's a very small chance that you'll survive. That's why I'm asking, "How many accidents do we have to have before this is done? ' Where's the plan on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u225	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for the inquiry. I agree with him that it is, of course, that if we can separate our driving policies from those that are the most driving, it is the only way to avoid the most serious accidents. Of course, there may always be times when a person runs out or behaves in some way that an accident may occur. That's why I can't tell you how many accidents I need. Of course, we do not want one accident to happen. We are on a major project, however. I know why. A senator is a great supporter by doubleing and finishing the Smokey Way. The budget is no transport plan. It is this large financial issue of how we can then frame the transport program. That is where we discuss priorities. But on the other hand, there are two, probably three, projects planned this year to fix dangerous places, which I think we've been discussing before in the winter. Senator. Similarly, Kjalarnes is planned for at least one project and preparation for its arrival. Then it will be in the transport program that will appear to us in the fall, i.e. The amount will be in accordance with the budget so that we know some of the sum we are talking about, and then priorities will be highlighted in the number and order of projects that take place during the first few years and then beyond. I agree with what. In the discussion of the importance of increasing money, a senator discussed this with other members of the council earlier. The roads have gone very bad this winter, and it is important to deal with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u226	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A secretary of transportation for the answers. I'm gonna ask him, and I'm gonna believe that taking the most dangerous and most dangerous chapter in the country must become his priority, i.e. The Smoky Way from KaIussel to Straumsvík. Also, I'd like to ask a minister to the airport. I understand there was a moment ago when Keflavík Airport was closed. All the flights had to be directed to Eglish positions and Akureyri. There I understood that there was a kind of monster crisis because tow trucks were missing to pull the jets in both places. This is a sum of over 30 to 40 million dollars. I'm asking you, aren't there some small money and a little thing that you can sort out? Is this on the agenda somewhere? Just for the flight security. There's always a rise in Keflavík Airport, and there's no need to tell us that if anything happens there, there's going to be a situation at a certain time. An enormous number of airplanes land there. That's why we have to have Akureyri and Eglels ready to be our backup airport. I would also like to point out that a very dangerous chapter is from the Viking to the Cape. Is it not time for us to start thinking about the speed of that chapter? Is it possible to allow a 90 - mile [90 km] per hour at a section so dangerous that disaster can happen if anything happens? Do we not have to change things about speed limits in ways that are known to be dangerous and unable to withstand the speed permitted there?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u227	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator has a few more questions. Regarding my priority, in my letter to the transportation Council, I wrote to prepare a transport plan, to emphasize traffic security, that is the key factor. But we also need to remember that we are building a basic service across the country so that people can get from home to work safely. So there are many projects. It cannot be said that all the funds are to go on one thing; traffic security must be the key factor in priorities. With the airports and the idea of tow trucks, that's all we've been considering. Regarding the event as long as it takes. A senator mentioned, the Ministry responded by asking for information from Istavia that I am waiting for, about how those circumstances were, and whether there was any danger there. We have three more airports than Keflavour Airport, which is Reykjavík, Akureyri, and different airports. Fortunately, there were four jets in Egls, two in Akureyri, and save what was saved. That's what I'm talking about. In his first speech, a senator mentioned that the increase in Rhivine Way was about 15%, so it is true that in some other places the increase is huge. During 2016 more than 2017, the increase in trying Mounts, i.e. in the way of Viczard, the valley of Myr, about 89% in that year. In 2017, if I recall correctly, on the way east of the Vikings, i.e. in a dangerous land route, the increase was 24% and much higher than the national average. These roads are also one of the things we need to look at when we are watching traffic security. You're right next door. A senator says that one way to increase traffic security is to reduce speed. This is one of the factors to consider, although such a decision has not been considered. If the road system goes further down and becomes even weaker, we need to take up the part as well, if there are any specific areas to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u228	Mr. President. I'm gonna take this chance on the first round, and I'm gonna ask the highest level. It seems that the secretary of transportation is taking a closer look at the roadside, which has been rather discussed here, but they seem to be supporting themselves as a key part of the structure of our transport system, even though there may not be much publicity about them in the budget. But let it be. In some cases, dues are not so bad, and in reality, dues are more reasonable than general taxation. But if it's decided to go that way, this tax needs to be lowered in return because otherwise we're just talking about a clean increase in taxes. And more importantly, we're talking about a regional tax increase if it becomes a way of letting certain areas pay more than others. I listened to the highest. Ministers talk to other members of the council earlier, saying that they would be equal to the people of the land, and I'm glad to hear it. I admit I'm concerned about the interests of Smoking in this regard. Well, it's been that way. After discussing this recently, a minister has been talking about Reykjavík and a long time ago road repairs in the capital area and around it. I would love to have confirmation and request a final version. V.E.G. Well, a minister's kind of got to respect me as a pity that he's had quite a lot of opinions on these matters, not for a very long time. I'd like to tie it here, to decide that if this route is gone, the government would have thought it would be an equal case. It won't be like that, as we have recently discussed, and even the highest. A minister has spoken of the hand of the god of Smoke there to pay the bag over the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u229	A respectable president. I don't know what speeches or interviews. A senator has listened. I think I've had the same opinion all along in this case. The government covenant did not mention a single word on the roadside side of Reykjavík, as planned in the government. A senator sat last year. That's why I said I wasn't working on that kind of thing, in no way. I have said, however, that the project is very big, and there must be some way to think about it, even though we put all the weight, and it is first, in the public budget that we are working on in a financial program. I've talked about that over the next three years, we've got 70,75 billion in construction and maintenance of road affairs in the country that are considerable financial and far beyond what we've seen in recent years. Then the project is bigger, and we need to look for ways to do it. I've told you we're working on that. They're not available because they'd have come forward and we'd be looking for them. As a matter of fact, I have felt that equalit is the most important thing to do. If a decision is made to speed up a project that would be carried out after five or ten, the evidence is that people have a different way of doing it. This applies to all over the country. Speaking of rates in general and of use: In the future, a fee may be collected by car blocks, which pays the person according to the specification they are going to take. Then, too, people will pay a price based on the cost of construction. In fact, there are many of the projects planned here in the capital area are very expensive; this section becomes expensive, but not very long. I don't know what the pay per mile would be like. There is such a context in the things that must be understood, if a person is to be paid for the use that is associated with it, it will be to some extent due to the cost of the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u230	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. Clearly, we continue to keep up our pace and to keep on the watch in these matters. I wish to the highest. A minister is successful in taking care of the equality of all the people of the land in these matters. I'd like to look at the firewalls. For some time now, Iceland has been very low in the national status of Internet security. In this case, only financial programs are being put to death. It is simply a key to us Icelanders to have close cooperation with our friends and neighbors and to learn from them in this case because we certainly can. It is also appropriate to point out here, for example, in the case of police officers repeatedly that it is important that we do not become the kiss of the class. In these matters, no one is stronger than the weakest link, and we certainly do not want to be the weakest link in security. Earlier this week, the Norwegian Council of Akureyri met. It was adopted by the Council's Presidency Committee to direct them to the Norwegian government to increase the cooperation of the national networks as well as to cooperation with the Baltic States, which are the only ones in the longest part of these, Estonia, especially. It is a direct concern that the North countries are cooperating with them on the Internet. In fact, this suggestion was not approved by a seismic group that left groups of green people did not support it. I'd like and be very important to hear here the minister of the jury's attitude on this matter as well as his opinion on whether the left-wing position of this internoristic team affects how the Icelandic government will approach the matter. Are we Icelanders, or are we not about to accept this good invitation, learn from and cooperate with the North countries of the Internet to get us out of the toss class?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u231	A respectable president. Thank you. Katrín Hanna Friðriksson especially for this request. We haven't talked about this here today. How important it is that we also talk about this very important matter! I have to say, just as it is, if there is any weakness in this financial program with my media, he will realize that there is not enough online security or mail in this financial program. There are planned bills that will likely enter the next winter and be approved later. They will cost money. In the next financial programme, we have to deal with this and go through the council, and the council will agree with the ways in which it has gone, it will probably also agree with the finances that go into the Ministry Frame. I don't know exactly the suggestion. A senator referred to the Council of Northern Congress, but I need to study it as a fellow minister of the northern states. On the other hand, we have had a very good relationship and a conversation with the northern countries on these matters. We've had good relations with the Norwegians, but we've also sought special advice from the UK, from Oxford, and have many tips from there. So I don't want to say that we're in a lot of trouble with these issues. It would be pretty absurd for me to say that after accepting awards from the world's top secretary yesterday for being in first place by all the countries in communication. We got past South Korea. Network security is one of the items in it, so it is important for us to deal properly with Internet security issues in order to maintain it. I agree with what. A senator of this matter and thank him for bringing it up in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u232	Mr. President. No, we may not be in the Toss class when it comes to Internet security, but we're probably in the toss class when it comes to transport, roads. This is where they spoke. Minister earlier on how we should and should be building our basic services. The insides were very important to us. A worthy creation of the Icelandic economy. A connection between the streptic settlements of the capital and the capital area by the outlands. Really, this is where the value really comes from. There have been many last few years of road contributions. Roads are badly gone, they are going down, and some simply do not exist. In fact, this government proclaimed such a huge campaign in the construction of the road system that something else had not been heard. We do not, however, see this in the financial agenda. V.E.G. This year's secretary of transportation has introduced a plan that requires 200 billion in investments in the system, but here it shows an increase of 5.5 billion in the next three years and at the end of this period, the number is lower than it is today. The situation is so serious, and this drop is in the ocean when it comes to everything that is missing into this system. According to the plan, contributions to road transport will continue under the long average of land production, and we are far below those surrounding us, who have yet built up their infrastructure. That's why I think it's right to ask the highest question. Transporter: Is it normal for the system to continue drabing? Does he feel honest about calling this document a big campaign for transportation? Could that not include overemphasis on our own actions?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u233	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for these questions. Although I'm not ready to agree that we're in a toss class of telecommunications, I can totally agree with that. A senator says that we are in a best class in terms of the roads as they do today. It is quite true, and I just came into the past, that we are not simply responding to traffic weights, doubled roads, and making pretty good roads and safe paths, but we are still building up new roads and basic services to contribute to the more powerful settlements and in order that our business companies around the country will have their goods on the market. That's why the project is so big. I haven't talked about 200 billion jobs. I've said it's about that. 200 billion need for the next few years. When can we go for it, if it's five or seven years, or something like that, but 124 billion will join this suit, i.e. In the next five years, transport and communication are the longest, so to speak. During the past 20 years, there are only two years, 2008 and 2009, where the donations estimated for the next three years have been exceeded. So I really believe that we can live up to our pace of structure and get into big trouble, but I also believe that there's more to it. It takes more than the produce of a very good government fund that makes it possible for us to do this. We are taking money from the financial system with this another 5.5 billion in the next three years, much of which were praised for elections, and we talked about in the government covenant that we were going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u234	Mr. President. As you look at a raven, you can see quite clearly either what evolution has become or what it becomes. When the rise is high and so hard again, as it is in road transport donations, you must conclude that after 16 billion have entered the system, the object is in good shape. Why is the number in 2023 lower than at the beginning of the period? And if there's no money in the system, why are people giving in 203/430 billion of the state's income stocks of the Benedikt son of Jóhannesson from the last government? Why, in the face of the fact that they are in need of money?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u235	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that in order to break this assignment, we need to do more than just that. It's no one, and most of all, the one here is talking about that when we've put 16.5 billion in the next three years, this 5.5 billion more into the system, we've got it down, because if we look at this nice plot that's here and see the period when it's done, it'll take a lot longer to work it up. The time that nothing was done or very little has also resulted in the loss of sleep. The project is actually bigger, and it's good for us these weeks after a very bad winter. I think we're going to speed up the structure, but we have to look for a long time. In the transport program, we need to look beyond the time and even the financial agenda. We need to set some goal, such as. I have understood that Germany does where men always put, I believe, about 1.5% of the national production to this tribunal group. However, we need to take a little effort to get to a balance field, where we are not there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u236	A respectable president. In my second introduction to this discussion, I would like to direct a question to the highest. Secretary of transportation. Remuneration has been very much discussed here today, and it has been repeated in the case of the minister that he sees that there will be a way of making a special payment, a road to the road where there is otherwise to go. I'm thinking about how to know what it's like. A minister sees to it that this will be defined. When is another route to go, when does another way stop being able? I mean, they drove cars to Hafnar in the Hornfjord before the highway was finished in 1974, although that is, of course, the most extreme example I can think of. Nevertheless, the incision point is somewhere between them, and this I think would be a very interesting measure to go through. I'd like to hear the minister's point of view in this matter, how he envisions that it would be defined. Because then communities develop. For example, I am not convinced that men who live on Acdéri or in the citynes believe that the Whale Earth is a practical alternative way today for those who work on the other side of the network in this common area. Twenty years ago, hardly, it was possible to say: "There's another way to go. So society develops so that things cannot be looked at in the same way. I'm thinking about how to know what it's like. A minister sees it as an opportunity to define this possibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u237	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergthó Ólason for a very good question. Of course, it is an assignment to determine how we will handle these issues. What does that mean, how can it be defined? I know the evidence, I've heard them, and I understand them fully. When there's a chance of going under Ha God's farm, there's no other way of driving it again as it was done 20 years ago or so. Of course, it's possible to go to the Hornside if the River hadn't been crowned. There would be another way. It's just a project we're working on, how it's done. One thing I could envision as a goal is that short - tailed ones can be spoken of, that the benefits of going the new way and the benefits to society by shortening the way, reducing carbon emissions, and thus achieving our goals in climate. There are some of these things that I think we should take into consideration. We're working on it, and it's definitely gonna happen when we get to the bottom of this. I'd like to reiterate that we've said that these paths are quite effective. We're looking at them, but they don't exist as a suggestion here today. I will no doubt take up that discussion here at the council when it is in progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u238	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Only in connection with this pass talk. In this context, I have mentioned a number of times that the total payload of automobiles and traffic in 2016 was 46 billion apart from the value tax. This year some 21 billion people, some 25 billion, were spent on new business projects and maintenance, making a total payoff of the State. It's the highest. A minister assumes that income from road expenses will be a clean addition to the pay already taken on users of the road system? Or the highest. A minister might suggest that, according to the traditional ways that we know, something should be restored in terms of currency? The fact is, the cost of using the road system is considerable in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u239	President. This is a very interesting subject. A senator came in here and unfortunately I only have one minute to discuss it. The situation is that our current foundation, the income base under the road system, is falling because we are pushing in new energy cars that no fuel costs are paid off. If I remember correctly, and completely on the ahead, my income, which was once marketd for road income, is mainly the fuel costs, about 17 billion. Fuel costs have always been paid, except for a few years in 2011, 2012 and 2013, if I remember correctly, for road work. Then, too, there is more income from cars, warehouses, imports, and automobile costs, which have not been this limited income, which has certainly slipped into the state's budget to finance other things. You need to revise the revenue base, i.e. The fuel charges. We're going on a trip to raise carbon charges. I heard why. A senator will discuss it here with the Environment Minister earlier today. [[The president calls.]] There's gotta be a mix-up between here and there. Those who use the roads, whether they buy gasoline or oil or electricity, will have to pay for the road as quickly as possible. [[The president calls.]] It's getting urgent to make these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u240	Mr. President. I can really tell you how we did it before they gave it to him. We went to planks and trucks. We might even back up this method, it's very practical. I welcome the emphasis on the security of transport that is found in the budget, but in view of the fact that a transport strategy is not available until autumn, only the text of goals and measures needed to try to read out the priorities will be examined. In the 11th transport sector, transport projects such as animal trajectories, Golfishos Road, Graviture Road, and the West Sea of Kjalarnes are specifically listed. However, the 4th unit under transport and communications is listed as being quite different. A new bridge and a road through the Horn of the Earth, I recommend it, Mount Mortar Road, a doubled Southland road, and a new Elfjörður bridge, a road through the city's pine coast, a bridge over the glacier in the mountains, and to finish the double Rhine Way. These are many assignments and animals. The 2018 budget has an estimated 39 billion to the lawsuit, but by the end of the period of 2023, 36 billion are estimated. The budget for transport, investments, and maintenance will thus decrease over the period, except for the three years when special efforts are being announced to a share of the bank. Does a minister find it realistic to think that this 16 billion - billion - year - long extension will succeed in implementing these transport workers he lists in his financial strategy? For the next five years, I believe that with the estimated amount of money, calculated in terms of moderate inflation, it would take 19◯27 years to complete it, but hopes have been made that it will be completed for the next five years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u241	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I'm not going to say that it's wise to go back to the barge or horses, although it may be environmentally practical, I don't think it's very efficient, and maybe not safe enough from what we expect today. In the case of the work that took place. Of course, the senator's list is, of course, talking about the current and subsequent projects that need to be carried out in the years to come. This is to take place in the text entitled "Second Strait Strait, " which is estimated to cost 24 billion, but it does not start until others do. If they remain in the same course of transportation as they have been then they are the next tunnel, and they are not likely to be started until 2022/2023, so, of course, they are not entering this five-year program unless they are in the last year and perhaps in some preparation that would be necessary to continue. Of course, there are plenty of projects. That's why I've said that if we want to speed up specific projects that would economist in the priorities of today's transport program because they're most important projects, we might need to think in some other way of financing them. That is what we have discussed with a number of members of the council today. I don't think we can rule out such things, because simply the increase in traffic that has been over the last few years, including due to the high growth of tourists, but of course because of economic growth in Iceland and increased activity, and the lack of progress, there will be an increase in the years ahead in the number of tourists and consequently a growth in traffic. And that's why we have to do more than we can handle at the same time as we're stopping into the holes that lack of maintenance has created.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u242	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A secretary of transportation for the answers. I think they're hoping that it's going into effect, like the South Coast tunnel, if they're listed as a five-year financial programme. So I feel that it is being implied that this project is just about to start. I also wanted to reiterate whether this is practical because I am surprised to learn that after 2021, there is a decline in the lawsuit. During the 2022 and 2023 years, transport contributions are lower than in 2017 because new transport initiatives are linked with maintenance and management. Or is the minister going to let it all go back down again?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u243	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator's three - year campaign is 5.5 million years old. When it expires, the donations decline, but they are in line with the year 2018, i.e. The current year, some higher than 2017, and higher than almost every single year in the past 20 years. In those years, there is quite a lot more to this party than has been. If we look back 20 years in time, the average line could be somewhere around 17, 18 billion, but the number that's probably about 20 billion, now I don't remember it, doesn't have it right in front of me, close to 20, 19.5 or something like that. - I have it in a pill right here in front of me and I'm trying to read it. And I've also told you today that the billions we're about to add for the next three years will be enough to add to the holes, so we can go on. [[The president calls.]] It takes more to master this grand task.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u244	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing about the government's financial plans for the next five years and will discuss in particular the factors at the highest level. Secretary of transportation. In that area, there are some subjects that I'm interested in. I'd like to name the main transport, the road, the waterfront, and that sort of thing. I'm gonna make two, three questions in that relationship, in my two entries here. The road is very important and urgent in our district. Secretary of transportation. It contains all the major foundations from Keflavík to Reykjavík, from Reykjavík, Selephos, and from east to Hornfjörður, and there are the tourists. Who's financing the cause? Minister, if we go over it? In 2016 32 billion, 2017 36 billion, in 2018 39 billion, in 2019 43 billion, in 2020 42.6 billion, in 2021 42 billion, in 2022 36 billion, in 2023 36 billion. - I read 36 billion, and I didn't mean to believe it. It's the same number as in 2017, there's nothing to give. This does not describe the largeness of transport. Today it is announced that the transport should be set at 5.5 billion each year for the next three years. What should we expect, to be joyful? No, at the same time as it is believed that it will take 2001⁄2250 billion to get the road system in an decent position to put 16.5 billion into what is 6% of what is necessary to put into the system right now. I was going to ask about Landing Harbor, and I'm going to have one of those bridges too. I'm going to get to that in my second pocket.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u245	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. It is not as if these 5.5 billion for the next three years are the only money that joins this group. During the next three years, we may be talking about 70,75 billion in construction and maintenance, and over the five - year period, we are talking about 124 billion in recent transport and communication. In part, this reduction in 2022 and 2023 explains that the EU photorelated project ends the previous year, reducing some 500 million of it. The amount for implementation and maintenance is according to this table, which I know to the curve. A senator may have seen in his presentation of the budget, between 2022 and 2023 about the same as in 2018, perhaps slightly lower, than 20 billion. Is that enough into the long future? I'm not sure. I can agree with that. That's what a senator does. Therefore, we have been talking about other ways here today and whether they are suitable, e.g. to speed up specific projects later on on schedule. I think the Senator and I agree that the need in our district is extremely urgent, the weight of traffic has increased most, and many roads have not been originally built for all the heavy transport, whether with products or tourists, large buses, or the number of cars that we have seen in recent years. I can't see it coming, so I think we need to look longer when it comes to their construction.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u246	A respectable president. Let's finish this. Former secretary of transportation, my ass. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who undertook the discussion of road expenses, made this a significant discussion in his day but has since been kind of forbidden. What can be done? It's a terrible situation. The roads are breaking. The problem is not to put anything in a road that is of any importance. Then I'm going to ask him, "I'm going to go to the top." Ministers to follow in the footsteps of their predecessors and to examine seriously the proper procedure for collecting roads? Second, the highest. A five - year - old secretary of transportation to reduce the number of single bridges. And what is the reality of the matter? On highway one, there are 37 bridges of monotonous bridges. They are to be 28 in 223 C.E., reduced by a total of nine; of these are five related to a bridge in the Horn of the Earth. There's gonna be a Vöggur of trouble. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to inform us of this, when can the Hornlands be expected to leave Reykjavík without driving over a dozen single bridges? Is it the fourth millennium?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u247	A respectable president. I guess. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason was joking about the fourth millennium. I can agree with what. A senator that it might be more interesting to set an ambitious aim to reduce the number of single bridges on the ring road and, in fact, single bridges all over the world, and I know that in the work of a transport worker, such ideas have been discussed. The project, however, is quite a big one. If I remember correctly, we have 750 singles in our system. On the other hand, many of them are on the road, and all are very dangerous, of course not dangerous, but they are all dangerous. Then, many roads are being driven in a way that is like the founding of the ring road. I don't know what it's been like to be under ban, and I've talked it over the whole time. Besides, I don't remember that there was a pack. A senator sought to support the ideas of that traveling minister in the campaign. But I hear today that more senators are ready to look at some kind of currency. I understand that people want to talk about the process, how it's going to turn to the equality of its citizens, etc. And I'm here for that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u248	Mr. President. We're here discussing an important part of financial strategy, actually all parts of it are important, but it's transport. During this brief period of service by the government, it has appeared to us who are following up the transport discussions. It is evident that this is a big blow, that clouds have been built, and then what will be revealed? In the end, there is really no increase. The real growth in transport is very low, and when we go to the end of the budget, at the end of this period 2020, we have a real structure of 2 billion. That's all the talk it's about. It is really sad to look at the highest. A secretary of transportation, which in some respects I feel sorry for bringing all these clouds and then when the numbers come out, they speak for themselves. The first thing to do is to eliminate all ideas immediately. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson set out to try to build up some other resources to trigger all the means of transportation that need to be started. They're out of the table right now. A month later, hair expenditures are all at once talked about, and then they go to the highest rate. Ministers continue to say that there is a possibility of taking up a course, perhaps not, perhaps if there is another way to go. There is no definition available. Nobody knows exactly what it is. Minister means this. I give the highest advice. Minister, hoping that it would be kindly taken, not to mention the financing of the transport system. Rather, they call on all political parties to try to find out the resources we need, since transport and infrastructure need more funding than financial programmes tell us about. It is not possible to take money directly from it alone. Instead, try to agree on how to develop a realistic income in order to pursue an even more extensive transport. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is not in the transport plan and in the financial program itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u249	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir's Þorgerður agrees that it takes more access to transport to get them to the way we want it. But I also hear, because I used to speak before this day. 2.m. A restoration that also spoke of the ringy way and that the minister said one thing today and another tomorrow, that the reverends had clearly not been listening very carefully to what the minister has said. There has been no rule or shut out of anything but what was naturally clearly stated at work with the government covenant on the roadside into Reykjavík, i.e. since only those who have to drive to Reykjavík to attend the service are to pay for the road to the road. It was not on the table of the government covenant and therefore not on my domain to speak to it, as well as on the condition of the former government. Actually, there was a senator who served as a minister. I don't recall the tremendous support for that plan, either from the members of the Reunion Council or from other members of that government. But I told from the beginning that the project was very big, and I didn't prevent other ways. Since then, I have talked about it here in a council hall and have actually done it several times today, so I don't think there's any clouds being built here. It simply needs to speed up structure, to go on the offensive. We'll do it in an additional supply for the next three years. During the next five years, no more money has been put in 20 years. Although it has been a special year during the period that has overstepped these contributions, it is only for two years during the past 20 more money is put in construction of transport than the next three. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u250	Mr. President. It's fine to be accepted by the highest level. A secretary of transportation that is not enough to be done. It's nice to be accepted too at the highest level. A minister of transportation to the cloudhouses, all that was said to be done, and the establishment of this government that it should go into a massive infrastructure, was merely cut down. That's why we're talking about a roundabout when you follow the minister's claims from the day he took his job and to today's day. But, of course, we want to help. We want to find solutions. It'll take more money. We have to face the fact that because of the government's composition, it's very sensitive to talk about other financing than directly to the budget. But we want to help, including. A secretary of transportation, looking for all the routes, and reaching the political censensus, forgive me for dropping, the highest. Mr. President, because I believe that we need to agree on this and to be content with how we further finance our transport system. I'm looking at the Western Islands in the front hall, and we need to put more money there, and money, that we need to turn to the Westerns as well as across the country. [[The president calls.]] How will the secretary of transportation make sure that we achieve political reconciliation to gain more money to build up the infrastructure? [[The president calls.]] The suggestions are not found in the budget. [[The president calls.]] I miss political shows and policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u251	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for later mentioned. There is no lack of vision or political policy in this series of issues. This financial program provides very clear lines on the structure that we see for ourselves as we grow there and particularly highlights the next three years. Actually, I've been able to say the word to a considerable sound foundation for today's senators who support these ideas, on the one hand, that it's a good thing to see this increase, but everyone agrees that there is more to it and that looking for other ways is not excluded. This, of course, does not include some political games and large declarations that there are people building some cloud city and that all policies are singled out. You do not, but you can achieve political solidarity by laying the cards on the table and by agreeing on building up what needs to be built up. [[The president calls.]] This needs to be done in transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u252	A respectable president. The restoration of the Icelandic educational system has begun. A five - year financial program is a sign. Clearly, the nation's education and culture will be invested in the next few years. I explain the main focus of the strategy to five years of age, the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Culture. In recent years contributions to the university have been greatly increased. During the period 2019/2023, we aim to increase contributions to the score by 4.8% or less than 2.2 billion. So in 2027 the contributions will be expected to reach over 47 billion, compared with 42 billion 2017. This is an increase of less than 12%, and much of the higher levels received during the year. In addition, donations increased by 15.2% to name values between 2016 and 2018, indicating that this increase is higher than what has been going on in other European countries. The aim is that donations to the university will reach an average of OECD countries per student in 2020. Government goals for this area can be divided into three parts. First, the quality of study and study environment must be improved to strengthen the state of the international university students. Second, strengthen research in college and its setting, where it is necessary to expand export to human intelligence. Third, we want to create a learning bridge between university and professional life in order to make an investment in the educational system more available to society. It is so that each dollar invested in the university will enter the economy by about eight times. Investment in college is a key factor in increasing Iceland's competitiveness to the future and dealing with the social challenges that rapidly change technology has on the world. That's where we're going. In recent years, contributions to high school have also increased significantly or by 12.6% between 2016 and 2018. Much of the increase this year is going to take place. The increase makes colleges, including the U.S. can improve the quality of study, support, and new tools and teaching tools. High school funds will continue to increase compared with financial programmes, but an increase of 700 million or 2.2% is expected. In view of previous financial programmes, there is an increase of 4.5 percentage points to the seminary. The rate per year of secondary education increased by 6.5% between 2017 and 2018. If any increase in the subject field is expected to be in the high school management business, donations per student will increase by 8% next year. This means that there will be an average of 1.6 million dollars per student in 2020. A respectable president. The production of innovation, research, and knowledge fields continues to increase over time, or by 8.9%. We are going to increase the competitiveness of our jobs in a growing international competition, including the U.S. by supporting the creation of new tasks in knowledge articles. We will continue to support our culture, art, sports, and youth, and the media in our country. The Treaty stipulates improving the environment of the book edition, creative articles, and the media. A top tax on books will be removed at the beginning of 2019, and a change in the value tax on the media subscriptions has begun to open up. More measures are expected to improve the media sector than are expected on the income side by 800 million in this respect. Then I am truly happy and proud that a financial program will be fully funded during the season and will be made current in a digital world for the future. A respectable president. The main focus is to promote education and culture in the country, guided by national interests. Here's your future, i.e. that education, culture, and science increase the quality of life in the country and benefit for Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u253	A respectable president. It's good to see that the plans for decommissioning a valuable tax on books should be made. I wish to the highest. A minister is happy to meet this challenge. Sadly, though, it seems that there is a lack of financial resources to ensure that a large education is fully under the name or to the list. In this financial programme, contributions to lists will not be increased during the election season but will be diminished. It was a strong campaign for all classes for the last election that contributions to the university level were to reach OECD criteria in 2020. However, according to the budget, a third of 223 C.E. data services based on numbers from OECD should be reached by figures from the International Assembly. I don't know if there are contributions to the construction of the House of Icelandic Education inside these numbers. It is not exactly a donation but a money that runs to a builder and would be fascinating to hear from the highest level. A minister's details. It seems similar to you when it comes to one of the hearts of the minister's issues, the procedure for speech. Over 750 million dollars will be spent there. In addition to them, nearly 500 million dollars. which has previously been spent on the project, i.e. about 1,250 million. K. The cost of a language - language plan, however, is estimated to be 2,700 million. K. Of these, 500 million are expected to come from companies as well as through the target schedule. So it seems that nearly half a billion of this program is still missing. It would be peaceful to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u254	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very happy for us as to the decommissionment of the merit tax on books. It is important that we take this step. It has not been taken for a very long time some such step in promoting a publication in the country. By taking this step, we certainly are strengthening that activity. I look forward to seeing the results. As far as university levels are concerned, the increase we've been making in these years, from 2016-2018, to over 12% of their worth of names, well, 15% of their worth, we haven't seen so much increase for a very long time. The very point of approaching the OECD target we're going to do is certainly there. Now, too, we have a team of working men, as we are going to appreciate those testimonials that we are comparing ourselves to. The last figures we have from the Economic and Development Agency are from 2014. It is a little important that we gain a little more firm and understanding of where we really are. Because of this, we've set up a job to appreciate it. But it is clear to me that if we are to be competitive and succeed in international competition, we must achieve this goal. I will make great efforts to fight for money so that it may well be.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u255	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. In a financial program, it is slightly suggested that matters I know a minister is also concerned about. I'd like to touch it here a little bit. It is a deteriorating reading skills and lack of progress that has yet come from the policy established by the authorities in that subject. A financial program describes continuing the work done on the basis of White Books, the read project called, and the evaluation of this project in the spring months of 2018, i.e. I guess now. I expect there to be a critical reassessment. A capitalite I would like to mention in the end is the matter of Iceland's Art University and improvements in the emergency of housing. Budgeting is being offered in a financial programme, and financing seems to be at the docks for competition, even digging a foundation. We know the foundations. I hope we don't have it making an Icelandic hole list.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u256	A respectable president. I didn't come to the grammatical project. It's completely financed. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has to do a little better with these numbers, but I understand and has fought for our total funding. If we can't handle these factors properly, i.e. That we may speak with English, our tongue is in danger. That is why the government has placed great emphasis on funding this and working together in a very good way with those most familiar with this sect. With regard to art and creative articles, it is clear that for the future, the growth of these articles is becoming quite remarkable. We need to strengthen our attitude toward them. I think it's one of those big things that we need to get inside so we can get a firm foothold. We've been doing well with culture. I agree with what. A senator must not conclude that the art university is far too back on the order in which it is built. It's not in this financial program, but it's full of us to work that there's an invitation to design for the next semester.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u257	V.E.G. President. The financial program discussed here speaks of students offering a comprehensive and progressive secondary secondary education as part of a growing number of students who complete such studies. It then allows for continued education, such as at a university. More students are said to complete a test at the specified time, and this will be part of increasing the nation's level of education. It's going to be the highest. Minister to help me with the interpretation of this word. I can see that when the nation's education levels are being increased, most of them are scheduled to attend university studies. Is that the message? Or is it meant to increase the number of graduates even in high school? That's exactly what I've understood, so there's a call for industrial and technicalised people. I wondered about this because I know there's a list of studies in industry and technology also known as training or training, depending on who's talking. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of education, according to whether she will be interested in this, in putting her trade under the schools so that they themselves are the ones who decide and find champions who deal with the workplace, thus making the entire study more purposeful. I base this question on the fact that OECD has pointed out that the management, organization, and distribution of the study are exactly complex and inexplicable and do not live up to our expectations.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u258	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator is eager for a very good inquiry, especially to call attention to this expression. What is meant is that more graduates are in high school. What's been going on is that some 453/48% have been graduating from high school. We aim for a share of about 60% in the years to come, so this is true in high school. I'd also like to mention that what we're doing to further the work, industry, and occupation is mostly three. First of all, it's like what's wrong. A senator pointed out that we need to simplify the entire administrative structure involved in a national industry and education. We have now set up a team of work to simplify this governance, and we are in very good cooperation with the job life in order to be successful in this process. In two months, I'll have the suggestions. Another factor we work on is the production and introduction of electronic CVs, which are also designed to simplify management and streamline access, except for a national industry and to-do. We also aim to increase the number of students in industry and occupational studies, improving all bioavailability. Today, there are about 12% of high school students enrolled in this study. The will is to increase this ratio in several steps. I have to say, I link this high share of elimination in the school system as well as the fact that students don't fully figure out what they're working at, doing industrial, technical studies. We need to do much better to introduce it to students in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u259	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much for these answers. I was expecting the good guys. I'm glad that the electronic book has come on schedule, a really good case, since it was one of the findings that came out of the 2016 report. I think it just needs to wonder what we're saying, what message we're sending out to the community because we've climbed a little bit by the fact that a higher level of education is the matter. It has given us a message that we want to put everyone through a bookful high school so that we can all get up to, we say, college. I think we just need to wind up this trend. Has there been a talk, as with the middle-class people would like to make an earmark of capitals in industrial and technical studies? That's what I'm wondering. Then I know that there is a desire to change the sex distribution between the mines. What's a Minister doing in the pipes there? Is it something that the staff will consider in cooperation with their professional life, as they mentioned? I think there's so much to do, and it needs to be done now, and it needs to start sooner. I imagine, as a minister entered, that it is not easy for students to realize what happens after high school. That's why I want to agree with those words. You have to do more for these kids, even for high school kids, say in fifth grade. Not later.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u260	A respectable president. We've been tracking specific funds for industry, occupational and occupational studies. Cutting down the material charges is a big part of it. There were 300 million this year and 300 million this year, and this will be especially helpful to those attending trade, to-do, and to-do. I'd also like to mention that I really think it's possible to consider sex distribution in these articles and that's a very good tip for me. Senator. There's something else I'd like to say. It becomes evident when we make an assessment of our basic school system that we do not really fill up our choices. I believe that the first step towards this is that we will achieve the goals of selection because they are often the first subject, except for what is available. I'd like to work with the state level starting there because they'll get to know it. What's also happening is that selectives are a relatively good percentage of students from grade 1 to grade 4 to grade 4 and up to grade 7, then they are in pain at their adolescent stage. I think it's one of the reasons why there aren't so many people in this country who go to trade, to-do and to-do, as compared to Norway. Here in the country are 12% of these articles, but the number is much higher, in Norway and other European countries, whether there are about 30% going to a similar site in Norway.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u261	A respectable president. There's two things I wanted to bring up to the highest level. Minister in connection with this financial program. One involves the media and the other about education that I make up the subject of my second talk. The financial program says about the media, with the permission of a president: ▪ The highest government project in the coming media is to shape policy in the media, which is based on detailed information on the status of the media, their operators, their prospects, and so forth. This week's news reports from the Hagana assessment of Icelandic media income in the last decade or so. It shows that this income was added by 17% to the real value of less than a decade. This is the mass media as a whole, which means that the income of the individual media has been far less than that, since there is no decrease in the actual value of the state radio at this time. On the contrary, the share of The Kingdom News in the Icelandic press market is now growing rapidly at the expense of the media. There comes the revenue model, where the Kingdom Radio has both belts and shoulder bands, a placid service contract, and then a net - income increase every year of a number of payers. This enables them to spend much more time and more time buying material that is popular and expensive, and this adds to their share in advertising. Now, I'd like to ask the minister: "How's the assessment going on now, including... based on a report she presented in the winter? Can't you be sure that a minister will be molded to this course that I mentioned earlier, mentioned in the budget, before it comes to a renewal of a service contract with the Government Radio that expires next year, 2019? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u262	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and its introduction regarding the media in Iceland. Clearly, private media are facing great challenges. As soon as I received a report of the group, the Ministry immediately started work to evaluate the impact of the media and the impact on the whole market. I'm expecting the results of this job, I think it's about six to eight weeks into it. Thereafter, we will shape suggestions that are falling to strengthen the environment of the environment of the individual media. The state radio status of a commercial market is being examined to form a research fund for the media and the taxological environment of the individual media. As I introduced here in the introduction, it has been put in open consultation to lower the value tax on the subscription server. In my opinion, the competition, not just the domestic competition, but international competition, has become so much higher today than five years ago. This is also linked to Icelandic language and how we will see it in the future. I think it's very important, and I agree with it. A senator of the fact that these suggestions - ways and policy, how we're going to improve the environment - lie before we renew our service contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u263	A respectable president. Thank you very much for the answers. The other thing I wanted to come on, she actually mentioned in answer to another inquiry just before. I was very happy when I heard a minister describe his policy and will, more than once, if I recall correctly, even here at the Senate Hall, that she wanted to pursue technical education, trade education, and any form of professional education higher than at present. Now she had striking numbers right before, which I just didn't realize, that there were only 12% of young people in Iceland who went to work for this kind of education, while the percentage was much higher elsewhere and up to 30%. I think this is a key. That instead of shoveling, or straight, so we use polite language, sort of everyone through student exams, and staying up in college and through it in booky articles, we are responding to the demand for a new education in a labour market better than we do today. So I ask the minister: "Where do we see this place in the financial program we're discussing here, to the highest level? Minister's gonna do something about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u264	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. Senator. The important thing is that we are setting priorities in this situation, as we have discussed. First, we have canceled the expenses at high school. Second, we are greatly increasing the budget for the high school, which means that we can set priorities for these VISTs, industrial, occupational, and technology. We're doing it, including. with the expenses, as well as the work we're filing. I also feel that there is a much more active conversation with my professional life. We are also working on so-called skill assessments, i.e. Advertising, trying to predict the future. Of course, it is always very difficult to see the future, what will become the needs of employment. What are they today? What will they be in the future? Clearly, we will always need a certain education in exactly the ones we are referring to. It's a fantasy to think we can't take care of it. But we've been setting up money on this kind of thing, as I've mentioned. I also think, as I mentioned earlier, about basic school levels and choices, how they've been reducing their youth levels, that there's a clear line between them and what Icelandic students in their youth choose next.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u265	A respectable president. It is of great interest to consider the contributions presented in a financial program at the top of the topic areas. Secretary of education and culture. At first, I would like to ask each of the costs at The House of Icelandic English. It affects the money going to college. Second, I see that the only objective of the media government is to reduce taxes to 11%. Yet, this tax reduction is not part of government tax policy. Then I ask: What does a minister need 700 million more than the 400 million who would be determined to give in that period? If the 2% claim was calculated all the years, it would result in a total total of 400 million in the final year of the budget. There is a difference of 1.1 billion, an increase in financial contributions. But what to do with this coin is not explained by any actions. It's missing. I would like to see, aims, and policy by the government, explaining that when it comes to raising funds to some area of matter. It's missing. That's why I'm asking. The sum is between 2019 and 2023 400 million. decrease. V.E.G. A minister said on a perpetition that we wanted to continue supporting Icelandic movie and TV shows. If this does not appear in the culture's language, where financial contributions are diminished, where does that come about? Why, then, are the contributions made to culture being reduced?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u266	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. For Icelandic students, the fact that we are having a reevaluation of the cost of a project that is urgent because we are going to see a measure of commitment in this regard. I find it a little difficult to mention a number of these matters at this point until I get this revised plan. Clearly, we expect deduction of the valuable tax on books and a reduction in the media around 800 million. K. On the income side. I think it's urgent that we go to this operation, including... Because a book edition has been under attack, as everyone knows, and the media too. I believe this is a necessary procedure in promoting the publishing and the media of Iceland. I'd like to pray. A senator going a little better into this 700 billion. Well, I just have to admit that I need a little more explanation about them. In terms of culture and art, it is true that this series of issues should be settled. We need to continue working on how we can set priorities, but I feel that it is very important that we put up a new budget in a year. I will continue to fight for these lawsuits and count extraordinary numbers of opportunities for our culture. She's growing. Everything that has to do with creative articles. We will continue to focus on this party as much as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u267	A respectable president. First, there are 4.5 billion in the 2029 press, with 5.23. That's an increase of 700 million. [[Up front.]] in the media, but there are no goals. Now it's making the best of it. A minister, therefore, to the fact that the income that is thus being seen in these metabolic areas is reducing 800 million. All of a sudden, it's 1.5 billion. a failure to explain in a financial program. If I'm going to go along with a financial program that you don't really know what's going on, at least I'd like an explanation. In terms of culture, art, sports, and youth, however, there are several goals, but to lower financial contributions. I feel a little uncomfortable hearing that this is supposed to be a five-year financial plan. If the next year or the next year, there should be additional financial contributions now, not after 2 to 3 years, although it has failed for 2019. For a word at the highest. Ministers make me feel a little bit like there's nothing to limit 2020 plus the numbers if it's just that they'll be revised, possibly, in a second or the next financial plan. At least I'd like that not to be taken care of. As time goes on, new assignments arise. No problem with that. While such goals are set, financial contributions are minimized.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u268	A respectable president. That's 700 million in an increase there, collects on a radio bill, that's why. I agree with what. A senator, perhaps we could have said that in another way or given a better explanation. But here, I'll explain. In terms of culture, art, sports, and youth work: What we are also doing with our cultural background, but we don't see the evidence in the budget, it's reducing the income foundation for books of value taxation. As a result, we are, of course, promoting culture in the country by increasing and supporting the publication. I think the multiplication effect of that is going to be considerable. This also applies to the media; we're lowering the value tax and we're going to have action. Not to be overlooked is the prospect on the income side. Despite the appearance of a certain reduction in the subject, there is, in fact, an increase through the decline in the sector's income. Of course, I'm contented by a professional minister. On the other hand, like a whale. A senator knows, you always want to do better when you're ambitious for your party. But you're right, this is very urgent, and of course this plan will reveal the future and the way we think about it. But, hey. However, a senator must forgive, even though the minister always has certain ideas about how to improve and do better for his case.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u269	Madam President. I'd like to start by describing my joy with the big picture at the top. Secretary of education and culture. I would especially like to welcome the emphasis that can be read in the text with the financial program that is designed to improve the position of students with a foreign language, as well as at all school levels, and all aspects of the education of people of a foreign background. I think, for example. How important it is that we also refer to higher education for immigrants! There I believe that one very small, innocent article on which ways of learning could especially meet the needs of women of foreign background was of particular concern. I think this is absolutely important to people of foreign origin and to those with native languages other than Icelandic can become active participants in Icelandic society. However, it is in one place where I feel that it can be done, that is in sports and youth and culture and art, although it is true that children's culture and participation in cultures are particularly important to me. I'd like to ask a minister if she agrees with me in this and would like to give us the thought that, of course, we need to increase the overall involvement of people of a foreign background in this area. It can truly benefit an Icelandic society, as it did those in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u270	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this good inquiry and comments on the financial program. In recent years, I would like to first mention that children of a foreign - language school system have grown dramatically. Research also suggests that their situation in the Icelandic school system might be viewed as a better one, so I feel very important that we strengthen the setting around them. Their reception needs to be reinforced. They need to develop Icelandic education so that they have the same tools as other children in the school system. We must not forget, these are all Icelandic children who are learning here. I'd like to mention two things that matter to me. During our high school years, we put this group in particular 800 million each year, which has shown little skills in Icelandic and math, including the U.S.A. because these are the ones most likely to be eliminated in high school. Second, I'd like to mention that we were making changes in the terms of LIN so that for the first time, people who enjoy international protection in Iceland will have the opportunity to apply for loans from Icelandic students. I'm very happy that the Board of Governments suggested this, and it's a big step forward. Regarding sports and the availability of foreign - American children to sports, I believe that it is of utmost importance. It is often through sports and music that children do not get involved in any other way than in the classroom. So I agree with what. A senator says it's very important and important.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u271	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and here, I think we're on the right track, we're setting the right priorities, and I think this can bring back to all of us who live here a better community. I want to come in on something else, but it has to do with that, like the highest. A minister said that there is a large part of the withdrawal from high school students who have a different language. In general, there is something addressed in this financial program and it is evident that there is a willingness to take action to promote national education. In fact, the fact that Iceland seems to be quite successful with other northern nations when it comes to the fact that there are not so many people here who seem to be passive in the community because of a deportation. Still, we have talked a lot about an inactive group that is so young people who enter a disability pension. I don't know if these groups overlap. I think there's probably some overlap, but I don't know how much it is. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it doesn't have to connect these two things right now when we're talking about changing the micro-organization system with increased emphasis on creating rehabilitation, whether we don't have to connect this into the after-school education, making sure we don't get into boxing thoughts, but that here there's going to be a lot of relevant information and additional work to cover this group. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u272	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator, it is very important that the Ministry cooperates with those at risk of elimination or disappears from high school because this is often related. We see very often clues at the elementary school on who is most likely to enter the elimination phase. We also see evidence of who, then, is likely to land on disability. Therefore, it is so important that our educational system is varied that as many individuals can find something that is appropriate for them. I firmly believe that everyone has a talent for something. That's why I feel that leisure activities are so important to me. I wanted to mention it, too, when we're talking about children of foreign origin that I believe that the rural society has done a tremendously good tournament with its vacation cards, providing all children with the right to access leisure time, whether it is music or sports, regardless of the economic situation of the family. This has completely changed the landscape of leisure and leisure activities in Iceland. So now it's just that we've done very well lately in soccer, as well as in music. Why? This is because we have invested very much in the construction of athletes and music programs. There are music schools all over the country, huge ambitions. I think it's so urgent that we hold on to this and that access is good, and it's really independent of the population and economy of the children.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u273	Madam President. The minister began his speech by saying: "The restoration of the Icelandic educational system has begun. This includes great promises from a minister, and with this she strives to build high expectations of her work and of her colleagues, so that much demands must be made to her thereafter. We have so many excellent schools in our country, and many very talented, talented students. Yet, Madam President, there are signs that there are offenders at school. I want to make a special discussion about the position of boys, boys, and young men in the school system. The fact that young people and especially boys do not read well or with lacquer understanding from high school is striking to say the least. So are the figures of the withdrawal of high school boys. There is further evidence that young men, boys, boys, and young men cannot find themselves in the school system. Therefore, I would like to ask a minister: Do the Ministers believe that it is in his own way and within his field of work to take credit or to look for reasons why boys or young men are less responsible for the school system than young women? [[The president calls.]] If these figures were on the other side, if they were leaning on the opposite sex in the way here, then I'm afraid there's a lot of noise coming out of the corner. [[The president calls.]] I've previously allowed myself to say, "This group has no proverbs in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u274	I want to pray. Councilmen to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u275	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for very good advice on the position of boys in Icelandic school systems and their prospects. I would like to know before I begin to mention that the restoration of the Icelandic educational system will be carried out in the school community. As we sit here, we create a set frame, and we are doing it by increasing the budget, but we are, like, driving. A senator knows very well, has himself served in that field, with an enormous amount of strong school people all over the country at all school levels. With regard to the status of young boys in Icelandic school, I agree. Senator, that's what I'm worried about. Of course, I'm concerned that their elimination is considerably higher, those who are less qualified for reading and increasing it. I want to be a part of it with what. A senator is simply evaluating the reasons for such a situation. We were now publishing on the website of the Ministry of Education and Culture, a joint European report on the status of university students in Europe and Iceland is participating for the first time. One point is that 63% of all college students are women. We can see that there has also been a growing number of women. Of course, it's very good, but it's not good that there's such an overexcited gender difference in key violations, such as elimination and educational status of that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u276	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'm glad that a minister makes clear that this is a practical subject. This is actually a serious problem in our society. I haven't mentioned all the factors involved. Some of these have very dark aspects, to say the least. I think everyone knows what they're talking about there. As a result, I expect to be expected from a minister's talk that will be considered by qualified experts to explain what is in the Icelandic school system that makes people, as well as males, not doing well or not feeling well at school. I'm just gonna let me quote a memorable phrase from the campaign, where my nice party partner, the Reverend Dr. Halldór Gunnarsson of Holti, was on a TV show on academic matters, and at times I've reminded him of what I've been referring to since then: The main thing is that children are doing well in school and in the teachers too. That's a good line. I also want to use this opportunity to remind you that since I'm talking about the campaign, a lot of talk was made about getting the place to be in industry, including that. by introducing to young people who are contemplating their future career courses, employment opportunities, and the potential for industrial education. I'd like to allow myself to enter a minister, depending on what she can see in her life on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u277	A respectable president. I agree completely with what Halldór in Holti says is the most important thing in our education systems in Iceland. One major factor in international research is that even though other standards show that they have deteriorated in order to make their readings, natural locks, and math locks, they feel good. We need to hold on to it, but we also need to develop a certain skill in the other aspects. I just want to take this offer as a matter of course. A senator proposes to this meeting to follow this assessment. We face several major challenges in education. One is to form the position of children of foreign origin; another is the position of young boys in our educational system. You're absolutely right. A senator who mentions both these statistics and certain facts about the position of young men in Icelandic society. I find it very important that we find out why the situation is like this, how we can improve and expand our opportunities for this group. For my industrial education, I find it very important that we go to elementary school. As I've mentioned here, there's a considerable number of selections at adolescence. If we have fewer choices, students really don't know what is available, so I think it's very important that we have a conversation with the local government stage on how we can achieve the goals we set for creative articles and other choices that will be of great benefit when it comes to choosing a study for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u278	Madam President. What a joy it is to listen to the highest! A minister of education is talking about increased emphasis on academic matters. It's extremely important -- top priority. A minister of education has decided to pull away - it is vital that we put higher emphasis on education. [[Take it up, it's your party sister who's...]] Of course, we know that the future community is based on knowledge, skills, and increased emphasis on education. Hence, it is a joy to see that this is the very thing being done. Actually, I'm at the highest. The minister is a bit dramatic when speaking of high education when it comes to the conclusion that contributions to the seminary are being made at a total of about One percent a year from the previous financial programme. It's certainly an increase, I'm not going to belittle it, but a big offense doesn't count it. However, looking at this important group of subjects, I still feel that this talk is still very superficial. I find financial goals very vague and hairy and that they have actually changed from their previous financial plans and have further reduced clear goals. I think that's exactly what needs to be considered in the beginning. What will we get out of this increased budget? What results do we really want? What's this going to be? What I would be interested in is hearing the highest. A minister might speak more carefully about the fundamental results it offers at each school level. Of course, we must not forget basic schools, even though he is a major objector to the responsibility of the local community, he is a serious professional authority on the authority of the government here. I would also be interested to hear more about the focus of a minister when it comes to university, and especially to the technical fields and development of technology, which is just one success scale that falls out of a previous financial programme, which gave clear goals on how we would increase the education of students in the technical fields at the university level, which is now being removed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I wondered: Are we putting less emphasis on this, because that is where we are most behind other OECD countries when it comes to the percentage of students who attend the college technical branches? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u279	I don't know. Councilmen again at the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u280	A respectable president. There has been a large increase in budgets, both in college and in high school, in which we have not seen so much increase since 2016 and then into the future for quite a while. It knows why. A senator very well. In terms of policy development and as far as we are going to get it for this huge parish that it is, I think it is, and you're going to realize that there is more optimism now at the university in regard to these new government funds. Of course, we want to increase the number of graduates at the university. We want to increase the number of graduates from high school. We want to increase the number of graduates from industry, technology and engineering. This ratio is much lower in Iceland. How do we do that? Yes, we set specific goals to look after the choices, as I mentioned earlier, that we reach certain goals at the elementary school that are related to selections. If the sensors have access to the selection, they will understand what is available. These are the goals we are setting for ourselves. Like what? A senator likely knows that in a relatively short period of time, I would say in the past 103/4:15 years; the level of education of the nation is rising quite rapidly. This is true in high school. It was about 45% or 48%, but it's up to 55%. We're setting the goal on 60%. We are also setting goals for industrial education, to have more to go there. We have clear measures to increase access to these articles. I think the plan we've set is completely realistic. The study and attendance of students to do so need to reflect what is also taking place in the controlled countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u281	Madam President. V.E.G. Minister will just have to forgive me for having only a little bit of fun here, because a year ago, the emphasis on education was just too much, considering the local senator, Alfreðsdóttir Alfredddddóttir. But now, 1% a year, and we're in big trouble. Of course, it is interesting to listen to this dramatic change of attitude, for I say again and again: It's probably the size of the agglomerate in the Icelandic budget, 1% a year. When it comes to my training, I've been through my professional life for many years, talking a lot about the importance of school and a lot about how we're going to reach students. But I am no closer when I read a financial program on how to succeed. I feel that this is a repeat subject of something that has not worked and that is the very result that it is rather that it reduces the number of jobs now than the number. It's not getting the change we've been after in the course, that's very sad. I'm not going to teach the highest. Minister on it, it's absolutely far from me. But I feel that we must be more ambitious, clearer as to how we are going to succeed in this. One of the things I would like to hear is a minister's viewpoint when it comes to research at a university level, which may be the main thing where we are a substantial submerge of other nations when it comes to contributions to university levels, and that is exactly what research does. So today, the vast majority of the budget tied to research at the University of Iceland. I'd like to hear the norm. A minister on how to increase funding for research and whether to provide access to other colleges also through some kind of competitive fund. I think it is of utmost importance when we study at university that we watch a wide variety of research and remember that there are more than one university here and more than two. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is the University of Akureyri, that is the University of Reykjavík and others, who also need access to such funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u282	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, of course, is very important to support research and development and innovation, of course. During this period, we are adding less than 9% of our donations. I also feel very urgent, and I completely agree with it. A senator, that this money is evenly distributed, i.e. The share of this research project must also reflect the current university activity. So I think I want to put myself in that situation, and I think it matters. In the case of our industry, the work and the work, I believe that it is very important that we continue on the way we have been, but we need to do better. We've just seen the Anti-Hagain numbers, where there's actually a decrease. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that if we don't take real steps and offer serious options in this regard, there is a high possibility that a certain artalist will not be present in the country. So I'd like to offer you a why. A senator participating in this journey with us. I know that he knows the matter especially well because of his previous activity. It's also such a project that we need to take it to high school, we need to be more active in high school. This too is so that we need to work with our professional life in particular. This has to be simplified to the entire administration system. That's what we're doing. But all good ideas from what happened. A senator is very well - versed in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u283	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Education and cultural secretary first plans for the promotion of high-school employment and then the access to education. In 1997, Jón Torfi Jónasson wrote an article in the magazine Social Sciences at the University of Iceland, which gave the headline legends from the school system. There he presents six statements on the development of the Icelandic school system, and with logic he brings them all into question. One of these statements is on the development of secondary education, and it is presented in high school law since 1996. When Jón Torfi writes the article in 1997, the proportion of high school seniors is 28%, which is almost the same proportion as in the budget set for 2016. In the Netherlands and Sweden, the number is comparable to that in Germany 80%. Jón Torfi points out that if a high school education is important, including Based on the viewpoint of students or professional life, it is not later a good thing to turn over. For a long time, this has been agreed on in discussions about school reforms. That's still the way it is today. Jón Torfi conclusion is that there will not be a transition to the development of traditional high school labor practices, and its implications will therefore continue to decline. The social development in which it is determined does not seem to allow anything else or at least make it difficult to restore labor in high school. It's kind of been going along. The financial program for the next five years speaks of promoting research in the fields of diversity and intensive society and reviewing the 2008 high school law. I'm asking the highest. Education minister of what it is in social development or the expectations of students and professional life that increase the likelihood that these fine goals will be achieved more in the next five years than in the last two decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u284	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for pointing out Jón Torfi, the son of Jónasson's article and that it was written in 1997, pointing to these proportions, what they were striking and how they are still striking. Hv. A senator asks how we will succeed, how we will reverse this trend. I'm going to mention some of the things I've mentioned before, but I'm going to do them again. First of all, even. due to comments and tip-offs. A senator, then we stressed the removal of material charges. A senator knows, and I believe it was an important factor. Thank you. A senator for his cooperation. Second, we are simplifying and promoting all the governance that is linked to work and industry in the country. That work has now been going on for a certain time. This is to improve the bioavailability for some except, at times, it has not felt quite clear whether or not they, e.g. deals or how these things are handled. We need to simplify our access to the study so that they can be certain of what will become available to them. We're doing and introducing an electronic history book that I think matters too. An organization around the study will then be more efficient. We set goals to increase the number of students in our trade, and we need to apply them. We look to the basic school phase, and we are critical of the way the organization of selections is done, as I have mentioned. I hope we're successful, we're working hard, but I agree with that. A senator on how this development has been; it has not been good enough at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u285	Madam President. I really hope that success will be achieved by these measures at the highest level. Ministers announce, though I may question it, but she has my full support in these matters. The financial program discusses the reduction of high school students, which has been the most recent in small schools outside the capital area. It is said that this is a challenge to keep out enough study, it is harder for a qualified teacher to get a full - time education, and it may be harder to meet professional requirements for long - term support and management in school. In fact, studies conducted by students in Icelandic high school show that access to education is important to the country's level of education, and it can be assumed that if the level of education is serious, it must improve its availability rather than make it more difficult for youths to pursue higher education. What's going to happen? Education Ministers to keep smaller schools out of the country, making sure that access to research in the country is only worse than it has been?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u286	A respectable president. I appreciate the inquiry that's very good. It is not that long ago the decrease in high school phase occurred, and it is now becoming clear what the effect is, and this is one of the things mentioned. There are challenges to coping with the changes that follow. One of the positive results of the shortcut is that financial contributions per student are increasing considerably. We will have reached some 1.6 million in 2020, so the setting around high school is getting stronger. Of course, I hope so. I want to work with the school champions and school directors in the country on this matter. If there's any further dangers in the course of less education, we need to deal with it, and I want to have a very active conversation with those in charge of these schools in order to give us some tips so that we can direct money to them. [[The president calls.]] You're right. A senator says, the absolute availability of study is essential.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u287	V.E.G. President. I am in a place similar to that of many former speakers. The chapter on high school shows that in 2016 60% of high school students went to student courses and 30% received training courses. The percentage of students who attend my schooling is low. There is a shortage of industrialized people in the country, and it is necessary for governments to promote industrial studies in an organized way, even in some way. Industrialization is very important to the community. The information and presentation work that is already not enough, needs to be encouraged more. The government covenant speaks of strengthening the mines. I can't see that there's some kind of effort in a government plan until the next five years, and I'm sorry. It's a nice thing to say about things, but that's it. Similarly, I don't think that students of foreign background are being held well enough. Their drop from high school is very high or about 60%, this was observed with in response to the Ministry of Education at the 146th legislation for the inquiry of a member of Congress, Nichole Leigh Mosty. The plan says that the government will only investigate the situation, but it doesn't have to be checked, it's already done, it's very clear in the answer. It is good to consider other recommendations that have come up to counteract elimination, such as the sentence of a public college. To lower elimination criteria by 3 percentage points in five years from 25% to 22%, I don't think that ambition is an ambitious goal. [[The president calls.]] A positive result is that they will continue to revise the distribution of funds to a high school with a so - called calculus. [[The president calls.]] It's an important project, and to be honest, I don't understand how some colleges always get bad out of this model in budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u288	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator on the importance of improving his education in Iceland. I agree with what. A senator on the importance of improving the status of children of foreign origin. What is the government doing in this regard? I disagree. A senator says we're not doing anything. You see, we're doing a lot of work. Today, we are defending 800 million particularly in this vulnerable group of students who show little skills in Icelandic and math. Who are these students? Yes, these are the students who are most likely to leave school. So right away in the new budget, the government took December 1st, we put our priorities in behalf of those who are likely to be expelled. Like what? A senator knows that the death of children of foreign origin is very high school in Iceland, and I think it's very serious, and I'm really worried about what the future prospects of the children will be if we don't go into this. This funding I was referring to is directly involved in this group. I'm not sure what. A senator who had previously seen in a financial program dealt similarly with children of foreign origin. Hv. A senator can trust that we are truly going to do better, and there I am also looking to promote Icelandic education for this group and to increase the availability of these children to leisure activities in cooperation with rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u289	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for that answer. That's right, I haven't read a lot of financial plans before, but I'm glad that this is the way and the best way to live. I would like to speak in my second speech to mention a few items from my district, the Northwestern district, that is a big, difficult review. There has been a lot of work development in the district, e.g. In the West, and in the northern part of the West, and it's a joy. This job structure requires more education and more frequent industrial and technical education. The University of Snæfells in Gravitors has been doing some of the same. Far - off education, which may not be a personal industry, is quite useful to Westerns. I know it's the highest. A minister is interested in these matters and has discussed the development of technical and industrial education. Go to the Northwestern District. In fact, during a period of time, the Congregation School of Innunia has been under attack to shut it down, but fortunately it was averted. [[The president calls.]] I would like to ask the minister: Is there any news of future plans for the fine school? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u290	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and pointing to the Northwestern district. Of course, it is of great importance that access unless a good study is equal to all parts of the country and one of the things we've been doing is to create that it is now starting a new class at the University of West, which is related to marine geographic studies. It's the university that uses the local and the environment where I think it's very important. Regarding the Innún, I had a recent meeting with the principal there, where we were going over the next steps and what the prospects were. I am very optimistic about school because I believe that there is a great deal of value in the continued development of food in Iceland. We have clean and wholesome foods that are very special. So I am very optimistic about the future of the school.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u291	President. Here only the Art University was spoken of, but I wanted to have a routine on those issues. In recent years students and teachers of the Art Institute have complained about school service and housing. During January it went so far that students did not intend to pay the cost of our 2018 schools. With that declaration, students of the Art University sent a letter away. It, by permission of the president, says: For years, students of the world list have complained about bad equipment and service to themselves without being met properly. On the contrary, the circumstances of students in the field art department have worsened as school costs increase with each passing year. Students mentioned a person's diet, a dressing room, and a arcade that was extremely difficult to deal with, a promise that there was no promise of international study, as well as that it would not be provided for the situation that is natural for students who study at the Art Institute. As a minister no doubt knows, the facility that is now infected with mold and depravity is now infected. The school room leaks out of the mouth and out of the air. Of the current financial agenda, I cannot see the real issue of Iceland's Art University. Does Ministers believe that the work and housing of Iceland's Art University can be properly met by the figures presented here in a financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u292	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up a question on the affairs of the National Institute of the Arts. That is correct, which is expressed in the matter of both. A senator, at the Art Institute today, is a difficult situation for him. That's why we've been putting in extra funds to transport the operation in Saturday. We are also in the final meters of need analysis regarding the future residence of the Art University. I think it is of great importance that the future issues of the Art University will be good. One of the largest growth marks for new employment opportunities is creative articles. We are achieving tremendous success in this regard. The setting around the Art Institute must be better and more ambitious. However, we are importing most of our activity into Saturdays these days, and I think the school staff and students are very ambitious about the future. We're in the final meters for future emergency analysis. I can't wait to see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u293	I appreciate those answers. I just wanted to kill in the middle and middle school cases. Do they expect extra funding into elementary school? If so, am I inclined to consider whether financial support is being made so that the teachers who are there can use their professional education in a way that they think is most suitable for the educational environment? ' What will a minister do to ensure the growth of professional teachers at a preschool and show that they will be reduced over the next few years?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u294	A respectable president. It is clear that one of the major challenges we face in the modern education system is that a recent class of teachers has not been the one that wishful ones would have been. We observe that if we do not engage in any action, there will be a shortage of about 2,000 high school teachers in 2035. At the same time, high school rates are increasing, i.e. We're looking at a stream that will be some 5,700 people around us. So it is clear in my mind that we must, and are doing it, take action to see the growth in high school and elementary school. This is what we must do in cooperation and cooperation with teachers, with teachers' leaders, with the Icelandic community, the university degree. I'm going to go over it in a better void with a what. A senator what measures we are taking exactly.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u295	A respectable president. We are here discussing a proposal for interpretation of the government budget for the next five years, and we are now making special discussions with the world's highest level. Secretary of education and culture. Of course, there are a few things in her area that I'm interested in. The Ministry's topic areas are quite a few; museums, cultural institutions, sports and youth, as well as the educational system, high school and college, as well as the Minister's administration. First, I would like to mention my special pleasure in suggesting that there is a proposal for a interpretation of the condition of the Icelandic language and would like to sharpen the highest degree. Minister to stand constant guard of the Icelandic. There is much more important to our independence as a nation. I'm going to get involved in the affairs of culture, art, sports, youth, just one question about that. Under these teams, No. 18 At the proposal, a small reduction in the next five years or from 14 billion next year, 2019, is expected to be 13.5 billion in 2023. So I ask the highest. Education Minister: Where should this planned cut most come from? Second, I'm going to point out that the proposal has discussed improving the availability of culture and art so that more people can enjoy them. That's where I want to say every word and encourage the highest. Minister to act. In many parts of the country, residents enjoy little cultural activity that usually takes place in the capital area at the expense of all the taxpayers of this country, although they can certainly see it on television or listen to radio programs. That's why I'm asking the highest. Ministers, if she can better explain to me what this aim is for better access to everyone's culture and art in the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u296	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing up an issue with the synoptic decrees to put the Icelandic in the first place. We're in the final meters, finishing that council resolution, and I can't wait to share it with her. A senator and the emphasis we put forth there. I'd like to mention this about the 18th matter area, that it's being held in a field like a rough one. A senator correctly mentions. We haven't done it yet. However, while there is some reduction, there is also a particular rise, as I have mentioned, when we decommission the merit tax on publication, when we lower the merit tax on the media so I think that this topic area will continue to grow and thrive. Regarding cultural activity and cultural access, it is stated in the budget that we have the goal of supporting the development of cultural buildings in the East and Northwestern districts. I think I can say we'll see the first steps in it, that we can build a cultural building in this area. As soon as we do, we are, of course, increasing our access to cultural activity in these parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u297	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A minister of education for her answers. I have more questions. Regarding the availability of culture, she referred to a place of culture, and we know it, in some places it has come to pass, and it is well known. But I especially mean operations like the Symphony and the Opera, and other things that are spent by us all the taxpayers, that these institutions are going further throughout the country. I know they have, but I now lived 16 years in the Western Islands, and I don't remember them coming there at that time. I won't absolutely say it. With the publication, I would especially like to welcome the loss of an additional tax from the publication and in the past. Something else I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to the national stadium in the Valley of Saturday. Our team of football is so strong that it is not possible to see them with our eyes unless you are particularly skilled in the middle of the field. It says this about goals: Exhibit and support for successful athletes. There is also the conversation with Reykjavíkurburg and the sports movement on building a national stadium in Saturday. [[The president calls.]] What does that mean? Is there any funding to the development of the Saturday National Stadium during the season, as we have discussed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u298	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator would mention the accomplishments of the Icelandic team in soccer, both men and women. Of course, it is historic that so few people are sending their national teams to the playoffs, to the World Cup soccer championships, and to wish the team all the best. In terms of national stadiums, huge labors have taken place in a group of people, and they are giving suggestions on this. We are in my Ministry to complete a national arena, so we are certainly doing this vital task. Of course, increasing the availability of the country's activities is also being guided, and it is just as possible. One senator noted that it has been quite difficult to get a ticket to such popular soccer because of today's interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u299	Madam President. I would like to ask the highest part of my first talk. Minister only to elementary school. I'm quite worried about the state of the elementary school, and although in the OECD comparison we are so often referring to, we have one of the most expensive elementary levels, we're not seeing the results we would like. It is also quite clear that the pressures we have made teachers in the elementary class are enormously high. It even reflects. in that there seems to be a lot of cold work there, a very common practice of teachers who burn out and quit. In fact, we find that less than half of the educated elementary school teachers are teaching in elementary schools today. This is linked with a number of other women's classes, large groups of women, who work primarily in the public field. There have been published programs that may be missing about two thousand teachers over the years at the elementary school, and that is a major concern. Of course, we do not build a powerful, flourishing educational system without teachers who are supposed to be teaching the young people. I would be interested in hearing the highest point of view. Ministers, both when it comes to critical matters, that the Ministry's management, which puts professional requirements, does not have sufficient contact with elementary school itself. But what is also obvious in these design problems is that wages are no longer competitive at the elementary school level, and it's actually an unusually high pay difference when you watch the OECD comparison between high school and high school levels. What's the big deal? A minister of this? Because it's clear that the problem needs to be addressed. Of course, it's just a traditional problem of supply and demand, which I know is the highest. Ministers well aware, and the level of pay should of course be increased if at school. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u300	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for reviewing the position of a teacher and how important their work is. We wholeheartedly agree on this. Clearly, some drastic measures are needed to cope with this trend. Of course, you do not always want to be in the position of responding to some negative trend, but that is the situation today. I've been joined by the joint suggestions of the Union, the teacher president, the university degree, on what we need to do as early as possible. I completely agree with what's presented in a case. A senator says it's about pay. There's been a big difference between high school and high school. We're just gonna have to be a nation to deal with this together. I just want to go over these operations. One of the points we are considering is the fiveth year's paid field study. Another point we're looking at is the loan fund of Icelandic students. Can we put a certain impulse on it? Now it's a complete review. Can we install into our system? Can we come with strength? That's what we need to think about. All studies of education show that if the teacher is happy, the students will be happy and the performance will be better. In March, OECD's report was being published, showing that the more happy the teacher is, the better the student's performance is with the students. So I wholeheartedly agree. A senator that we all need to gather together if we are to succeed as a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u301	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for good answers. I think it's obvious that this serious problem is being paid attention to at the Ministry. The first thoughts that are being worked out by sound a number of very sensible ones. I think, however, that if we look at the pay of teachers at high school - and of course we are dealing with similar problems at Land Hospitals for Nurses as famous as they are - we need to cover these large women's classes that are obviously too low on their education and opportunities to work elsewhere in better terms, even under less stress, more comfortable hours, etc. If there's not a lot of work experience, I don't give in this case anything for this traditional stability thing, that here we put everything on our side by dealing with this problem. [[The president calls.]] It is obvious that the general labour market is dealing with problems like this every day by raising pay to groups that are especially demand - or missing. The public pay system cannot handle this. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, in these groups, especially in these large groups of women, this has become a major problem. I hope to the highest. A minister joins us in handling this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u302	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator's approach to this subject and his diagnosis. This is a real problem in women's classes, and there is something else that has been happening that the pressures of teachers have gone up tremendously. Now we've just finished an analysis of how education, education, and education for everyone, and one of the basic schools, is that teachers believe that pressures have been increasing and have linked to this policy, but it's a social agreement that we want to have school policy so that everyone has the opportunity to educate themselves and we're supposed to meet the special needs of students in the general system. But when we're doing it, we have to prioritize money where it's most stressful. We haven't been doing that. Our neighbors have, however, done so, and I believe that it is long time, and we are going on a journey honestly to improve our position and strengthen the teacher's setting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u303	A respectable president. In short, I'm going to include the emphasis on the classes I work with, agriculture, fishing and fish farms, and part of innovation and research, the university levels of the agricultural university, and so is the Ministry under the management of marine espionage and agricultural ministers under Presidential decision. These funding teams are a total of approximately 25 billion a year, 24.478 million. K. in 2018. Of course, the largest teams involved are agriculture, where the livestock contracts are the largest. If we look at the scope of the agricultural industry, the total quantity of agricultural production in Iceland is just over 70 billion, 69 billion per year. There are about 4,200 farms in an apartment, 3,200 of them have farming, production meat, eggs, and milk. The gardening industry, as well as tourism and other occupations, has a large amount of activity. This is 1.8% workforce at the labour market, which is directly at the agriculture site, and then we have some 7,000 related jobs. Similarly, if we look at the seabed, it is a very important industry for the country, 4% of its labor forces work on fishing, fishing, and fishing. But if we watch jobs in these branches outside the capital area, it's about 10% of our labor force. Similarly, the marine soil has produced an abundance of value, production value of more than 200 billion in 2017, however, has been added and has not been lower since 2008. The total power of Icelandic ships was some 1,120,000 tons, which was divided into 450,000 tons of bottom fish and 670,000 tons of ocean fish. There's a lot of compromise, and when I discuss that 10% of the workers in the country's labour market work with these two things, let's bear in mind that a huge number of secondary jobs have to do with the marine road. The largest projects in this sector, both for the year and for the next two to three years, have to work on the competitiveness of the marine road and the agricultural products. The status of the fishing road must be strengthened in competition with foreign manufacturers, and agriculture in this country must be maintained, allowing farmers to cultivate new forests, as it were, by making it possible for them to change the focus of their farming. It also presents a major challenge in agriculture as well as in the fishing road. In the field of agriculture, there are special factors involved in increasing tollovates, more freedom to import agrienvironmental products. In addition, factors involved in what has been described as the fast - moving issue of the flesh, as tasteful as it is today, are attracted to the introduction of certain ships from the European Union in Icelandic rights. That is, as they say, many of the experience, and many plans for farming, especially in agriculture. But at the end of this brief talk, I want to discuss a subject that was discussed during the council this week and that will become an enormous discussion and is important, regardless of how humans approach it. The country's building a fish farm. It is building a new industry with great force. It requires that we deal with the structure, not only with the natural world but also with all due respect, but also with the environment. I believe that there is a great opportunity there if we have the wisdom to work on the progress and structure of this sector of reason and responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u304	Madam President. A financial program shows that there is a review of the fish price laws. It has called for a reduction in hunting fees, and several government officials have said they wanted to respond to that call. The country has the right to gain a fair amount of money from its resources, and politicians are not to run to and lower the nation's share as soon as the deportation complains. It is our opinion in the United States that the best way to get the full price for the fishing resource is to provide resources. If the government groups do not want to offer out the food that has already been assigned, they should at least offer additional parleys for strong fish stocks. The cod stock has never been greater than the last observation by the Institute of Marine Research. Thus, it will seem very likely that a proposal for supplementary dishes would appear before the next fishing year, as for the last year, with almost twice the last ten fish years, leaving 130 of yours. ... to258you. a ton. During the last three years of fishing, the codfish has been increased by a total of 40. a ton. An assessment of the Marine Research Institute strongly suggests that in the coming fishing years, the dinner will still be increased. If the fishing law cannot be changed in the next few weeks, then the additional food for the current saying muster crew will be changed in the next fish year as for the first. So I ask the highest. A seaman minister, if it is really intended, just once more, to switch the extra boxing between the present seamen at the next fishing year? If the answer is yes, I pray to the highest. Secretary of the sea to explain to me why he wants to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u305	A respectable president. Thank you. The inquirer's question, and he would like to give it up in its words, here the debate over the fishing fee, their money, has lasted a long time. This debate began, and it began with a great deal of weight when the effects of the breakout of markets began, shutting down the Russian market specifically, and a mischievous market in Nigeria, and a number of factors played in it; while progress was developing in such a way that this industry had a very difficult time. This discussion has lasted for two years, so I don't agree that there should be some business involved, whether it's a fishing road or something, complaining about how to pay a price. It is only to approach matters in a balanced way and to make wise decisions. Ask questions that arise. There's a senator up here, about strong fish stocks and possible quota additions, and I haven't seen any suggestions yet. I have heard of the data and, fortunately, we agree that the fish stocks are enormously strong, and the fishing system that Iceland has had, although it has long been controversial, has proved to be strong. I don't think we should offer fish parvota. It is my conviction that the arrangement for the management of Iceland's fish trades has provided them with a very lucrative fishing system, i.e. for the people. It's a fishing road that stands in the front order, and it compares everything to a seabed wherever we look in the world. We're proud of it. I'm afraid it's indiscriminate by running quickly. We're here to take note of this, but I'm not in that place today that I answer yes to that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u306	Madam President. The powers given are considerable, and the decisions they make may be the future of sailors, commercial workers, families, and entire settlements. Before the peddler system, a young, progressive seamen could have their own structure without asking a king or a priest. Of course, they did have to finance their boat and fishing gear, not saying goodbye. In other words, they now have no choice but to buy a market for one year, to rent a quota of those whom the State has assigned to him. That price, though, has been in the shape of the heavens. According to the Fish Room, the price has been between 150 constituted and 200 km. for the kilogram of cod on the last three. To balance the status of those who are already in the fishing business and of those who are considering starting the project, the distribution of the quatane needs to be made more reasonable. One way is by which our cousins are developing, and the peers have long spoken for, i.e. that it is not to be given to all who received it last year, but to all have the right to rent it from the owners of the resource, the Icelandic nation. In the Faeroe Islands, auctiones of cod left a rent price of about 60 k/kg. There's a 60% discount from the rent price of the developers renting out goodbyes. Of course, the General Assembly should stop the volunteer spirit from dividing additional resources from one part of the saying, and it has the opportunity to do so by agreeing with the bill of what is being discussed on the job board. It's not like this is running, and it's a new thing, and it's a little spryy. This is the third Parliament, where this bill is at the pro board. The Senate has discussed the matter three times, three times, three times. And, of course, when the codfish is so strong today, the addition is handled in a way that is different from what is already available. [[The president calls.]] It's not taking any of anybody, just making it possible. We might even decide to tie this to the settlements of the country, etc. This addition can be different from what is already there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u307	A respectable president. We can do this in various ways, but we still need to approach the matter in order to draw out all the factors involved in changing the fishing system itself. It is true that the power of those who carry the fishing warrants is great. But I say there is also a great deal of authority among politicians who decide in what way this is to be ordered. I would also allow me to state that an auction of fishing warrants could disturb people's existence or inhabited if they were not well - thought - out and try to predict the extent to which they appear to individual places, individual ships, seamen's survival, and their families. All I'm pointing out is that changes in this system, which has been very helpful to us since 1984, although many and tremendous painful changes have followed that, intense conflict, are associated with risks. This has unmistakably done a very good job for the nation in the midst of an enormous task that had to be done in the wake of less fish stocks. If we are to unite in making these changes, we must, according to my understanding and my attitude, be sure to do so well. I have not yet seen, although I have tried to follow this business and discuss it for a long time, intelligent ideas about how that fundamental change, i.e. To bid farewells, to touch the borders, and the increase of the people throughout all the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u308	V.E.G. President. We'll continue with the financial programme, now through the fishing and agricultural sectors. I'm not gonna get involved in what was being discussed here last time, then I'd spend all the time in it. But I want to talk about what's in the plan. It is said that the United States has adopted specific requirements for the traceability of raw materials. These protection requirements will be adopted in more markets over time. I have heard a lot of concern about these matters. It has something to do with it. both traceability and resources, especially in Internet fishing. In the winter of MSCunning, grey-free hunting has been taken because there was too much power in it. It was found that the tests were not successful. I find this to be a poem that the matter is not earned well, that dignity is upon it. I'd like to ask the secretary if he'd taken a specific look at this matter. Then, too, it is related to the gray patch: A root injection of a gray patch is not practical to humans, according to the method used in a floatbox. [[The president calls.]] Time's up, I'll get more into it in the second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u309	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I've studied this case slightly in terms of our testimony and the way that this work involves our gray-free fishing. We had a fine meeting at the Ministry with the presidents of the National Association of Smallboaters on this subject. It's clear to me that research, such as cod. One senator says, was not accurate, and may be questioned how solid the basis for making the research we are doing in that regard. I think that's a big deal. A Meritional Research Institute or those who work there are not approaching this issue in a way that they believe they are presenting some sacred science. Everyone is informed about the inaccuracies of the sciences responsible for this. The only realistic scale we can see is that of the product we're dealing with on the gray patch. He's dating for some reason that we don't fully understand. However, it is clear that fishermen can also better understand information from a fishing lab than is done. I think everyone agrees too. So everyone we work for this work, whether on the study or fishing side, has acknowledged that we can do better and should aim to try to do so. The requirement for traceability, sustainable use and resource responsibilities will always increase and increase as time goes on. All of us have the opportunity to do our best and even better, since we are doing so today. We are simply to use that position.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u310	V.E.G. President. I agree with the Minister in that these matters need careful management at all ends. There, too, the sailors need to be included. I think they are. On the other side, there has been a complaint that lacks better equipment to record this in the apocalyptic books and whatever it is done. But I'd like to get into the hunts only. Recalculation of methodology is now being carried out. The formula that ran its course in the fall had been maligned to the point that this is being calculated back in time for about two years. The year 2015 is now being paid for. It's very heavy because 2015 was a very good year, but a lean year last year and met, especially last year. It's very different from the fishing industry. Lucky for you. The cost of fishing varies considerably from one to the next. Small ones feel that they need to carry as much weight as the tall ones, especially the updrafts as they do today. For the next year, I give much emphasis on getting used to this work so that there is a level of fairness in these topics. All the wannabes I know pay for their hunting fees. No one's taking it to the bathroom. But it has to be that way that the companies carry it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u311	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that sailors have spoken of the lack of better resources to register. It's making apps, now I'm gonna have to use that term, to pay for this to be a easier subject. This has become the largest part of the fleet, but we need to take better care of it in the miniboat fleet, to prepare them more slowly and slowly to record the catch. It's in progress. I just agree with what. A senator's regard for the price of fishing, as it were, is in many ways defective in the sense that it is more desirable to me that the system is closer to us in time when the charges are being submitted and tried to better measure the future or survival of those who are engaged in the article and try to impose the charges accordingly. It is a matter of balance, as discussed here on different types of fishing, that their recovery is different, that's exactly what we're talking about. But I remind myself of a report prepared for the High Commissioner for the Sea Department and the Council's Professional Board, which the Deloitte Office worked and was presented this winter. It shows black on white that the result is the same thing almost no matter what type it is. It just depends on the size of the rest, etc. But the results of the operation are just very similar in proportion. I agree with that, eventually with what. A senator's job is to cope with changes in this system. [[The president calls.]] That is definitely my position.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u312	Madam President. I'd like to direct questions here to the highest. Minister. According to the findings of the EFTA Court in November 2017, it is evident that the European Convention does not agree with the general business plans for importing the raw and processed meat products and the rules for milk. Icelandic agricultural products have the advantage that we are largely free of Campylobacter. Avoidance has greatly reduced the risk of these diseases leading to domestic pneumonia by the fact that people can be employed as a result of infection, but Iceland has the lowest frequency of Europe's Kampylobacterial infections, according to information from Karl G. Kristinsson, the head of sepsis at the National Hospital. That's why I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. Minister: Will it be possible to react to this decision by the EFTA Court to change the Icelandic rules in accordance with the EEA? If the import of raw meat is authorized, does a secretary think that there is an increased budget for the Food Agency on the budget of agrienvironment schemes, or can the importer be allowed to carry the costs of increased monitoring? It would also be nice to hear a minister's opinion of the procedure mentioned in the agricultural sector. It's supposed to set up a powerful fund that will strengthen innovation and development projects in food production. Is the idea to further some extent agrienvironment schemes or to alter their arrangements?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u313	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. There were quite many of them, I'll try to get over them fairly fast. This weight began in 2002 when the European Union began to pressure the European Union to introduce new food legislation adopted by the Icelandic government in 1997 but was introduced into law 1999. As a result, in 2005 the government decided to initiate a discussion with the European Union, it was agreed to implement the European Commission's European Regulation (EEC). 89/662 in favour of this material. It went into effect in November 2011. It was introduced in the wrong way by the EFTA Court, so we are in the position we are now in. I believe we have to respond in some way. There is a specific way to respond. If this is what it is, then it means that Icelanders need considerable time to bring in their regular actions in order to receive these changes. It's quite possible. It is possible to do both, as is now being done with increased budgets, in 2018,2019 to the Food Agency. Alternatively, there are possible ways to increase the payoff rate. I haven't looked at it. While there are ways to do this, it is quite possible for me that these matters were not prepared since the European Union began to rock the Icelanders in 2011 until the sentence of the first head was passed in November. I don't think it's an option for me to sit there and take up this new reality now. We need to have discussions with the European Union about the possibility of changes in a so-called Annex I, as well as how we change our regular work if such discussions were to produce no results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u314	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. I'm going to turn my songs into a cross, discussing only the fish fire that has been building up quickly and has created a number of jobs. It is important that it is at best at peace with the environment and other employment practices, with the best environmental expectations. I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister considers enough funding to ensure necessary testing and normal monitoring because of a risk assessment that needs to be alive and stable and to prepare it in the best way that risk assessment should be undertaken regularly by the Marine Research Institute. Is there enough money to make that possible? For a long time, an ocean - research agency has been able to provide material necessities. It has a key role, not only for our common resource in the sea, and now the fish fire, but also for new laws that were approved last year on the further use of the river and sea in the Brefue. Does a Merition Institute have enough money to care for this vital role that is the basis for the nation's currency? The same question can be asked about the Food Institute and its central role in the control of fish fires, the well - being of animals, and other factors. The project has always been to expand in the Food Organization. And then one light at the end of the hunting fees. What do ministers believe the development of fishing costs will be for the next few years? Does he realize that they will rise, turn down, or that there will be some division between different types of fishing?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u315	A respectable president. That easy question at the end is a little heavy, I'll just admit it. I don't see the development of hunting fees in the near future. I hope for years to come that the sea route will be in such a state that it is well-requipped for the use of the resource as it has been in the past few years, that it will be a fair currency. On the other hand, I allow myself to claim that by changing the Icelandic bank's gang, he will be in a better position to pay a higher price than the article thinks he can carry today. With regard to the main questions about the fish fire, we are now in a state of 20 furrows. tons of fire. There are already 580 years of work in this industry. This is already being done and entered the budget of this year's resources for the Marine Research Institute for further research and better working on factors related to risk assessment and the potential mixing of fish and our wild stocks. What is missing in the years to come, I've presented it, and I did explain it when I presented the bill I recommended this week. I plan to contribute to the next fall of bills, which, on the other hand, plan to pay for the distribution of farms and a bill that is about to take up the resource tax for marine farms. The report of the work group contained some ideas that, if I recall correctly, expected 15 K. cost per kilogram and a 67 far away. Ton of fire, this amounts to about one billion a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u316	Mr. President. I was impressed when I saw in this financial program that 2018's fishing costs fall by 3 billion from budgets approved in December. According to the 2018 budget, hunting costs were to be due 10 billion to the nation, but this financial program accounts for 7 billion this year. The report in the plan is that the current fishing legislation expires at the end of the year and plans for better collections follow. I agree that the fishing costs are maligned and are supplied with tens of temporary remuneration, rather than a profit payment that offers a wide variety of accounting effects, as well as the vertical integration of sea transport companies allows large amounts of profits to be exported. I'm asking the highest. Minister: In what way can mismanagement laws of 2019 C.E. reduce the rate of hunting that falls in 2018 by 3 billion? If the new legislation is ready, I'd like to go to the top. A minister will inform us of this new arrangement. I also wanted to know in what democratic way work and preparation for the new legislation have been made. Finally, what has changed during the three and a half months since budget was approved, making the fishing cost a total of 3 billion? 3 billion ain't no quarter. There could be less than one wide bridge on a highway about ten pieces for this money. The nation has a right to a fair profit from its fishing resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u317	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. You're absolutely right. You're going to miss it. A senator, in my opinion, is the current fishing system mispronounced. It correctly brings up various factors that concern the way operators are able to reverse the results of a year's return, e.g. how the profits are found at the end. There are some difficulties in taxing vertical integrated companies. These are all factors that the Hunting Committee, a legal committee with the pressures of hunting costs, has discussed in its work. As a result, I requested to the Parliamentary Commission that it override the pressures of hunting fees, examined the benefits and defects of moving the cover into time, making it simpler, and more transparent. At the same time, the survival of the exodus has been rapidly improved compared to Deloitte's assessment, as I had within my previous reply. The figure in the budget is a plan. There is no bill that leads to this conclusion. It will then enter the council at the time. I announced in the Constitution that this would be part of a bill. The financial programme says that work is being done on a reexamination of the fishing fees. In what way is this being accomplished? I just assume that when it comes to the bills, whether for fishing or for other matters that touch the water, they'll be put in a review process, introduced to the council, and the committee will process it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u318	Mr. President. I felt that I did not have a clear answer to what has changed during those three and a half months. I think all plans, projections, even analysis of the status and survival of the whole article were ahead of December, and it did not change much over the three and a half months that it explained the dramatic decline. That's why I just assumed that the bill was under construction and that even there was an idea how this arrangement will be changed. I agree that there's a big flaw in the fishing fees, as they're now designed, that they're back in time. The best way to collect real time and change this system, such as changing the local pay system of income tax at the time to prevent the same problem, is to rent out the sources and temporarily take the money out of the rented sources, whether they are offered up or not. I ask again for answers to what has changed in this brief period of time. In what democratic way does a minister plan to win the Fishing Committee, which may be a little dark for the public, to prepare new legislation? It is extremely important to know how to obtain the resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u319	A respectable president. I'm assuming that the bill shown on hunting costs will be won in a manner similar to other bills. They are usually employed in the councils, sometimes with bills, etc., and then they take an open and clear narrative process that is then carried out at the council. I simply assume that a comparable procedure would be carried on to a bill that would be presented for correction whether it is a hunting fee, a recalculation, a change in fish control laws, or anything. This is it. This is usually announced in the Constitution when the government brings it forward until the fall, and it is reviewed in January. What has especially changed about the fishing fee and its money is the fact that the result of this business has deteriorated, not from year to year, but from day to day. We also receive more information on the current currency, based on the recovery and income of this sector in 2015 to the largest extent. In my first answer, Delotte's assessment produced specific sizes in that topic. It's gonna be tough all the time. On the other hand, I'm glad we're doing it. A senator argues on the importance of bringing the decision closer in time. I would like to be able to adopt the same arrangement for these activities as for the income tax adopted before the turn of the century. [[The president calls.]] I believe, though, that we have quite a distance to catch.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u320	A respectable president. This is a discussion and has been this afternoon a conquistador to the government on a financial agenda. I'd like to do a little research on the agricultural business. One of the first missions of the government was to deal with the emergency problems of sheep farmers. It was over 665 million. K. a donation in budgets by 2017. The product price has fallen about one third because of outside problems. Despite the benefits of this, many are facing a major challenge to promote and correct one of the oldest and most respected classes of our country. The article faces a great challenge that needs to be addressed rapidly, and it counts that the problem is overall. Farmers themselves have developed ideas that can be of great importance, and it is our government that appreciate them and make them realize their idea to set up a market balance fund based on money that came from the article itself. Such funds would meet market failures and equal fluctuations that are very sensitive in sheep culture, where the production process is long. I'd love to hear how to do that. A minister likes these ideas. Government Visions include to become a food policy. It's supposed to be a celebration. The policy will be new to introduce the government's emphasis on employment and development, the structure of employment and the interests of consumers. Here we look to the future, how we want to see this important food production paid off. Sheep production in this country is going to score a lot compared to imported products, whether we are talking about purity or quality, and especially if we look to the level of carbon that we already have as a nation to sustain us. For Iceland to be responsible for the production of wholesome products, protection and sustainable development of farms need to be ensured.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u321	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. To answer right away about the market balance fund, I declared it to the main meeting of the Sheep's Sheep Association that I thought I would like to view an idea like this without taking a direct view of its contents. I rejoiced that farmers would produce this idea, and I also declared that such ideas would have to be adopted and discussed in the requisition groups on market contracts. I have directed them to the leadership of the committee to focus first in their work on the well - being of the flocks of the land, for they are mad. There are assignments to be carried out and how to deal with them. One who can help in the position that sheep'flocks are dealing with is this idea that led to the national association of sheep farmers with which the market balance was made. That's the best part. Similarly, I welcome that emphasis as strong as possible. A senator agrees on food policy. There's a national campaign to do it. On such a basis, we may be able to arrange the way the government operates better for the work that they have to do with their farmers. I also remind you of a project that the government has already agreed on, as well as the government's focus on the government's government trade policies, and it has to face up to our standards of shopping and stress on the eco-friendly purchases of the state. In view of the competition for which there is less carbon or somatic activity, domestic production should have a very good position to achieve good competition with products in other areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u322	A respectable president. I don't know if I should join with a agricultural minister when he says that the problem of sheep farmers is gone. It depends on how you look at it. Now I'd like to shed light on the fishery and how important the sector is to the development of the land protected. This industry needs to grow and thrive together with what needs to be built, natural with extreme caution, in line with the advice of scientists, with respect for nature and the wild salmon stock of this country. It is important to develop a process of cooking that fits in here. In fish farming policies, resource expenditures are expected to be due to the published management area of the marine farm. While fish farming is taking place, we can see a expectation science step in places where it has been in complete lie. This affects everything in life on both sea and land, as it were. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether or not he will provide a national impact in incomes of the fire and how it will come to return to the seminary, by means of research and structure. Budgeting is an emphasis on supporting valuables and promoting healthy marine conditions. It begins best by allowing diversity to prevail. Therefore, it is important to support small and medium-sized structures. Recent participation in this article is important and supports policy-making in vulnerable areas of the country. In this regard, there is a beach fishing, and I'm also going to mention that we have to be careful about the fishing costs. They are a major factor for which reconciliation must be made, and they must not be too much for smaller productions, as they are relevant to whole settlements with all their yields and futures.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u323	A respectable president. If the senator had been misheard about the problem of sheep farmers, that he was mad, I reiterate it here. Similarly, when it discusses the fish fire, I am convinced that it will grow in the heart of fish, as the Treaty says. Both appeal to the sector under the discussion separately. It is true that there are plans to develop different methods of cooking. One thing I hope for is that science, technology, and research will bring us more into the process of growing unfertilized salmon, i.e. - The lizard. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Similarly, we should emphasize the importance of moving to the full extent of our ability in closed fire districts or fire systems. As soon as I say this, I'm fully aware that these innovations are short and are not at the point where we can build hopes that the fish fire will grow at the rate expected, especially in the west and east. There's a question about how I feel about the national impact of this. It's enormous. Already, in a 20,000 - ton fire, it has been estimated that the 580 - year - old works are known. If we look at 70,000 tons of fire that is thought to be possible by the National Institute of Geological Research, we will say ourselves that this will be an enormous impact on areas that have so far been very ill and need considerable support if the foundation is not to suffer further. We are to agree, of course, with these settlements, but we never have a less plan, no more than the national accord, to compromise the objectives of wild salmon strains. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u324	Mr. President. V.E.G. One prime minister put it, in discussions about financial plans last year, that the financial plan of each government was fundamental. It involves a course and a vision. All right. With those words in mind, I have been reading the financial program of this government. And I have to say, when it comes to the seabed, the lack of direction is, in effect, crying out to make peace that is so important to the water. You see, I agree with the highest. High priests, we're on the ground with a very powerful marine outlet system that we're proud of. We've increased the value of much more than we've done in our time, and we're on the ground, and we're grounded, and we're sorry for the sleigh, the highest. President, with a good system. But we need to make that peace. There is no evidence to suggest that in the past year, the program will continue with the experiment in which all classes of the Council were invited to the table in an effort to achieve such peace. I predict that even though it works well, although we have a powerful system of pride, especially in a foreign source, it will eventually explode in our faces if it becomes so complex, and the forward party, and now with greens that provide shelter in all of this, remain for this position of protection in the seas; men always say it is so complicated, it is so difficult to collect this fair price. It will not be content to change the fishing fee, which has the sole aim of lowering the price of hunting. We need to make peace. We need to get the methodology ahead. That's why I'm asking, "Where is the government's experiment, where's the government's clue and the Supreme Court?" A sea emissary in which to gain real peace of mind about this important industry, this fundamental part of the nation's work?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u325	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. When we address the question she raised here, which is what effort we are going to make in order to make peace with this nation's basic way of living, I allow myself to claim that many things have changed in this country, both political parties, corporations, stakeholders, fishing or fishing practices. I allow myself to claim that a cure is very, very comfortable with the control systems of fishing, i.e. in what way we control the resource use. The controversy that existed some years ago, when this system was established, is no longer heard. I think there's just one superstitious voice that talks today about these basics that have been very useful for the nation to build up its institutions and make a lucrative business that no longer enjoys subsidies or government companies, 95% content that the management system is very good. It may well be that there is some lack of ambition to cope with these changes basically, I don't agree with them. I think the system was very good for us. I feel that the only thing that survives is the payoff. We are still dealing with the amount of money what is a reasonable currency of this industry. There's always a difference of opinion. I would like to thank the former minister for the work in which he was assigned, which points to the report I have quoted here until an assessment of the payment of the fishing road and its supply, Deloitte's report. [[The president calls.]] It was presented not long ago, and it presents certain facts that humans must face. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u326	Mr. President. There's a bit of a way out of the way to argue that we're going to destroy the system. I'm stressing that the system, as it's built on the use and value of the world, is well built up and that we achieve a great deal of value. It's just this big part that's left, i.e. Fair currency, cost of access to the resource. It is a limited resource that we have given a certain group of exclusive rights to hunt. Although we have this good system, a self-sustaining operating system, based on scientific advice, it will explode in our faces if political groups fail to show ambition, anywhere in the spectrum, in order to reach a reasonable conclusion about fees on the private rights of the resource. Therefore, we politicians must not give up trying to find ways that will help us achieve that reasonable exchange. Of course, that is relative, but there is evidence. All members of the Committee last year were prepared to discuss new contracts. All classes except one category, that was the Independence Party that had not yet lent a legal case to the resolution agreements. Modern agreements - it is important to maintain it - acknowledge that the fishing grounds around the country are the national share of the land as defined in Article 1. Fishy control law. It is important that we take this matter further out of the seaside, beyond the importance of the fishing road in the community, and from the fact that the nation understands it and understands that a certain righteousness is being fulfilled. That is why we have suggested in Reunion that instead of making a decision to be paid by officials, we take at least a portion of the salathan and post it on the market. [[The president calls.]] It is better that the market affords the price than that there will be a Contortists, with all due respect to it, in the High Commissioner of the Sea, who determined the fair price. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u327	A respectable president. With all due respect for the council officials, they are as different as they are many, but they do not make decisions for politicians. It's not like that. Congress makes laws and decisions in these matters. There is no authority in the councils of government officials there to make such decisions. [[Up front.]] That's a long way from doing it. It has not been agreed, as I mentioned here in my conversation with the members of the United States, who have their policy to provide hunting clearances, to offer them. I expressed my opinion on that subject very thoroughly, as it is possible in a short answer, and do not agree with that idea, including For the reason that I think there will still be an extra problem about the system. When we discuss the price, as this is done, under the pretext that it should be just and fair, then it is true. The speaker points out that the terms used in this discussion are relative; it depends largely on the understanding of the terms fair and just. This may vary. We must respect one another's views in that regard; what each person might seem reasonable is in the eyes of others gross unfairness. Then, trying to find a compromise between different viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u328	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. A marine dignitary and agricultural minister for his tour which must be said at the moment is causing some disappointment. There is no increase in the number of paintings at the highest level. A minister unless there is less in the five years of financial management, so he does not ride a fat horse from a meeting at the highest. Secretary of finance and the Chairman of Independence Class. Farming has to endure some 700 million dollars. K. in the coming years and in the fishing route, there's a quarter of a million dollars. Several goals are to be taken into the text, but more is involved in the above - listed goals, although the measures are certainly few. The number of parishes in Icelandic food production is especially due to the growing number of tourists in recent years. It is positive that wholesome food production should be viewed and that valuable material should be increased within this article, as well as that it is positive that greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced because of its activities. But there is no other way to stop and ask, " How is it to finance these efforts that are there to achieve those goals? ' How does a minister support setting priorities when it is clear that they will not all be financed with such reduced donations to him? Also, ambitious goals are set out to increase innovation in the food chain, including food production. setting up a powerful fund. But again you ask, " Who will be at this cost? ' Or rather, since a major cut is expected: From whom should this money be taken?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u329	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry and expressed a special admiration for her to thank her for a fine speech that has disappointed her. But we'll figure it out. When she talks about cutting farms I've heard other senators discuss, they simply ignore the type of contract. Agricultural contributions are based on a contract made between governments and farms until 2026. If members of Congress study that agreement, they will simply see how the cost of development is handled there. It assumes that, at first, contributions are raised between the year and the year before the contract went into effect, i.e. 2016 and 2017, about a billion. Then, not in this government's time, the agreement was made about the change in financial contributions as the years go on into this ten - year period. Financial contributions are simply bound to that agreement. True, it is, as the international community knows in revision, and there are two years during the contract period of 2019 and 1923, where governments and farmers are expected to record the agreement. I'd like to make this a special subject because I've had a very misunderstanding in the financial discussion that there is some special goal for the current government to cut money to the farm people in the country. It's not. This is simply based on the agreement made concerning the party.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u330	Mr. President. I don't want to rule the highest. Ministers disappointed, but I was not praising him for a good talk. Rather, I simply thank him for having gone over with us. These are his lawsuits. I was so polite to thank him for introducing this, but at the same time, the content of his presentation disappointed me. I also find it interesting that despite the tip of the last year's financial debate on the state of the Food Agency and its obvious role in working out the goals and actions of this group, she is hardly mentioned by name. Likewise, when you look at contributions to the group as a whole, it is not to conclude that there is a need for financial support and the need for increased resources so that the Agency can carry out the vital tasks it has to do with it. So I ask the highest. Minister to the affairs of all of these institutions, Food Agency, Marine Research Agency, Fish Service, Maize, and all of these institutions: Will there be increased funds for them? [[The president calls.]] There is no evidence in this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u331	A respectable president. In short, and in short time, it is not empty to pass through all these institutions, that is a long distance away, but I allow myself to claim that in some of them more money is expected to be taken up for projects. True, a part of it enters 2018, is an increase between 2017 and 2018, which is maintained and not impaired. I suppose that's what it is. A senator reads a financial program in such a way that in it the decline or economy is expected for all institutions, not just for 12 and 13, but for the entire administration, either 1% this year, which will increase to 2% for the next two years, then it will end in 1%. It's the economy crisis that's inside. I specifically mention the fact that there is an increased budget for certain projects. I mentioned it in the answers earlier and saw what it was. A senator was under that discussion. I especially thank her for that. [[The president calls.]] It expects funding to be affected by the so - called raw diet. If, in this case, the Food Agency is not sufficient, then you simply have to set priorities for the work that is under that institution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u332	Mr. President. The section on agriculture is noteworthy in this financial program. First of all, the government is clearly not concerned about the EU toll agreement, which takes effect on May 1. To meet the great impact of the customs contract will bring on domestic agricultural production, there are no counterrequisite measures in the financial programme. Let us not forget that some 11,000 people have agricultural jobs in one way or another, and all countries protect their agriculture. It's not a custom phenomenon. A number of agricultural jobs may be in danger from the contract. The contract will lead to an increase in the import of agricultural products in competition with Icelandic agriculture. This applies especially in meats and cheeses. In turn, what action will the government take to meet the increased competition for import from the European Union? The problem is to be solved with innovation, product development, and the use of technology. The more opportunities for agriculture are then discussed with this contract, as the financial agenda says. Farmers have not seen these opportunities. I'm saying it here, not from my conversations with farmers. A panel has concluded the need to cancel this contract and negotiate again, including the following: because of a broken end. Now that the British are passing out of the EU, our largest and best market area will be removed from the contract. The middle party will move in this council an arrangement to recommence this contract. A competition is good, but it must be on an equal foundation. It's a two-way deal. You need to renegotiate. I'd like to ask the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers in this regard, and in the light of what has been reported here, and I've reported in my speech: What are these opportunities mentioned in this contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u333	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's question. It is quite remarkable, in fact, to listen to a member of the Central Party speak in the manner that is being done here. He should look at his party, even being a deputy of the parish Party himself, and considering how much of the Party voted with this same tax agreement or came to his contract. Then the matter might be discussed differently. I insist that when the contract was made, all those coming to him saw and spoke to him about the opportunities it contained. I'm going to mention it here, because of what you're doing. One senator says that farmers don't see the opportunity to appear there, that there are thousands of tons of beef being brought in each year. Farmers have already begun to plan the ways in which they are going to face it. I'm just going to remind you of the good work that's now being done on the Great Battle of the World. Senator. I had the opportunity to talk to these farmers the other day. They see an opportunity in this subject, in taking a position with the manufacture of Icelandic farmers to counteract the import that is available there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u334	Mr. President. This deal is different. I've been over it here, and I've talked about it with the highest. Agricultural minister before. There is nothing wrong with breaking up this contract because the basis is smiling, our largest and best markets are leaving the contract by leaving the EU, i.e. Britain's market. Just for example, I don't even know if it's the highest. A agricultural minister knows, is a good coven in this contract, I'm not going to slow it down, but he was thought of in the United Kingdom market. So there is complete uncertainty about whether he will come to use. In view of this, just this particular point, there's nothing wrong with taking up this deal again. This is normal in negotiations and international contracts. I think agri-gri-environmental development should be carefully examined for the lack of cooperation of agriculture by divulging and remaking. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u335	A respectable president. When it comes to the fact that it's no big deal to cancel this contract and renegotiate because the grounds are smiling, I think I'm right about winning this deal in five to six years. It was the European Union. I'm asking why. A senator or a judge would ask him to consider it, because he has no opportunity to come up here again: to whom will he later negotiate the same? I mention it here as a celebration, and they saw an opportunity for farmers and consumers, at the time when this deal was made, his responsibilities, and I think that there is every reason to face them making this deal, we are not going to resign just like that. The relationship between sovereigns is very different. Senators realize completely, but the contract that takes years to settle on a monthly notice and expect that the same people who are going to start eating and discussing a new agreement will already be expected. [[The president calls.]] That may well be the problem. A senator has some particular knowledge of these matters, but I think it is most unlikely.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u336	Mr. President. The aims of the fishing industry according to financial strategy are mainly about sustainable, intensive research and improved surveillance. One of our finest and most important research agencies in Iceland is a Meritional Research Institute. She owns and runs two research ships, one of which is 18 and the other 48 years old. We're in desperate need of a new ship. This is not a budget for a new research vessel nor is it expected that there would be increased difficulty in renting fishing vessels for research. In addition, there is no funding for further research or general increase in activities needed, both for fish farming, and for the next five years, and in the light of the minister's goals. A fishing room then conducts a variety of governments connected with the fishing road. There, monitoring becomes the most visible part of the world. It was revealed in the TV program Upright last January that the authority and financial resources of Fishing Houses, or lack, have prevented her from performing her role properly. This five - year period reduces about 330 million dollars. based on schedule. I can't see that these noble goals, about sustainability and increased marine research, are practical by means of this cut-off. Made the most of it. For example, in order to gain an even greater amount of self - resources than the Agency already does? Both of these institutions need more money. Setting beautiful goals on paper does not work, but let no money come along. I refer to a phrase that many of my favorite rights often use, with president's permission: 'Therae ain't much thing as a free vech. In New York, it could be rendered: There is no free lunch.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u337	The President recommends the Icelandic language.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u338	A respectable president. It is absolutely true that for a year's sake, financial plans do not allow budget to buy or rent a new specialized research vessel instead of the Bjarna Sólmundsson. A ship is gone in many ways. That discussion has lasted a long time. I stress that I have not changed my opinion, and put into the text of a financial program, that it is essential that this should be done. I have appointed the Ministry to prepare plans on the one hand, the cost, the possibility of building and renting a special research vessel on the outside. I think it is urgent, and I've called for the assumed that, in time, we will be able to renew at least Bjarni, either way. When we discuss funding for the Fish Office or the Marine Research Agency, I remind myself of what I had been able to do in the past at this meeting, that there has been an increase in funding for the Agency, funds for research. This year's budget was taken care of, and it is assumed that these funds will stay. Similarly, I want to mention what I could about fish farming, and express my opinion. A senator, in which the building of the building will require an increase of funds. I mentioned it earlier, and I've done so before when I proposed a fish farm bill, that I assume that the costs there are going to be for further research, and so on, in the receipt of this article. On one hand, by currency for farms and on the other, in a so - called resource tax. I do not expect the self - resources of these institutions to grow indefinitely, but in some ways, the business of Fishing Office is largely dependent on its own resources, resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u339	Mr. President. This was made clear in the previous discussion, in response to the highest. The minister of my inquirers, that the hireling is shrinking. In 2018, for example, about three billion less fishing costs are expected. So I'm not quite sure how much this deposit will be from a fish farm or another business. Too much energy and time for these institutions are being sold out to run themselves so that they cannot play their primary role in research and surveillance. In the meantime, we cannot expand our research or surveillance. I might want to get a clearer answer about all these plans; plans to buy a new research vessel, a plan for reimbursement, plans to expand this operation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u340	A respectable president. A decrease in currency in one location may be seen in another. I told you earlier about the fish fire that I expected to do so, and it actually shows up in the bill I made, and I did explain this week about changing the fish farm law, providing in the fall of early prime bills for farms and resource costs for fish farms. It is quite different from the fishing rate on the seaside today, as well as another currency, and it appears elsewhere. In fact, some of the resource costs are expected to be used for building timbers in areas where marine farming takes place. I don't share an opinion of what? A senator who has more and more energy and time for these institutions, especially Fish Service and Marro, to sell out his services. [[The president calls.]] I simply don't agree with that opinion. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u341	Mr. President. A few questions in this so - called second round. I reiterate what I was trying to ask the highest. Minister on the previous: How does he see the rest of his attempting to achieve a parapolitic agreement for a reasonable amount of the resource? How will he do so? A committee appointed last year by all classes is no longer at work. How will a minister of his own use of tribunal agreement to cover the marine resource? Or should nothing be done, just wait for the hunting committee to turn up and go on it and nothing else? That, on its own, will be no longer at peace. Another question is related to the food policy that I would like to commend a minister for continuing. I think it's important to continue the work that had begun, to shape food policy, but I must ask if a minister shares with me the idea of uniting the AVS, the fund for increase the value of sea address, the Aggression Fund, i.e. To make one powerful source of food that comes from our main food source. That way we might try to save even. in the administration of up to 30 million, money that would have research or support within such a powerful food fund. Does he share the idea that a common agricultural and fishing industry could be seen in one long - term intensive supply of food? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister at the short time the following is the third question. I miss having nothing to do with a new ocean study ship. Bjarni Sæmundsson will be 50 years old. 2020. There's a report that says it's up to nothing. There was a change in him and some maintenance that would only be enough to last 2013-2015. [[The president calls.]] There is clear evidence that a new ocean study ship is needed. I would have liked to see long - term financial funding in such a way that we need to be more supportive of ocean research in Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u342	A respectable president. I answered why. A senator with the ocean research ship earlier. They're starting to repeat themselves a little bit. I share my opinion with him. A senator and, in fact, I share the opinion of a former sea chief in these matters. The text in the budget suggests that this will be examined now, perhaps with a new production that will take about The estimated cost at three years is 3.5 billion. I'd also like to look at a chance to rent a ship instead of a Bjarni Sæmundsson because he's, like, a whatnot. A senator could about, completely out of his mind. I don't see reason to add to the words I had for my secular career in the fishing business. It is a discussion that we need more time to take. When you ask me about the AVS and the product funds, I'll point out why. A senator is supposed to be planning on making such a fund, making our thoughts and ideas together in the financial program, within the text. Similarly, I say about foodism that it has begun. That's what's going on. I expect to be able to introduce that policy next year, show it up then. She's in preparation now, and hopefully she'll hear about it as early as year goes by.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u343	Mr. President. In particular, I will support the Minister's continuing to push more intensive food policy in Iceland as I would also like to keep him in touch with the content of one powerful source of food, i.e. It's a boiler together. I am convinced that we can get a lot of energy out of such unity. The second is that I must declare a great deal of frustration with the lack of policy in the reply of a minister when we come to try to make peace and cross political work when it comes to the decision of a fishing resource. I understand, however, the highest. Minister very well. It's a big deal that it's hard to discuss in one or two minutes and actually shows the problem with the arrangement here. As soon as I say: Okay, we don't talk about this now, we simply need to take a special discussion on this subject and possibly in view of the importance of requiring a double discussion about it. This assembly can't let it go down this spring without having a vision of how we're going to set down a fair amount of resources in the fishing field. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u344	A respectable president. In itself, I have little to say to myself. I reiterate what I said about those factors. A senator came on, the points directly related to the budget, the funds, the food policy that is right inside are all of the work that I believe is a considerable harmony with and understanding of the urgent need to advance these activities and that these activities have been watched for quite a while. In the same way, ocean research has become a major issue that has been developed by a Meritional Research Institute. Still, they have forgotten in their discussion. Congress to the largest stage in this work is to unite this institution under one roof. It is assumed that a new building will be started in 2019 but such that no one has mentioned it in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u345	A respectable president. In short, I'm explaining the financial program in the 20191⁄223 on the topic matter that will be my minister as foreign ministers. The main projects involved in this topic area are foreign trade, security and defence, development cooperation, humanitarian work, civil service and national rights. The role of the foreign service is to give careful attention to international interests in politics, commerce, and culture and to provide effective civil service. Iceland's Foreign Service is one of the least in Europe. This requires priorities and practical management. A modified world picture requires constant adjustment in the work of the foreign service, adjustments in priorities, clearer policy development and flexibility of work. The report National Service for the Future ▪ Economic Guard in a changing world suggests 150 suggestions that set the forward view of foreign service. The suggestions take even. the location of an e-mail office, the use of human resources, has also been considered for management management, as well as for improving services. Work on the project began last fall, and 68 suggestions have already been implemented, and the introduction of others is being carried out. During the period in question, additional contributions to foreign affairs are expected compared to budgets for the current year. The increase is primarily due to three factors: 1st Government policy when it comes to developing cooperation. 2. commitments that result from cooperation in defense issues. 3. Emphasis on the implementation of the EEA Convention. As a result, the increased cost of developing cooperation is one of the greatest. It is expected that contributions to other important projects will either take place or take place during the period. As mentioned earlier, the majority of the expansion is attributed to increased contributions to public development, but additional contributions to it are in accordance with the government's administration covenant. The plan assumes that the role of forwarding to development is between 0.26 and 0.35% of the gross national income until 2022. Foreign trade is a vital task of foreign service. An estimated one quarter of foreign donations are spent on foreign business. The main objective of this project is to protect the economic and commercial interests of Iceland abroad. In this area, one of the most important projects in the United States today is to ensure Iceland's interest in the implementation of Britain from the EU. The aim is primarily to ensure that Icelandic citizens have easy access to British markets and also to the position of Icelandic citizens in Britain. In accordance with the Treaty of the Government, additional donations in a financial programme are expected to promote the protection of Iceland in the implementation of the EEA Convention by strengthening the workforce and increasing the strength of the embassy in Brussels. In terms of increased safety and protection expenditures, the North Atlantic Protocols for the Atlantic Union have been revised after the environment of the environment was changed in March 2014 when Russia took part of the Ukraine. Therefore, it is important to ensure that the facilities and equipment are in place in Iceland for our cooperation with the United States on Defense. Most of the increased budget for security and defense will be reimbursed radar control in Iceland. Other smaller changes planned for the budget are linked to civil service, contributions to international institutions, and normal foreign services. Iceland will take over the next year as head of the Arctic Council of Finns and play it for two years. Pretiness will be one of the biggest international projects Iceland has ever taken and will require a great deal of careful preparation. Then Iceland will be the head of the Council of Norway and the Baltic States, with the World Bank in the same years, leading the Council of the Norwegian Minister, and working as the head of the Council of England in cooperation with the Norwegian Foreign Minister and the Baltic States in 2019 C.E. In the financial program, a temporary increase in foreign funds will be expected in the coming years because of these initiatives that I have taken over and other projects that do not have time to list. Some 12% of the government funds are spent on contracts to international institutions. In this regard, contributions to the EEA's building fund grow somewhat over the period. The EEA's building fund is essentially fluctuated, and in the long run there is no anticipated real-time expansion. Otherwise, a significant change in donations to international institutions is not expected to change with national income. In recent years, the importance of foreign civil services has increased with increasing numbers of Icelanders. More than 40,000 Icelandic citizens live abroad, and Iceland's population travels more than 500,000 trips to foreign lands each year. The main goal of civil service is to protect the interests of the Icelandic citizens while they are abroad. There are many projects, ranging from providing emergency letters to organise massive operations due to a foreign emergency. It is important to ensure good access to visas for those interested in visiting the country. Also, there are barriers. Iceland has had extensive cooperation with a neighboring nation on this service, Dani, and has enjoyed its favor with its implementation. In recent years, however, the scope of the ministry has increased dramatically and is seen to be even greater in the growth of future gaps. It is therefore expected that Iceland will need to expand this aspect of the foreign service. The financial agenda is not expected to increase the cost of this service. The staff is working on the mapping of the dimension and the implementation of the progress programme on the increase of transcripts and visas in Iceland, which will be completed tomorrow, i.e. Friday. The importance of foreign affairs will increase even more in the years to come. Now, there is an opportunity for all of us, the public, the job, and other interested ones to work together so that in the years to come our objective in foreign affairs will be met. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u346	Mr. President. International Development Teamwork is a major component of Icelandic foreign policy. Iceland should be richly contributed to the international task of increasing equality, reducing hunger, poverty, childhood mortality, and social injustice. It is a moral obligation for a rich nation to help the poor to self - help. On the United Nations scene, the nations have agreed that 0.7% of the population income is going into development. Iceland has long been a submer of countries that we most compare with when it comes to donations for development. According to the last State Department development programme, contributions were to be progressively increased from 0.26% up to 0.42% in 2016. The goal would be 0.7% in 2019. Since then, three governments have come and gone, who have ignored this program. The fourth, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is sitting, and once again a plan is not followed and only assumed that donations will rise to 0.35% in 2023. It is only half the goal of the United Nations. We are the longest of all the northern countries involved in donations for development projects. I must admit I'm surprised. I expected my dear friends in the left green would be more ambitious, more united, with the worst in the world. We are a rich people, Mr. President. We are to be among the most part of the countries that make up the most of them for development. We are to be examples. We can. The nation's heart is beating that way. I challenge the highest. Secretary of state, to make more discreet and to do well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u347	A respectable president. It's not good that the person here is running the Icelandic government's budget, not even the financial bill or the financial programme. Yet, I wanted to draw attention to him. A senator to find out where the increase is when it comes to foreign affairs. It's primarily part of the development team. We're on this schedule to talk about an increase between years of age during the first year's schedule for the last of less than 3 of you. Millions a year. That's not a small increase. This is fast approaching the OECD states. Of course, any group of cases can be done better, but I now feel that people should be reasonable when they see the tremendous growth involved here. Our developing cooperation has been taken out of the DiaC, the organization that watches these matters, and it has been well graded. It is vital that we continue in that course. There were comments where we were trying to attend. How important it is that we take good care of these and especially those increases! But just to be expressed in proportion, this increase is 55% in this category. I am convinced that there are other groups of cases that increase equally, both proportional and even in the amount. It would be the best health care that has gone up in recent years, but this has happened, if I remember correctly, from about 3 you. Millions of years ago in this amount we are seeing right now. That, of course, is an enormous increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u348	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to hear that this is the subject of reform. We have attended agreements and goals that we have tried to follow along but have not gone better. We live in good times. One minister after another came up during the discussion both today and yesterday and praised and praised a fine journey to land and sea. I think even some record was mentioned, world record, or European record, but these values are not measured in terms of development support, in extending to the hungry and afflicted a temporary living that can make a difference. That's where we're supposed to do a good job and a better job than we do. We may give a world record of kindness to our national interests. I'm asking the highest. Minister of State whether he feels that these goals are sufficient according to the circumstances in which we live, this small, wealthy, and powerful nation. The members of the Icelandic relief organization call for help, and we continue to increase our donations. We're seeing things. It is noted that in the coming decades, there are up to 180 million new refugees, so to speak, who are known as environmental refugees. Refugees who flee their homes because of climate change, and we'll probably see more exaggerated forms in time. This is where we're responsible, Western consumers, and I'm going to let myself ask the minister if we've somehow taken this into our big equation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u349	A respectable president. Hv. A senator calls for honor. I don't know any better than we're setting up a record, both proportional and definitely in the amount, when it comes to developing cooperation in Iceland. Given the numbers I'm back in time, I don't think we're going to do that at all. During the 2017 project, we have 0.29%, based on a mean OECD of 0.31%. However, in 2022 it is expected to be 0.35% of the gross income, which is well over the average OECD. Hv. A senator calls for financial contributions for various expenses, I have listened to him during the council, but I call attention to the fact that only in this program will this date go in 2018 from 5.5 billion to 8.3 billion. It's not a small amount of money, and it's an enormous increase. I say in this as well as most of the other things, you can always do better than our work now is to make sure that this great increase will be spent as well as possible. When it comes to developing nations, and we need nothing more than to look to our own kingdom; we were one of the poorest people in the Western Hemisphere some 100 years ago, we can be absolutely concerned about what it was that made us in our present position. One is, for example, access to core-based free markets. One of the things we stress in our development cooperation is to help developing nations and to help them have access to our very important markets. There are other factors. You can always do better in everything, but I don't think it's fair when we're talking about these amounts, both the amount and the amount that we're going to make them look down. [[The president calls.]] I don't feel that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u350	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for this fine speech, which was in a very rapid turn. But I think we got most of what the Minister said. In many respects, the chapter on foreign affairs in this financial program is quite nice. There's quite a bit of money raised, but it seems to me that because of Iceland's commitments, there are mainly increases. It seems to me that there's not much increase in the Ministry's public service, and I'm a little surprised. I would have liked to see an increase there because there is more demand for the ministry than often before, as the financial agenda shows. I'd like to ask you a few questions to the highest level. Minister. The first question I'd like to put forward is: Here is an offer to UNESCO. How much is such an offer? Has it been charted? How much would it cost to volunteer for the administrative seat in UNESCO? This may cost nothing, but it may also cost certain amounts of money. It is not stated in this program who they are. Increased emphasis is placed on a defence case that I celebrate. I'm very pleased that the Minister will give extra emphasis on defense during his Prime Minister's lesson. Looks like it's up to me that the Department of Defense is in there. I wondered if the increase in cost is from that change. It doesn't have to be, but I want to curious about it. Businesses and the world's major changes in this program are spoken of. I do not see, however, that any money or money is specifically marked to strengthen the business. The word "Bfenit," as expected. It speaks of having access to the British markets as we do today. That's where I'd like to see a little more ambition. Making a deal with the European Union is such a firm clot. We're supposed to be able to make more progress when we're negotiating with the British. I know the Minister is very interested in making a good deal there. Then, only with regard to development cooperation: It speaks of a great increase from 2016 to the end of 2022 C.E. I wondered if that increase is in the same area, i.e. Refugees and refugees, or whether they have two - sided development cooperation. It's fine if you can get this out, because it matters something how and where the increase is, that it's not just automatic, but that we're putting extra emphasis on the subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u351	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for good inquiries. First about the offer to UNESCO: I'll just admit I can't remember the exact number. I recall assuming that the cost is 55 million, but that is absolutely irresponsible. Then there is more cost if we reach and care for the cost. Regarding the defenses, the department planning changes, whether they call for additional costs: they don't. It's all about our rebuilding the Department of Defense. It is just part of the organizational changes needed to follow a report on future foreign services. With regard to the business element: We are quite right in setting priorities, but we have in these programmes, i.e. in a report on future foreign services, assuming zero interest. It's all about the transfers within the Ministry, like what it's about. A senator knows, certain emissaries were closed, local staff increased at the cost of transport duties, etc. I couldn't quite figure out what to do with it. A senator was asking about Baltrexit. But with regard to the development teamwork, it is only a matter of time. A senator says this is an enormous increase. That's one of the things we're putting up with right now, and we're bringing in new emphasis on developing cooperation, exactly how to protect it. It has been a priority, and it will be ongoing when it comes to the shelterers and emergency aid, but it is, of course, a significant increase, thousands of millions, three thousand in the period. That's one of the things we're putting up with, and we'll both introduce to a teamwork committee and, of course, a report. The Foreign Affairs Committee and the Council in due course.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u352	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. In many respects, the report quoted by the minister is very good. It was time that the minister went to work to review the foreign service and look to the future with it. It is true, however, that this report is primarily viewed as practical and practical for the ministry. But I think we're in that place today that we can't achieve only the results that we're going to achieve in that way. That is why I mentioned earlier that I wanted to see a slight increase in the ministry. Let it wait for a better time. Regarding development cooperation, I wondered if these goals, about 0.35 percent, will be achieved by these measurements we use today, i.e. Through traders and refugees, or whether we are adding funds to two - side development cooperations. This increase is considerable. I'd like to come in on the EEA deal too. It is stated in this program that he is the most important business contract in Iceland, that it can be reasoned. However, it is changing, i.e. The British are leaving the European Union, as everyone knows. I'm going to flip it up and ask a minister if he doesn't agree with many of us that there's a good reason to go through the EEA deal, check the pros and cons, and evaluate the situation today. This is shown on page 22. 170, which is, of course, true, that Iceland is financing specific projects in the European Union on behalf of the EEA Convention through a developing fund. It has sometimes been said that Iceland is strengthening the European Union, Iceland is helping the European Union through development support. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how he feels about those we have up to the European Union. Then there's one question at the end, this is far too small a time in such a big and good case: There is expected to be an increase in the number of guests in the defense area from 200 to 400 in the period. I'm wondering, what for? Are we going to some hotel there?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u353	A respectable president. With the last question, I can assure you. The senator here is not becoming a hotel manager. It's turning toward the airspace guard and submarine control, mainly the air space guard; we have to accept the stakeholders who take care of it. Unfortunately, there has been a greater need for this monitoring than before. Of course, when it is time to stay, we appreciate our duties as a guest. That's why we're here. With regard to the EEA Development Fund, we know that story. We walked in the EEA and it was supposed to be, if I remember correctly, for five years. We were there to strengthen the poorest EU countries then, if I recall correctly, Spain, Portugal, Italy, and Greece. Since the growth of the EU to the east, we took the Eastern European countries and, in fact, have taken some countries through the past. This is the strength to the poorest EU countries, nothing different. But it has also been a new Icelandic source, and much good has come out of it. This, of course, is a strength to the European Union, which says itself. Regarding the EEA Convention: It is wise to cross these milestones - we have distributed it to members of the Parliament, and we will review it to the State Department on the EEA Convention, the plans we have for the increased interest protection in that area. Of course, we should always review the pros and cons of this arrangement. However, there is nothing more to this contract than the EEA. He has been very good to us. I don't think there's any doubt about that. However, we should make good use of the benefits we have not done in our interests. There's something I think we can do better, and we have plans for that. But after the British leave, 45% of our business deals with countries in this area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This contract has been very important to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u354	A respectable president. There are certainly many good and exemplary financial plans for foreign affairs in order to create an increased impact on the resources and environment of foreign affairs and international policies on climate change and Iceland. Yet, when we're talking about a tremendous increase in money on certain foreign - language categories, I'd like to keep the increase here from the financial program of the previous government, which is less than 400 million total over a five - year period. I cut down such factors as a significant direct increase in money and a large proportion increase in Iceland's contribution within NATO to ensure that Iceland's defense needs a special discussion at the council, Mr. President. Besides, I can't resist the temptation to talk about the decision not to support Iceland's emissary to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, which means that we are the only 47 people in the Council of Europe that does not have an office there, in contrast to what was before a collapse and was decided to re-create 2016. It's certainly disappointing, for Iceland's head of the Council of Europe in 2021. It doesn't have to be reiterated for the highest. Ministers how important the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe are in the field of human rights, law and democracy. The institutions of the European Parliament, including the Ministers of Ministers, the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights, are the most important human rights institutions in Europe, and our very presence in Strasbourg is that matter. I'm going to make good use of my time, and I'm going to hope that I'm the best. A minister can inform me of two separate issues. On page 18. The 162 budget says, with permission of presidents: The most important project in the United States is to prepare for discussions about the future policy of Iceland's communications with Britain as a result of the United Kingdom's eviction from the European Union. How much money should be spent on this important project, one of the most important projects in the United States? The figures don't appear here, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u355	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the comments. First, a little bit about the defense. Whether we like it or not, the world's conditions are as we know them. Everyone knows what changes took place in our part of the world and, in fact, around the world after the takeover of the Monsters. It affects us. It also touches us that around the country, there are submarines that we haven't seen in a very long time. We need to respond to it outside other threats, from computer attacks and terrorist attacks. We have a responsibility to protect our citizens, and we do so in cooperation with our fellow nations. That's why we're here. So if we go to the foremanship of 2021 in Strasbourn, we'll be here in a special way. However, there is no secret that we are always looking for the most practical means to care for our interests. A report on future foreign service points to the obvious, simply that the world scene is changing in that way so that we can see many markets that are becoming enormously large. If we are to maintain the standard of living and maintain this financial program, we must sell it to these people for goods and services. That means setting priorities in an effort to meet them, and that is what we are doing in all our plans. Regarding the cost of Baltrexit, it is noted in a report by the minister of foreign affairs that we will discuss tomorrow on the cost of the London embassies. The major part is the focus of Baltrexone although the cost will not be complete when Bgreit is finished, but we do not have the exact earmarks in the Ministry when it comes to the Bgret case. Of course, a lot of time goes into the business office and other such activities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u356	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. However, for the next five years, I would have liked to look for the financial resources to spend on this important project, but it's fine to know that it will appear tomorrow during the discussions at the council. The other separation of the case I wanted to mention here is the development team. It is certainly very positive that Iceland's contribution to development should be increased in the next few years, for it will later be more rewarding after a tender year. I'm happy to hear it, and I'm celebrating the emphasis on Iceland's development team of women and girls in developing countries and extending access to education. Of course, I would have liked to see even more ambitious goals in Iceland's donations for development and that we finally meet our promise to meet the United Nations goal of providing 0.7% of the citizens of the nation's income for development cooperation, and thereby appoint us beside the countries we are making. It would be good to know why the contributions were not raised beyond what is presented here. Besides, I can't see that this is the same focus as in the last government, which is giving part of the donations for developing cooperation with refugees and the rest of the country. The fact that they are part of the official international development programme for Iceland does not depend on a general definition of development cooperation and is by no means consistent with Iceland's aim for developing cohesion. If this is true, I'm surprised to learn that the cause of refugees and refugees falls under the task force of the Ministry of Health and Internal Affairs and can be greatly increased by the financial resources of that class but not taken from financial resources in developing cooperation. I'm asking for an explanation of the highest order. In addition, a minister of foreign affairs is required to explain to us more fully what it means on page 6. 175 to increase the importance of business ventures ahead of you when it comes to developing teamwork.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u357	A respectable president. I just want to draw attention to the fact that there is a tremendous rise during this period of development. That's a huge amount of money. By 2023, we have reached 8,300 million. If they were to double the amount, it's a huge amount that is needed at least To tell us where they're gonna take from. I think it's cool to do well in evolutionary matters, but there may be something else when it comes to where you're going to take the money. It is also important to make good use of these funds, and taking such steps makes the matter difficult. When the time comes to settle, we simply apply the same rules as other nations. Refugees and refugees are taken into account when it comes to - yes, yes, yes, it is, and we just follow the North countries in this respect. [[Up front.]] I know it by heart, I've gone over it. Each of us can examine this. We're not making our own rules, we're just reviewing these international rules and applying them. What else? How should we compare ourselves with other nations if we are going to have any other account account account account arrangement that is to be considered in public finance? Why should we? You can debate whether to raise or lower, but I think that would be the least unwise thing to make things differently from other nations. We can debate the amount and the like, but let's do it the same. With regard to business emphasis, proper president, let's go to Iceland. Why are we in the place where we are? This is because we have access to other markets. The exact same is true of those nations. Therefore, the comments on what is stated in the FAC report are also that we cannot do this alone, i.e. Public members, if we are to reach world goals and if we are to help these nations. The job life has to come to that. We are doing nothing but learning from the nations that humans say we should learn from them. Then I refer specifically to the northern countries, but there are, of course, other countries that can be referred to. We're not gonna invent any bike in this. [[The president calls.]] We will learn from those who have done this longer and who have contributed more money.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u358	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs mentioned earlier in his reply that the budget was determined by the Ministry of finance and, of course, the Senate. Of course, it is so that the minister of foreign affairs then sets the budget in order. I've heard the stories for quite a while and a little bit of the time that the priorities of Iceland's interest management have increased slightly behind the Bgret against the UK in order to ensure Iceland's business interests for the fine country. I've heard, however, that was at the expense of our interest in Brussels on the EEA deal. When I read this, I see the wrong one. I must say that I loved to see it on page 6. 164. It quotes the fine report of international services for the future of a changing world of interests. It specifically speaks of the more efficient implementation of the EEA Convention, which includes the good report of 32 to 40. I very much appreciate reading in 32nd degree that Iceland's stakeholders in the EEA will be reinforced with the primary objective of affecting interest issues at the formative level in EU decision-making institutions. This is contrary to what I've been hearing from a few sources. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister a little more on what this involves. I'd especially like to hear how to do that. Ministers prioritize these two types, i.e. Our interest interests in Bfenit, on the other hand, in Brussels due to the EEA Convention. Also, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether he counts this interest care well enough now and has been or will be under the schedule. Third, I ask if this means that more people will be located in Brussels to protect Icelandic interests against the EEA.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u359	A respectable president. I don't know what for. A senator is listening to what stories. I suggest that he ask the person here if he's hearing any stories - there's no secret what's going on here - and stop listening to stories in a town from some genius. It's simply this way: Britain is our second most important market. The United States is the most important market, and Britain is the second most important. We guard our interests there. That doesn't rule out other interests. This report, as far as I know, has been distributed. Parliamentaries, on a step towards improving the implementation of the EEA Convention, are reviewing these programmes, as appropriate. A senator correctly referred to the protection of the EEA. The short story is this: We did not have a problem with the introductions far off and only when we were trying to join in the EU. Then it was actually taken down the system, we can say that the representatives of the faunas were in Brussels, and the EEA deal was not as important. Thereafter, the palace of induction went up, and there is evidence that we could have cared for the interests of our interests better than we have. The simplest picture is that we're going back in this regard. The cost is natural, at least at the standards of foreign service. It's not just that we're getting more members into the foreign service to do this, but we're doing what's absolutely necessary to get the Ministry of Education into the Brussels Mission to monitor what happens there. In particular, we are trying to influence matters in the early stages. I'm having a bit of a hard time going through the report in these two minutes, but it's been distributed to the council to include that we can discuss it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u360	A respectable president. In view of an initial response, the highest. Minister I'd like to point out to him that I was doing exactly what he was asking me to do, which was asking the highest of things. Minister if I heard any stories. That's what I was doing. I certainly have the report, but thank you very much. Minister for pointing it out to me. Maybe I'm just getting the wrong idea, but I thought it was the best. A minister would take these questions as if I were to minimize Iceland's interest management with Britain or suggest that Britain was somehow not important business areas and our interests were not important there. That's not what I wanted to say, it's only that interest care is extremely important to the EEA, as shown in a fine report. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I just want to hear about it a little bit more about the other Ministry. And be sure to correct me if I'm hearing other wrong stories: Telev. Minister that there is enough to be done according to this strategy in that Iceland's Ministry has its place in Brussels? Tells you the highest. Minister that according to this strategy, the budget is enough to support Iceland's stakeholders for the EEA? Or the highest. Ministers that more is needed or may need to be done? I'm just gonna say it as it is that if it is, then the one here stands absolutely ready to stand with the highest power. Minister in promoting that interest. That's why I'm asking. I hope my first question or that wasn't something annoying. I think we're all on the same team when it comes to Iceland's interests, even if we ask questions about the various stories we hear here and there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u361	A respectable president. I just want to pray. A senator's reputation. After listening to the second answer, there is no difference that there was no reason for me to be upset. A senator. I hope he respects me for asking him to respect it. The suggestions given in this report have been hard work done. It's also connected, like a whale. A senator has already studied his future foreign service. We also focused on strengthening the interest guard on the EEA agreement. Is that enough? When is it enough? I don't know, Mr. Honorable President. At any rate, I feel that this is a well - thought - out and wise suggestion. True, some of the initiatives involved in the induction process have been carried out. I feel, however, that more than that needs to be done. This is suggested by the EEA agreement that we can interfere at early onset when the White Books appear. I want to believe it and trust it. This is a natural marked change in this area when we have already done these things. At any rate, let us give it some time and see how it works. But then it's like all these things are in the process. We will not be able to control all this environment. In short, I say that I think that these suggestions have come to a good job for people in this matter. It is a pleasure, and there is oneness and solidarity about it in the government. But that's the way it is, I hear it, in general at the council. However, I would like to encourage us to be very alert not only to the Commission but also to the council when it comes to EEA affairs and, in fact, other interests of our own. There are opportunities and international threats, and especially in business matters. But when you ask a minister, "Do you have enough?" It's just a dangerous question. In case of a moment. A senator will someday become a financial minister, and he will never ask a professional minister for that question. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u362	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to say that I find this conversation with the minister of finance is a very good way to approach the subject professionally. In this brief speech, I would like to discuss particularly the development of additional cooperation and spending on projects that will be involved. Development teamwork is one of the five issues under the topic of the Ministry of State. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: Iceland's U.S. National Policy is based on clear guidelines on democracy, human rights, equality, sustainable development and peaceful solutions. The government's aim is to increase contributions for development in the coming years and aims to make it 0.35% of national production in five years. On page 18. 160 of the contributions of the Parliamentary Directive for the budgetary programme for 2019-22023 shows that the main projects of the seminar are two-sided and multinational development cooperation with selected member countries and regions, international institutions and civil organisations. Projects are carried out by the Ministry's Development Work Office, two African emissary offices, Malawi and Uganda, as well as the New York, Geneva, Paris, and Rome regular committees. The same page also shows that contributions to the State Department on budgets for 2018 totaled over 15 billion dollars, about 1.8% of budget A. That's where about to flow Approximately half, less than 7 billion, for development cooperation and international institutions. The time is fast running out, and I'm going to get to the questions. On page 18. 163 states that the government is planning to contribute to development cooperation at 0.35% of the gross national income in 2022. That's what I'd like to say. Minister, in view of this development, whether or not the highest. A minister sees that we Icelanders have achieved the United Nations goal of providing 0.7% of the gross national incomes for development cooperation. [[The president calls.]] Does a minister think that this is a realistic goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u363	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech and the inquiry. When we're talking about this huge amount of money that we put in development cooperation, such as always, but especially when we see this huge amount of money and this huge increase, I think we're going to need more discussion about how we do it at the council. If we were to double this, it seems like we're going in - we're talking about 10 billion more a year if we went up to 0.7%, even more, 13 billion. It is an enormous increase if we are going to take it in just one year. We would not do so differently, but we would have been especially careful about how other nations do this. That's what we're looking especially at now. I think there's no reason for us to pick up the bike. There are certain things that I think we've done very well when it comes to evolution, just in fact, in that brain very well. We are then responding to the comments received from this worldwide surveillance agency. In the foundation, we can say that except for what we put in everyone's aid, we are teaching what we know well. I think the United Nations University is a very good idea, first of all, the Earth's School is founded in 1978, then the Marine Lecture School, Land - healing School, and the School of Equal Opportunity. I've been attending graduation and I've met these people who are graduating from this school, and they're beautiful people who are leaving us with knowledge that I think will be most useful in their own country. It doesn't matter how it's done, and I think both of us can get along well with the development issues and so that we don't get too ambiguous about it, we need to talk about it. When it goes well and the product grows very much, it is harder to reach the percentages, even though we place more, more billions. Then it is important that when the toughness of the valley is not the first thing to be cut down. [[The president calls.]] I think this will call for a bit of discussion and very important that it be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u364	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for very detailed answers. I'm going to give you another point from the government's declaration of international policy, which states that it will focus on normatic cooperation and that this cooperation is, in fact, one of the cornerstones of Iceland's foreign policy. Change and certain international uncertainty have led the North countries to see an increase in benefits in continued close partnerships, to develop climate, to investigate in various fields, to use digital technology, and to do more. The present article took part in the Council of Northern Ireland, which took place in Akureyri earlier this week. The Presidency Committee agreed to propose a network security case at that meeting. In an explanation of the proposal, we include, by permission of the president: A network network service has been conducted for several years within the frame of NORDEFCO. - It's the northern defense team. In recent years, the Norwegian countries have built up a cohesive Emergency Response Team (CERT). Its purpose is to prevent and deal with national network attacks. These forces now appear to represent a joint course and exercise and exchange of state reports on threats and dangers in the norse environment. With increased cooperation, countries can add to their collective ability to deal with threats and dangers in the network environment. V.E.G. President. In accordance with a more financial programme, the share of security and protection funds from the State Department in budgets 2018 17% and in Tables on page 20. 161 shows that there has been a significant increase in this class since 2016. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the following questions: 1st Does a minister have the advantage of further contributions for safety and defense? I can't see any information on this in a financial program, only the development of 2016-2018. 2. Will a minister promote increased emphasis on Internet security? 3. Most important, does Ministers believe that it would benefit us here in Iceland to work more closely with the North countries on the Internet? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u365	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Hv. A senator here discuss very important issues of two kinds, the cooperation between the Northern countries and the security issues. The Internet safety concerns are security and protection issues. What surprised me when I took this office was not the will of the northern countries to work together, I knew that there was affection for each other, that all agree on it, and that it seems not only to the politicians but also to the common people in these countries, but also to an increased interest in even greater cooperation between the Northern countries. I agree there, I think it's a key. One of the areas in which you want to work better together and is absolutely necessary is security and protection. You might think that it would be different with Finn and Sweden because they are not in the Atlantic Union like the rest of the North countries, but they are not. Finns and Swedes are the closest members of the Atlantic Community, participating in most military exercises, and so forth. Network security is just part of it. The world will change, and there will be other threats. True, it is in the program that increases are expected from 2018/2023 when it comes to security and protection, and we've been adding for obvious reasons. However, it is not only about this Ministry of Justice but also about the Ministry of Justice and other problems. The world is as it is, it is not as we would like it to have it, and it is a priority to protect our subjects. The fears have changed, and we have to face them. It is very important and very good to be able to work with our friends in the North countries when it comes to it and to our other alliances.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u366	Mr. President. I'm going to this conversation with the highest. Minister of State to briefly make a mention of two of the most important deals we have with the outside world, one on the European Economic Area and the United States Defense Convention. I'd like to express my satisfaction that the General has agreed to my request and 12 other members of Congress to report what is called the benefits and failings of the European Economic Area. It has been some time since the last important report of this kind was made. There have been significant changes and disturbances in the European Union, a revolution in Iceland's economy, and a very important Norwegian report has been published as a pattern. There is no recommendation or requirement for Ministers in this report request, I have full confidence in a minister in the subject, that he appreciates the matter and extent of it, and that he accepts it as most likely to be a good and useful and solid basis for objective discussions and policies for Iceland in this important issue of the coming age. On the other hand, a contract is very important to us and to our foreign relations with the United States, of course the 1951 agreement, the defense agreement. In recent years, in our relationship with Icelanders and the United States, there has been a number of developments that are most likely to commemorate military elimination and related events. I would like to use this opportunity to ask how a minister values a relationship with the nations, as it is at the present time, as well as what action he considers possible to strengthen and strengthen, us and our allies for the better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u367	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for good advice and good inquiry. First, I thank you. A senator for taking the initiative at this report request to me. I think it's a good time to go over the pros and cons of the EEA. I believe that the conclusion will always be, without me writing the results of the report, I'm not going to do that, that obviously this is a huge deal. But like a dog. A senator, who is absolutely correct, said, is important because things change that the tools that we have in the contract to protect our interests are fully new. I think it would be good if the report included how we've done it up to now and since what has been happening in general. This is an enormous issue that is important for all to be aware of, pros and cons, and members of Congress and nation to take their stand on decision making, continuation, and so forth. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator met the question on the head when he said that this would be the basis for a more objective discussion, since the facts are missing, there are all kinds of discrepancies, and it is important to present the facts and discuss them. A defense deal with the United States as well as its involvement in the Atlantic Community is very important when it comes to national security and protection. Our dealings with the United States have a long history, and for that whole they are very good. They haven't changed. There's been a lot of discussion following a change in the United States government, and they believe things have really changed, but they are not. The relationship is based on something far deeper than the fact that rulers are coming and going. Fortunately, communication is good. In my next answer, I might find it easier to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u368	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. The two contracts discussed here are certainly of great importance to us Icelanders. It is important that we identify the new European situation, including our own interests, so that we are in the best position to care for our interests in the coming future. There are significant changes in this situation in the European Union and the challenges we face in the future. As for our relationship with the United States, it is and has been a cornerstone in our foreign policy. I would like to use this opportunity and agree with a minister when he says that its roots and nature are much deeper than that it matters precisely who is the United States government at any given time. This relationship has survived severe neglect over the course of decades. It's not long before the deal is 70 years old. Let us remember that the first visit of the President of Iceland after he was elected to the General Assembly on June 17, 1944, was west through the ocean to Washington, to meet Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Of course, the United States' acceptance of the independence of Iceland was a prerequisite for the establishment of a republic here in that year. Mr. President. I'm retrieving my gratitude to the Minister, and I believe with regard to the request that has been prepared here as a subject that it is in very strong and safe hands at the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u369	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his trust. He describes the relationship between Iceland and the United States. There is nothing to add to, knowing why. A senator of this matter very well. Actually, it is historically remarkable that he noted that when it came to the first visit of the Republic's first president, it was to Franklinn Delanos Rooseveltur, then president of the United States. There are other things I'm not going to do here. What I'm going to do is that my publicity, because I have the opportunity to do it, is as important as the situation in Europe is for us as well. A senator's point is just as important today that if we are to maintain the standard of living that we would like to maintain, we need to increase our export costs by 1 billion per week for the next 20 years. We have to look to see also that things are changing, and we could see here a new route pretty soon. It's gonna be like a new Suez ditch or Panama Canal with regard to shortening, this is a shortcut between Iceland and Asia by 40%. This is something that we need to consider, opportunities and threats too, but we must take advantage of the opportunities we have in regard to, for example. Service transactions are now quite without borders. We have become a tourist country, and we have these goals we want to set in order to maintain financial planning and other matters that we will not build the increase in these traditional industry, fishing roads, industry, and even tourism. We need to make good use of high - tech, creative articles, and we need to sell them to people who are growing up, this intermediate, product, and service. I'm not trying to belittle what happens in Europe, but we need to look at the fact that these Asian markets are growing and some people are selling them products and services, and it's very important that we stay there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u370	Mr. President. There are two things I want to come on, first of all, development teamwork, just a little bit. Whatever the minister says and however you look at the data, development teamwork is increasing that is positive. But it only increases because of the commitments made by Icelanders. Of the exchanges that were here, and when you read through old conference speeches, I also feel quite clear that the vision of the left green and the prime minister, including developing cooperation in business, is clearly different from the highest. Minister. It is suggested in the strategy that commerce should be made more important in developing cooperation. What exactly does that mean? According to international definitions, trade is not being implemented into developing cooperation. I just want to know, is the highest. Minister with full support for the left green and prime minister in this case, increasing the importance of trade in developing cooperation? It'll be interesting to hear that. Then, the second, which is also extremely important and is difficult to say in one minute: I am glad that the implementation of the EEA Convention, the most important business deal that Iceland and I have ever had, is more potent, as the financial programme says. Now it comes to the ears of voices, including from the Independence category, which strongly question the value of the EEA Convention, this most important business agreement, which includes the strong doubts about the so-called third energy package of EEA. Does a minister agree, then, with what comes from the Independence Party, that at some point the interests service has not been cared for by the State Ministry and by the cases of the Ministry of State, which it is proper to mention has been under the leadership of the Independence Party in the past few years? Failure to care for this interests at some point, they are being tried to support this interests, including some of them. Because of this? [[The president calls.]] And where are the extra interests spending? It's clear that we have to put more into this most important business deal that Iceland has ever had.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u371	A respectable president. There are no international commitments that make us raising contributions to development, that is, just government policy. With regard to business and employment in general, it is no secret that developing countries have called for increased access to other markets. In case of a moment. A senator watches what evolution has been saying is, in fact, just what we said at the time and do yet, we wanted to have access to other markets. This is followed by comments from a day - to - day report that show that we need to have our professional life with us when we are building these nations up. This is exactly what has happened in the Western world. This does not have to surprise anyone. In terms of the more intensive implementation of the EEA Convention, I think most of the threats towards the EEA treaties are that the EU has undermined it by not highlighting the two supporting systems built up in the EEA Convention. At least it has been difficult to deal with, such as the highest. The secretary of finance was over here, the EU in this respect. It's just not consistent with the EEA deal. Then there is the other threat that both Iceland and Norway have been speaking the contract down. It hurts really bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u372	You gotta be kidding me.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u373	We're looking at the wrong moves that go by the edge. Councilmen reverend, e.g. about 90% of EU types are included in the EEA Convention. [[Up front.]] That's wrong. That's 13.4%. This is suggested in this way to try to establish that this is a non-employable agreement and that we must walk in the European Union to any effect on this area. These are the main threats to the EEA Treaty, the European Union inexorability to build on the two supporting systems set up, and in Iceland and Norway, to undermine the EEA contract as we know in recent years and decades. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u374	Who's trying to undermine the EEA deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u375	Mr. President. More is involved in turning matters upside down. But I'm glad to hear that now the Secretary of State is perfunctory here and is going to fight for the EEA deal. Then I hope that he goes, he goes down as he is in this chair, straight home to Valhalla, and speak exactly like this at the conference of the Independence Party, which was only this week to warn specifically of a deed on the basis of the contract. I ask again because I didn't get an answer, "Where does that shift make independents? We're talking about the energy package. We handled it very well on the Foreign Affairs Committee last night. Of course, everyone has a backdrop. Is something happening that we've missed? No, foreign service has done pretty well in my opinion, but according to what lndependence says, and in their meetings, the interest service has gone crazy somewhere. And who was to stand up for the watch? Independence at the Ministry of Industrial and Business, now the Ministry of Business, then the Minister of Foreign Affairs. There's no one else, it's political responsibility. Then stand up for it. I would like to support the Minister in ensuring that the EEA's policy will be maintained. There's nothing to be heard about here, just by the way. I am convinced that every step Iceland has taken on the basis of the NATO co-work, the EFTA Convention, the EEA Convention -- yeah, because it's such a big interest - has strengthened Iceland's sovereignty but not weakened it. The voices of the Independence Party, the skeptics, the conservatives, are mastering this category, which has, in its history, had taken these important steps in Iceland's commercial and foreign history. I don't like this development in the group that has been a bit of a shift, but it's up to him in this field, compared to the highest watch. Minister says. [[The president calls.]] I miss not having conclusive answers to developing cohesion, whether a minister has the full support of left greens to this interpretation of evolutionary cooperation and trade. I want clear answers on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u376	The president asks the senators to respect their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u377	A respectable president. It was a delicate spot on the back of the body. Senator. Hv. A senator just has to live with it. [[The point is, there are some things...]] If you've missed it, then you've missed it. A senator is presented in this document as a government policy. We're in a hurry. Hv. A senator may have been so brief here that she doesn't know the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u378	Oh, oh!
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u379	It is just the lack of experience that makes these questions take place, as you can see. Hv. Clearly, a senator did not listen to what I was going over. I considered that what we do know is that a palace of induction went up when we applied for involvement in the European Union that we should never have done. Then the oracle's palace went up. Then the security went down. Then we took out the agents in Brussels from the faks, and we're taking it back. That's what we're doing, I'm telling you. A senator to read the report. That's it. I think the discussion has been made because of the accumulated objects associated with the lack of two solid solutions. It's just a fact. It's interesting to hear the retreat that really wants to walk in the European Union, but it doesn't dare to say what would mean that we have to cut our freedom of business. I know why. When I was informed, members of the convention, or leaders, of the convention called me all names of evil, from data that were carefully hidden in the adaptation discussion, what it meant for our business policy if we walked in the European Union. This means that prices would rise on products produced outside the EEA, customs products would increase by several hundred, and computer systems would need to be set up to a minimum of 3.8 billion to complicate our relatively simple business environment. Where's the rear? The repercussion is in the EU. [[The president calls.]] When they're all over the EU, they're not doing anything but excusing it. It is a clear goal for me to present the facts, and that will be what I will do. I'll tell you, I'll just predict that, that it's going to get bad at the moment. Councilmen who are already suffering from the EU infection, they're going to be in a lot of pain. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u380	Whoa, I'm scared.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u381	The president's right to both the highest. Ministers and senators must respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u382	A respectable president. I feel like I'm a bit of an intruder in some old leprechaun I'm not quite good at. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Foreign affairs will be discussed in particular tomorrow, but I would like to use the minutes I have to comment on the European policy of the government. I sometimes feel that Europe is not on the schedule and may not be on the schedule, but it is certainly on the program here tonight. The European Union is also often referred to as a state seeking power in Iceland, but the fact is that the European Union is an Internet network, it is a relationship, a common market for sovereign countries that meets in business arrangements and relationships between themselves rather than intrudingly over one another. This is one reason why this part of Europe has been at peace for over 70 years. A small and small country like Iceland needs solid allies to achieve political goals in foreign affairs and to trust their economy, and they all depend on a clearer communication and respected policy. For many years, the United States has foretold that the interests of public and corporate interests are best paid in this coalition. Recently, there have been voices about evaluating the benefits of resigning from this field, which is taught by the EEA, perhaps calling this movement of Iceland from EFTA ▪ ideal away. It seems that there are two - sided discussions with both Britain and the various European countries that are not spoken of the United States. I'm not gonna ask the highest. Secretary of State whether he intends to support the full involvement of Iceland to the EU, but I would like him to talk to me about whether he agrees that the EEA is a future arrangement in the relations of Iceland and the European Union or whether he will provide for a two - sided arrangement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u383	A respectable president. I don't know where it came from. A senator has his ideas about government policy. We're not putting up here a report and a plan for interest in the EEA if we're going to walk out of the EEA. Is that not quite clear? It's quite possible to go that way, as some did, though I didn't see at the mouth. Senator, at least not in this discussion, creating a reality, and then speaking out of it. If we just talk about the facts, we're in the middle of what journey we're going to. It's presented, including. magazines in a report that was common. A senator has his hands. Europe's not on the agenda? We have every reason to believe that if we are going to maintain a standard of living in this country, we need to increase the export value of about 1 billion per week for the next 20 years. We're not going to do that in Europe. Hv. A senator knows that if we enter the European Union, we are shutting ourselves off in business. There will be an increase in prices outside the European Union. We need to increase the number of customs here by a few hundred. It must be set to a minimum of billions, comparable to the amount we put in the National Guard, just to a customs system, a computer system, to complicate our business environment. The European Union is not a network. The European Union's executives, it is enough to meet alone, make it their goal to create a European Union. There's no secret and there's been a deal. Therefore, these democracies are being referred to, and the European Union has been involved. In the difficulty of feeling that they are not affected by decisions made there. Of course, we'll take a little bit of this, we'll take 13% of the EU contract, but this would be a whole different thing if we walked in the EU. In what decade was it determined that the EU had guaranteed peace over the last 70 years? Was this true after World War II? Was that during the Cold War? Or was it after the Berlin Wall fell? This doesn't make any sense. What was at peace in the continent after World War II. [[The president calls.]] While there are good things to say about the European Union, that is not what kept peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u384	A respectable president. Actually, I said in this part of Europe. When I was talking about this great interest in two-sided negotiations and two-sided agreements with the European Union and with the individual states, I was more involved in the views that you have had within the highest category. Secretary of State and any other group than I'm doing the rest of the government's ideas. I think you can say that in a report at the highest level. Minister is Summated up Iceland's relationship with the European Union. On page 18. 11 where you're talking about the EEA says: The European Commission and the European Commission, which include the European Commission and the European Commission, are in a position without voting.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u385	A respectable president. We cannot make two-way agreements with the European Union, at least not when it comes to business, because they have a common business policy. Just so I'll continue with that, we've got 90% toll freedom with about the same toll number. There's 26% of their tax freedom. That is why the products would go up for Icelandic consumers if we walked in there. I'm just asking, "What European country do you think is affecting decisions in the European Union? Where? We talk about democracies because we take over 13% from the EEA and we complain that the European Union does not respect the agreement when it comes to building two solid solutions, as mentioned. That's what we're talking about. But how do you think we'd be doing this if we had all the money and five senators out of 755 or what? The European Parliament is no ordinary assembly. A senator cannot even deliver a bill. [[The president calls.]] I don't have time to go over it, but if you do. A senator believes we'll be leading what happens in the European Union if we enter it at any time. A senator with optimism. I like to be optimistic, but there must be some limits. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u386	Mr. President. In this discussion, I would like to agree on the security and protection process. The budget of action shown in the financial programme shows that maintaining the activities of the CAP should be maintained in order to cope with increases in air space monitoring and protective projects. I would have liked to have an explanation for this on the part of the highest. Minister. What are some of the high sums in this regard, and what does this defence - related project involve? Do we see evidence that the National Guard is developing into military activity? Is that the policy of this government? There is also the table on goals and standards considering the proportion of budgets and the support of implementation in the country from the PLATO funds and the reference to the defence agreement. In 2017 there were 400 million under these forces. From 2019 onward, 1.7 billion are expected annually. This is a significant increase. So I want to ask the highest. Secretary of state for what these funds are intended. The task table contains a feature called the number of lodgings within the safety area. This was shown in the preceding discussion, the number being increased to 400. I want to know why this is necessary. Is it possible that they are preparing for a fixed presence of troops at Keflavík Airport? Is that the policy of this government?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u387	A respectable president. Just to answer that, they're not planning to arm up the National Railroad and they're not setting up a permanent military base here in Iceland, and no one's asked for it. This is mainly due to the rise in Russia's activities on land as we know it. It was just a few weeks ago under way on the Show Up. I got it. I got it. A senator to find out, that was done quite well. During this period, an increase in donations for projects for security and protection that we are obliged to participate in is expected mainly to be expected. During this period, the aim is to promote and ensure the active participation in the activities of NATO, ASE, NORDEFCO and the United Nations in the area of security and protection, as well as the two - sided security work with the United States. The plan expects a new transponder and its operation. That's the big amount. There's nothing really new about this. It is meeting the cumulative need for protective and protective workers in accordance with the standards of the Atlantic Community and providing regular maintenance of instruments and systems linked to the involvement of Iceland in air space monitoring and air space monitoring around the country. In addition, Iceland's hostilities need to be improved over the years, including with increasing beds, so that adequate equipment and security are available to receive forces in times of peace and danger of war, if necessary. The financial agenda does not allow for these costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u388	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for detailed answers. I just want to introduce myself to the fact that I welcome increased funding for developing cooperation, and in this regard it is very important to make the most of the money. I know it only because I work in this field. I've seen that it really matters which staff we can handle in this sector. In the Middle East, for example. There is a great need for midwives. There's been a considerable discussion of them here in this hall lately. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to consider recruiting more of health care professionals for these tasks, e.g. midwives. Now I think about 30 midwives are going to be free to work, so I can check that out. Besides, I'd like to finally ask a little questions, and now my time is over, at most. Minister at the end what we shall gain from our supply to UNESCO. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now it's 50 million. It is good to know the benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u389	A respectable president. We are natural, as it has been said, that there is an enormous increase in contributions to development. I think it's something that's not just a reason. The Commission of Foreign Affairs maintains that all things should be discussed specifically. Of course, we will come up with a new program that will be presented in both the development committee and the State Department and the Council, where we can clearly discuss these items. A senator was referring to and had excellent tips on this matter. With the offer in UNESCO, they're a highly respected international organization where we've had a representative before. It's our turn to volunteer, i.e. This has spread among the northern countries. There is no doubt that sharing in that work benefits us and has benefited from it. The exact way we measure it may be turned, but it is also a decision not to volunteer, for it is time for us to reach the North countries, the root of which is between countries. [[The president calls.]] It may take more than a minute to review these issues. I hope we have a chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u390	Mr. President. This discussion, however, would not be a bit interesting. I trust it to the highest. The minister of state will answer me with his familiar modesty. Of course, it is very interesting to listen to declarations at the highest level. Secretary of state when it comes to rejuvening and how we're talking down the EEA deal. I'm pretty sure our cousins and neighbors in Norway are not very concerned about the presentation of the EEA Treaty, but I'd like to think that there's a debate between the members of the Independence Party, which is exactly a matter of digging off the EEA community. It makes clear that the criticism they members here present is that the Ministers of the Independence Party have not cared for Iceland's interest management at the time of the introduction to the EEA types, now the last of the third EU energy package. I like what's best when we're talking about the highest. Secretary of State is how he evaluates his interest in European cooperation. He's talking about $3 billion induction of the customs system. This is what I call a bean count when we look at the global interests of the country of foreign trade, financial stability, and the cost of independent currency. That is what our presentation in the European debate has primarily been about, how we create ourselves, the Icelandic economy, which, in the long run, will work in the long run. We even watch. so that the business of the independent currency cost us about 200 billion a year. If so, I am not deeply concerned about the cost of monopoly upon bringing in a customs system to the highest degree. Secretary of state entering. What would be much better in this business discussion of foreign policy is that we had before this discussion was discussed with the secretary of state reporting on a review of the foreign service of many very interesting documents, but has not yet been brought up in the council, and indeed the report that foreign ministers are expected to report to the council in the morning. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not to be seen in this program at the highest level. Secretary of State when it comes to the budget itself where to locate the expenses to meet the changing international priorities in the coming years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u391	A respectable president. It is good for humans to teach mildness of temper. It may have been time, and it is good to have humble senators in the hall. When I talk about what I'm talking about. Senators are speaking down the EEA Convention, I'm just going to ask one question why do you guys think we're about all types of the EU in the EEA deal? Why are you doing that? You're talking about 75 constituted 90%. Why are you doing that? That's not true. That's 13.4% from 1994. When you speak in this way, you are conscious of speaking down the contract. Hv. A senator should not come here and be ignorant. In terms of the single - trade cost, the number of tolls needs to be increased by several hundred, and that is not a single cost. The high cost, a respected president, is that of increasing prices to consumers and companies. During the adaptation interview, they never told us that they would, but it shows that people would not close the volume and want to have counter measures because it was against Icelandic industry that the prisoners would rise. They don't tell you for some reason. Now that the EU is properly trying to bring improvements in the euro because of internal weakness, I don't think this is quite the time to wave that piece of paper. Let's just start by seeing if they can get ahold of it. If someone seriously claims that there is stability in all EU countries, the relevant person does not have access to the Internet, so much is certain.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u392	Madam President. When I'm at the highest. The minister of state here speaks of the ratios of the implementation of EU-Types, he well knows that most of the types he refers to are under the common agricultural policy and on-going fishing policies not covered by the EEA Convention. A very careful, efficient and detailed report by the Norwegians on the benefits of the EEA work included it suggests that the Norwegians had adopted about 75% of the EU's actions and rules. This is very clear, and it is made clear in that excellent report. I hope that report is highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has been assigned to transfer the benefits and defects of the EEA together activities to the same quality as those of the Norwegians because it was a very detailed review of the benefits the Norwegian think they have gained from the EEA partnership and the result is entirely decisive, broadly positive. [[The president calls.]] In fact, I'm glad to hear the highest. Ministers are saying that the benefits of the EEA work are unambiguous. That's not what I hear from many of his gang members each day.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u393	A respectable president. The facts are true. We've taken 13.4% of our types from the date we entered the EEA Convention. Hv. A senator can join all the numbers he wants, but he does not run away. [[Up front.]] Still, he continues to do so. Why undermine the EEA contract?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u394	This is bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u395	He's trying to undermine the EEA agreements and no one's been harder to undermine the EEA agreement than the EU. It has to be stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u396	This is a barber-free bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u397	Hv. Also, a senator has not informed the nation, although he knows it, about the consequences of being in a joint business policy of the EU. This means that prices are rising on the market to the public and to the company in the country. Then there are more than just some things. A senator was in the second answer hopefully, and I hope that this is how it will continue, only to withdraw, at least he didn't try to claim that the euro was the solution of all matters, for it is half a good thing to talk about today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u398	A respectable president. I'm here in brief explaining the next five years financial program in terms of the four issues that I hear as a minister, i.e. research, innovation and knowledge branches; tourism; energy issues; market surveillance and consumers markets. It may be said that all these areas of the matter are being further developed in a direct or indirect way. Not only do I look at the financial side but I also look at policy, goals, and measures presented here. The responsibility of the 7th topic is divided by three advisers, but the lawsuit under me is innovation, competition, and knowledge branches. This presents the future view for the whole language field that Iceland will be responsible for research and knowledge and for the aim of developing an international competitive environment for research and innovation. The main objective of the event party is first increased export prices based on innovation, increased competition, and a lower rate of rules. Second, increasing the practicality of greenhouse gas emissions and environmental impacts. Third, the annual increase is being done in fields of knowledge. One of the most important challenges of the seminar must take place in the development of a innovation policy for Iceland in accordance with the Treaty, but a number of other projects are given here. As members of the Parliament know, a large increase in donations has been received in recent years, with the highest attention to increased donations in technical development funds and the increase in reimbursement for research and development projects. These two factors increased by 80% between 2015 and 2018. That certainly is a great increase, but we are going to do even better. In accordance with the Treaty, there will be reimbursement for research and development, from the year 2020, which will be useful to companies on projects as early as 2019. In this respect 600 million are expected in a financial program. A forward look at a sustainable sector that is balanced in economic, environmental, and social aspects is presented in a tourism service. The three main objectives are to support sustainability in these three areas. Long-term travel services must be implemented, but other focus on activities and measures include review of the topic management system, review of the laboratory and analysis, support for the market centres, support for tourism facilities, new avenues for remuneration and clear regulations, and increased monitoring of temporary housing rights. The budget for tourism increased greatly in budgets for the current year and is expected to be largely maintained, except for temporary allocations, which explain largely the reduction in the plans for the year 2020. However, I assume that if the funds fail to eliminate them, they will be moved from year to year. In energy, we provide a vision for the future that Iceland is responsible for the development and use of renewable energy on the basis of knowledge, professionality and speciality and the purity of the environment and energy resources. The primary objective is to increase the competitiveness of energy markets on the basis of the three sustainability. Measureable objectives that support the vision and the main objective are four, first of all, that the balance of supply and demand for public markets will be ensured, and by the energy security of households and companies; second, increasing the share of renewable energy sources; third, to equalize national energy costs as a result of the distribution of electricity and house heating; fourthly, minimum requirements for the implementation of electrical security values throughout the country. Long-term energy policy for Iceland will be the most important project of the topic field. Many other projects and measures are mentioned. There are no significant changes in expenses to the jury except for temporary additional funds to meet the need for core temperatures due to a change in law that ends in 2021. Our vision of the future in the market and consumer business is about efficient economic activity and well - being on the basis of stability, active competition, transparency, and healthy business practices. The objectives are three: first, increased transparency, active competition, and a healthy business practices in finance and commerce under five defined measures; second, increasing environmental awareness and environmental solutions on the basis of market surveillance and competition and third, increasing public confidence in employment and marketing monitoring. Five measures are given to achieve these goals. I look forward to having a conversation with the members of our congregation regarding our future outlook and goals regarding these important topics that I hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u399	A respectable president. The proportion of transport services of national production is increasing and is now higher than in the fishing industry and the production of metals combined. The economist estimates that the total transport income of foreign tourists studied 463 billion dollars. in 2016 and be approximately In the year that is more than water and aluminium products combined, a total of 39% of the population exports. Iceland has become the most expensive destination in the world, with a price of 28% higher than any other country in the North. Travel has become one of the most extensive economic sectors in the economy, but in 2017, more than 27,000 people were involved in tourism. The situation is that 1% of companies have half of all transport income and 93% of tourism companies with only 19% management income. Thus, the transport service in Iceland is characterized by a small number of large companies and many small ones. The large companies are all in the southwest corner and are very dominant throughout the nation's discussions and markets. The number of tourists against the population is farest in Iceland compared to Europe's most popular tourist countries, which provide a clue to the pressures of the nation's infrastructure. The distribution of tourists needs to be done much better, but at the same time as the role of the market room in the country, financial contributions have been cut down and all the funds have been placed in the market abroad. A respectable president. I am happy that the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir produces positive, ambitious goals and measures in this trade, but they are a bird in the forest rather than in the hands of reducing donations to the tribe of Gad. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she does not find it hard to reduce contributions to the seminary at the same time as its importance is growing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u400	Mr. President. Last year, the Ministry of travel was able to expand the scope for that. I made the decision to set aside some of the capital exactly to promote the market areas of the country so that I could say that cutting down to the market room of the country is an interpretation or a result of the work we are in that I cannot agree with. I've said many times that the market agencies are a top priority all over the country to promote tourism, to carry out national assignments. They're closer to the countryside and closer to the population. It is simply not true that there is an increase in international markets. We've had agreements with the Iceland lab on the market. This is illustrated by the way we divide money within the topic field. I'm myself, for example. to believe that the 2010 Eyjafjölókókus campaign was under attack. There are various tasks on the table, and whether they should remain on the market abroad on the same scale is one of the points we are going over. This is not to say that it has been added in foreign markets and that it is not being cut down to the market room, but the task is to promote it. Similarly, there are different posts to consider. It is especially seen in a market room in areas that have simply not benefited to the same extent by the number of tourists present.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u401	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'm going to use this latter part, which I have to make up the publicity of innovation, but more than half of Icelandic companies with ten employees or more are doing innovations. As a general rule, it is estimated that to produce money to the community, the proportion of enterprises involved in innovation would have to be over 80%. So, obviously, there is much work to do here, and we in this country are submerged by the other northern countries of this country. There may be a chance that we will be lost because of the fast social development in which the production of valuable things in the knowledge industry continues to grow. The budget does not discuss strengthening or increasing a competitive fund. Rather, it refers only to evaluating the effectiveness of the Technical Development Fund, molding its role, evaluating innovations, and developing suggestions for improvement over the next five years. This is good and blessed, but technology is way too fast for us to take five years to examine, reevaluate, shape, and suggest. We need to go much further in strengthening the environment of innovation in Iceland than is expected in a financial program. While there may be an increase in this series of subjects, the increase simply does not reflect an increase in the importance of innovation in Iceland, where the competitive environment and the market are all around the world. I'm asking the highest. Minister to see if she thinks she has enough money to improve the environment of innovation in Iceland and then, after, how work will be conducted in a new creation policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u402	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions and will agree with him on the importance of the environment here so that we encourage and that an enterprise has the opportunity to work in innovation. As I mentioned in my speech, these two factors, on the one hand, have been raised to Technical Development Fund and the other by reimbursement for research and development projects, increased by 80% between 2015 and 2018. One of the things we want to do and show in a financial program is to review and evaluate what it has done. Of course, we need to keep track of a significant increase in the amount of money that is good and that we believe in and know to do good, we need to assess the results it has yielded to the continued decision - making process. Overall, about 8.5 billion from the state funds are being taken into this innovation environment. There's a lot of money, and that's why I've had that opinion, especially in view of the fact that it's been greatly increased over the past few years, that we're going over it. Of course, it is part of a innovation policy, but it is also part of priorities. We need to review where these are today's funds. What are they working on? What are they doing? Are they all in the right places? There's nothing unnatural about it, especially in a system that's moving fast into such an environment, that we might want to move this money around. It is also a matter of priorities. There are various projects in the Ministry that we place money on, so if we feel that there is no power anywhere, it is also a matter of setting priorities. I'm willing to do this, so I feel comfortable with the money given to my Ministry on a innovation project.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u403	V.E.G. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to deal with the airports into the country and in terms of what can be done to spread tourists all over the country, since the last semester has been tried to attract tourists to more parts of the country. In order to reach that goal, there are many factors that have been done, and it is clear that more people are benefiting from it. My speculations turn to the airports, as I said before, and I'm especially concerned with the conditions shown in the fact that aircraft prices are higher at Egls and in Akureyri than at Keflavík Airport. So I'd like to ask the highest. A travel minister is certain to not intend to force us in the Central and Economic Organization to prepare a legal bill that will take measures to reduce fuel prices to international transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u404	Madam President. Thank you. For this question, a senator can, in effect, agree with all that was presented in the case. You see, that's right. We have a lot of money to give tourists more to the country. We have tools to do so. Like a snooze. A senator came in, even and maybe mostly for more people to enjoy, i.e. All the land and the inhabitants of the whole country, as well as the people of all parts of the country, to spread the strain and relieve the pressures that exist in some other parts of the country. Of course, it is the advantage of all of us to be successful in protecting nature, to ensure the good survival of tourists, and to consider the social barriers of the inhabitants of this area. Regarding a particular question. A senator's use of fuel costs is one way he can go to help more people fly straight into Akureyri and the Egyptian airport. This has been examined for a long time in councils, certainly not in the custody of my Ministry. However, it is reported that in a rural program proposed by the secretary of transportation, this is one of the proposed projects. I'm hoping we can finish that case. If it can help to help others decide to fly into these areas directly, of course, it is an amazing tool for distributing tourists, for the country to benefit and for spreading stress.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u405	It is a pleasure to hear how much we agree on this matter. Of course, this should be considered because we too need to defend the land. Even now, in some places, even irreparable damage is already possible, so we need to take these matters a little seriously. To put this into context, I understand, actually, there are year-old figures from the Northern Marketing Institute, that there is a 7.7% difference in jet fuel between Cheflík and Akureyri and it is 15.2% between Eglish and Keflavík. V.E.G. Minister mentioned an earlier flight fund that I'd like to ask about as well. It is now scheduled at the end of 2019, but it is still in the schedule. It is claimed that he will be smaller. I think it's a little special because we know the number of tourists is going to increase. Then I wondered if there will be any other means to back up the air development fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u406	Madam President. We've put 300 million a year in aeroplane development fund. That amount hasn't gone out. Actually, we would be in a very good position if we were to do so because it would demonstrate the scope, so it has started very slowly. Of course, it takes time to build these routes up, and all these work takes time, and people are not giving up on them at all. Air development fund will not be laid down 2019. In fact, we are assuming that, in view of the fact that the amount has not gone out, to distribute money for more years, so the amount goes from year to year. Since then, we haven't been able to contribute a bill, a total law on flying development funds, for ESAs. It makes us subject to the de-maimis rules, I just don't know the Icelandic translation of them, and I can never distribute very large amounts to one person, at least not while we haven't put this law through. But, in effect, these rules are to be weighed down with the cost of fuel. But I rejoice, however, that it should be equal to him because then there's a certain advantage for this field on the land, pushing only those who are thinking of flying in other places. I've allowed myself to say that I think so, and I hope it's true, that this is not a question of whether or not this flight will really be on schedule and we'll get it right because we have a lot of money. I simply think that the market will also see that it is acquired by flying straight to the Akureyri Airport and the Lagin Park Airport.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u407	Madam President. I'm gonna split my minutes into two pieces, and I'm gonna be a little specialized in the first one. Then I'm just going to talk about energy and innovation and focus on important factors in less greenhouse gas emissions, a domestic fuel production. We all know what I mean by them, of course, I mean hydrogen, which is becoming increasingly popular, methadone, methadone, and biodisil, both of land and intestines, and then connected it with innovation. Emphasis is put on increased financial support in the budget. I counted 900 million in an increase over five years. It targets, according to the same plan, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reduce environmental impacts, so, of course, this should play together. Then there's a question to the highest. Minister, whether in the state financial programme there is sufficient emphasis on promoting this fuel industry and what may be the first steps. Then, of course, I mean to strengthen it not only with the knowledge available, as it were. Molecular production, in good gear, is far from sufficient, but it is also synthesised. There's plenty to take. This is one of the most effective ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, along with the electricalisation of the automobile fleet.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u408	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's question, it certainly was detailed. In general, this is what I have to say: On the one hand, we place great emphasis on innovation in a government contract, in a financial plan, and also on environmental issues. We have generally, in action and goals in all areas, tried to link objectives to the environmental element. Of course, this is especially true when it comes to innovation. That is why I have emphasized that these emphasis on innovation is actually technically neutral, i.e. not to be made up of, but to be an environment where all technology is possible. Whether in discussion or possibly in action, we have certainly stressed the electricalization of the transportation, especially the electricalization, whether by automobiles or ports. But I'm just saying, if the environment is so that everyone can make their ideas come true, take their own resources and other things, then the right to remain neutral. If there is a demand or a supply for methadone and hydrogen, and as a matter of course. A senator came in here, and the technology and innovation are supposed to have the same chance as with the electricisation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u409	Madam President. It was absolutely right and good at the highest. Minister. Of course, governments can have a measure of authority too. Of course, by studying the technology and having a political view, you can choose, or reject, or at least has specific leadership in these matters. But okay. A new and advanced report was recently submitted on the tolerability of tourism and various means of access control, which everyone knows will be more urgent with each course. I'd like to ask you, " How does the government budget mess with the work ahead of you? ' In effect, I ask: Is there enough research available in the tourism sector? What further evaluations or protocols in these areas, on the tolerability of access controls, are we working on? I've had a lot of fun with that. According to a national financial programme, with permission of the highest power. President, reviewing the travel system in order to improve the effectiveness and perspective of the Commission. In other words, it is to strengthen and strengthen the administrative element. In this regard, I would like to ask: What might be the first step in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u410	Madam President. The right to answer that question. A senator can also be careful about this neutrality because all of this changes rapidly. At some point, there is a technical solution to the main issue, so it can change. It is also part of that vision. As for the research, I made my decision last year, when we received this leeway in travel, that promoting research would be a top priority. We've actually begun our work on it, but much is still to be done about the process. We will prioritize, as I say, in terms of the budget in the fall. It is very interesting to see that when we post funding for research and when people start investigating them, a large part of it is actually going to remain. This requires permanent financial support. Then new projects come up. That's why I've talked about this little Merover, and all I can see is that it's going to grow and it's going to need it. It is not unusual for nature and its use. In terms of projects other than the report presented on Friday, we have started a project that includes working with us at the management center of tourism. That work is very brief, considering that we find specific sustainable references and we try to find the challenges of tourism in Iceland in terms of the economic factor, the environmental factor and the social factor. If this works well, we have a foundation on which to base our decisions. We start in the fall of this policy for the article. Of course, you really need to talk. That is why I have high hopes for this challenge, and I look forward to working together and talking to the council about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u411	Madam President. The energy crisis section claims that all electricity production in Iceland is of renewable origin. This may not be quite correct, since tools are about whether geologic plants actually produce renewable energy. They need further research, and I miss doing little about energy research. How's the top? If energy research is enhanced by a minister taking into account the reduction in energy spending by 318 million during this five-year period? I am happy to meet the goal of leveling energy costs for the distribution of electrical energy and national warming, but I would like to ask how it will be financed and carried out. It refers to the subsidies of house - to - house heating costs in cold areas that are already in place. I suppose this means a further increase in subsidies. But who is taking this cost? Does the warm areas of the house - to - house heating cost increase? Is this how the equation is thought, or is there expected to increase the cost of the plan? I couldn't see it. In addition, it has been identified as the target of rural energy subsidies and is estimated to be 95 to 100 percent in 2022. The subsidies are limited to the distribution cost of electricity. The power of electricity itself will remain in full force through a private firm in the very strange competitive market of the flag competition. Does this mean that distribution parties take this cost or that the equation will be at the expense of those who now enjoy the most favorable hatches of electricity distribution? I'd like to finally ask the highest. Minister if he intends to increase the subsidies of electrical energy to garden farmers who have complained for years. [[The president calls.]] They represent innovation, even in travel services, and they could enjoy the innovations that I know to the highest. Minister's up to speed up.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u412	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's questions. There were a lot of them, and I don't expect to answer them completely. I expect that. A senator is referring to a Hellishe activation when she brings up the question of self-sufficiency, or not, otherwise. It's better for a senator in his second speech if I misread it. As for the house warming, there is a budget that costs them the equation, and it's done well. However, with regard to the distribution costs, it has not been as successful. The goal of the State to achieve a certain proportion has not been successful. We seem to be following our tails a little bit. When we place an additional amount of money on budgets in this regard, the price will increase. This is one of the main forces involved in the development of electricity charge, that we have two registrations. One of the factors to consider is whether there should be only one currency, not two. This means that urban costs will likely increase to some extent in order to level them abroad. The reason for this observation in this group of three phase electricity is that if we are going to go to major structures there and the only way we can post it into the registry, it would, of course, increase substantially in those areas. These are very large questions, and they are not answered in a financial program, as this work is being done. With regard to the house - to - house warming, it has gone much better and is particularly under financial protection, thus financing it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u413	Madam President. I was referring, not necessarily to Hellishic activation, but to geothermals at all. I think that if you start a conversation with the personnel and specialists of the Power Institute and Power Plant, it's not fully explored and it's not known if the geothermals are usually renewable. Therefore, we need further research. I didn't feel like I was getting the complete answer to the transmission of electrical energy that was supposed to be equal, i.e. Who would take that cost, so I reiterate the question of whether the distribution and transport party will take the cost of it, which means that less money will be made to investments that are absolutely necessary in the electronics system all we know. I would also like to reiterate the question of gardening farmers. They use a lot of energy. They've been leading a very new world with no support in the past few years. I specifically mention the tomatoes of the World of Peace, which is becoming a top tourist destination in the South, very entertaining. I ask again whether a minister will either supply energy to them or increase innovation to garden farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u414	Madam President. To answer that. Of course, we can continue to increase the equation. It would be a good decision to do so, but we can only see that it has failed to produce the desired results. For one thing, we are considering which other ways we can improve our ability to do so. It just hasn't worked. In terms of transport, there is only one currency. To answer a question about garden farmers, I didn't get the answer before, the livestock contract will take it in part, but I'm still saying that gardeners today receive a substantial subsidies in terms of energy costs. I'd like to mention, though, that you're absolutely right about what you're doing. Of course, a senator with many farmers is a nonsense innovation, including gardening buildings. Because of what? Of course, a senator specifically mentioned the World of Peace was all at once, gardeners, innovation companies and tourism companies, absolutely outstanding. True, I've set up a team to take a closer look at the situation in terms of the electrical price. What is the payment today? What other means could possibly be taken if there were any more? Such work has been done before, but no special result has come from it. We set it off about two weeks ago, so I hope that there will be some clearer conclusion. Although they are being paid a substantial amount of money today, I also accept the contract. Then there is another question: How far should we go? If we are talking about the environment of every other word, it is not very environmentally married to import vegetables to a large degree. Then it's better to be cultivated here, except for all the other reasons, so thank you. A senator for this question.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u415	A respectable president. Today, we've been discussing financial programs 2019◯2023, and now we're talking about the areas in which the traveling, industrial, and innovation minister is taking it. Indeed, there are important issues, goals, and measures that would be of interest, such as. innovationism, but I intend to stop first the objective of socially sustainable tourism in my first speech. In particular, I rejoice that a higher proportion of tourists are visiting the country and that this will contribute to the smooth distribution of tourists across the country as a factor in promoting an increase of social relations around tourism. Actions that stress the reality of these activities include: Support for the development of destinations within the country and support of the market facilities in the country. I think this is both very important. This target also refers to a project aim for presentation and implementation of the destination plans for a resolution of a policy-making strategy to be held at the General Parliament. The national markets are aimed at working on the presentation and implementation of the destination plans, although the responsibility is at the employment and innovation department. Marketing agencies are on their way to this job. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if direct communications or the Ministry Convention and the market agency are expected to handle the project or if a travel agency is intended to handle these future communications despite the available bill for changing the role of a travel agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u416	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. It shows exactly what it says about the social and social boundaries. Today, we have fewer than eight tourists on our own. Hence, it has been simple to say that we live in a large country and that we can welcome many millions of tourists. It's not that simple. But it is also important that we be able to distribute tourists all over the country, both for the benefit of the whole country and for the spread of the pressures. The protocols are important, have been in progress for a considerable time, and are taking steps to ensure that each area has its own special status, determines the destination of that area, and that they will then be considered to be the organizational work of rural society, and that the cooperation there is good. Marketing agencies have carried out a very good job in this regard as well as in other assignments that they perform. Hv. A senator in particular asks how communication between the travel agency and the marketing agency should exist in the future. Until now, the Ministry has assigned a travel agency to negotiate with the market agencies. This also applies to the agreements currently being prepared between the travel agency and the market room. A travel agency is the traveling agency under the Ministry. It's totally compatible with a bill I've recommended for a travel agency and the role of the Agency. How that will be in the future is something we can measure at any time, and nothing will prevent it from changing. We have so far considered a travel agency to be the institution to be involved in this business with the market agencies. However, I state that the Ministry is in a great, good, close partnership with all the market offices.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u417	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of the questions and the opinion that this is so important is the subject of this discussion. Changes in organisations inevitably cause a measure of uncertainty about the implementation of existing projects. Now, I'd like to get into the energy issues where the big project is a long-term energy policy. The part of the budget also contains important targets on the management and development of energy in terms of both improving housing conditions and supporting the work of Iceland's climate targets. The discussion has included aims on equal energy costs because of the distribution of electricity and national house - to - house heating, both the subsidies of cold areas and the distribution of electricity into rural areas that are extremely important. And then I think it's important to draw out the goal of providing minimal security for electricity output as national values. Actions related to these goals include Intensification of electricity development in cooperation with energy companies, analysis of potential for further national and local energy weakling, and high- and small-situary pumps in cold areas over time. In this regard, I'd like to ask a minister who is a potential partner to set up defense pumps around the country. Where will this government assignment be supervised?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u418	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's questions. As far as the recovery of electricity is concerned, this work is going on, just as I did in a few moments earlier. Based on what I've heard about that job, I've only watched, it seems to come out of it. Suggestions that will require system changes to enable us to get faster into these projects. There is a lot of order around this and a limited flexibility. As Richard has said, our situation today will be compared to that of the 2036 C.E. It's a little too far. Therefore, we have considered ourselves willing to examine other ways to achieve that goal. With regard to the microindustries, we have a working group. An energy agency is coming with us on this project. There are great opportunities for this, both to improve and to promote the system, as well as to make certain farms, especially for farmers who have such an environment that they can go to such projects. In terms of the heat pumps, this has been done. We've been on individual projects, such as. In the Western Islands and the Snæfellsnes. The main partner in it is Power Institute. It's been that way so far. It also requires a great deal of cooperation and conversation with the communities. It's been going well, but I can still see an opportunity in it, and that's why it's in the financial program as a special operation that can work for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u419	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing about the government's financial plans for the next five years, and we'll discuss specific factors that are at the highest level. Travellers, pro-travement ministers, Minister of Ministers who is in charge of the Ministry with this long and unfavourable term. This is certainly a vast and interesting topic field. I'd like to ask you a few questions. We'll see what time it is. Under the Ministry, they include the management and development of energy. I would like to ask about the competitiveness and skill of a company in the country competing with comparable electronic urban areas; that they are enabled to stand equal to other companies in their area. In particular, I would like to mention a business in the South Sea of Thomson. This is a question of three-phase power fixation for the job, which is usually on the smaller side. There, there are either quick fees or a huge price to be paid to have three - fold equipment turned into a phase, which at times can't be done at all. In this thick book, I see in the proposal that, below this point, the scope of the transport and distribution systems of electricity (e.g. electricity compression) and to ensure delivery of electrical energy across the country. How is this to be understood? How's the top? Ministers that the competitiveness of the ministries of the country's rural areas is equal in this respect? I can't see it under goal, in chapter 15, otherwise than I was reading. I see time is up. I just have to come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u420	Madam President. You're right next door. A senator with this quality and access to it is not equal to the situation today. We've talked it over in this room many times, and long before I came in here, but I haven't done it yet. I have made an offer, and I have recommended a synonym for the construction of electrical energy systems that have the advantage of trying to promote an increased level of reconciliation in order to fix the system we have. A better link between national parts, trust the system, energy must simply be available for smaller and medium-sized enterprises to either exist or expand. It's not like today. However, we do not make decisions about individual projects. Since disputes have gone on for a long time, it has not been so that we come here with a unique case to fix it. Rather, we try to watch our system completely. Similarly, in the case of the three - phase electricity, it is just past the edge of the ocean. A senator that if we don't do anything and let time pass them, as mentioned earlier, is the year 2036 C.E. It is a question of what places you can wait for it or whether it is reasonable to expect it. That's why we have this job going on. That work is going well, but we will have to make changes to make real success. Undiscovered, it will not go on unless it is all too slow. Therefore, I simply wait for that work, hoping that it will either bring back to the former part of the summer or at the latest in the fall, and that will call for decisions to follow that I am eager to take so that we simply do the work better.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u421	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for her answer. I'd also like to encourage the Minister to work on this. It must be ensured that the entire business of the country is under adequate conditions so that people in the scattered regions can win their jobs and run their small companies without having to pay large amounts for their own electronic energy access. If we get into the tourism service, its implications have increased in the past unknown way in our national culture. The number of tourists increased 24% in 2017, and this year it appears that an increase of 11.6%, as reported in the report, will be 2.4 million tourists this year. What, though, are the expenses for the seminary? In 2016, 1.9 billion. Next year, 1.7. Six years later, with little changes, the expenses are 1.6 billion, i.e. lower number than the last two years. Expenditures to the jury are down. This should take into account that there are 500 billion 2017 incomes and an estimated 620 billion in 2020. What does that mean? Put simply: This does not compare sound and image. The government will not contribute to the development of tourist facilities during this eight - year period. The proposal suggests that there is a sharp imbalance between the rapid growth of the article and the development of infrastructure and services. Yeah. This frames it in very well. There is a sharp imbalance between rapid growth and building. What, though, is to be done? There's nothing to do. What do governments intend to do while resorting to tourist attractions and tourists roaming every corner ground? Now some 3,600 companies are active in this article, at the end of 2017. What will governments do?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u422	Madam President. It follows a business that goes around the community that there will be plenty of expenses. Therefore, when I talk about the needs of tourism and where to spit into the palms of the hands, I say that the Environment Ministry will spend four billion in the national development program during the period. The number of agricultural donations is two billion higher than that of the undiscovered landkeepers. Police spending goes up hundreds of millions of dollars a year. In some respects due to increased monitoring at tourist locations and in highlands. Road campaigns of nearly 17 billion in three years out of ordinary donations are especially useful to travel. There's been a lot of talk about missing an injection into the transportation system. This is largely for tourism and tourism. We have a tourist attraction fund, with nearly 800 million a year. In other words, growth in infrastructure has not been self - sufficient, since growth has so far been insurmountable. When you say it's not the head count that matters, you're right. But it will also be true when the growth rate is slowed down, not by the head count, but by our being able to get a better organization around the branch, both in the administrative capacity and just as important throughout the country as in these tourist areas. That's gonna mean we have to have a set access control. It is also to increase these boundaries. In some areas, the site needs to be built better by infrastructure. Sometimes that is not a good way because we do not want to put more wood on the area so that the natural bulb that people are coming to see remains a natural bulb. However, some measures can be taken to increase these natural barriers. One way to do this is to better travel into the area. The projects are big and wide. I wish I had time to go over what has been done for the past year and what lies ahead. [[The president calls.]] The challenge is great, but I am confident that we will succeed. But then the whole body of Congress needs to be in it, and especially the article itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u423	Madam President. I'd like to make the first pass of a conversation about innovation in Iceland, and I'd like to worry about the position of that lawsuit class. I would be interested in hearing the highest opinions and viewpoints. Minister of these matters. We have experienced significant improvements in the rise of innovation and technology in recent years after a major growth in the years shortly after a collapse. In fact, we're so lucky as a nation that we have an enormously powerful initiative and pioneers, I would say. They've never lacked the drive to create and shape new ideas. But it is as if we lack the environment for these same companies that spring out of these fertile soils. We're still dealing with the same problem, the companies get on too seldom, and the companies that have done it in recent years have sadly many who fled the country or have been sold all too quickly out of the country of my knowledge. If business leaders are talking about today, there seems to be very little growth and export today on the basis of technology and innovation in recent years. It's a concern to me when we talk about the opportunities of the fourth industrial revolution. That's why I would be interested in hearing the highest viewpoint. Ministers when it comes to supporting these innovation companies, how we create the competitive environment with what is best done in our neighboring countries, perhaps especially when it comes to our donations for development and innovation, and especially public donations. We see that there is no great ambition in this financial program. These contributions have been building up as a percentage of national productions over the past few years. [[The president calls.]] We are well below the OECD average already and appear to be in accordance with this plan that we will be further reduced. It would be interesting to hear the ultimate view. Minister of this important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u424	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator mentioned the growth after a collapse. We managed to play very well out of a difficult situation. That is in much context to the prosthesis as long as possible. A senator also mentioned how each government, but perhaps less so, responded to that situation. There are many things governments can do to contribute to the growth of the environment. In general, promoting the competitiveness of the workplace. We are on this program to take a very large step in my opinion where it is assumed that they will increase money to raise the roof for research and development. This will be of particular benefit to larger companies who have been involved in this and to larger projects. We've heard of companies going to other countries on such projects because the environment here is more attractive than here. We're mostly reacting to it, and I feel we're taking it to some extent and deciding where we're going to be strong. We're putting about 8.5 billion in innovations in general in Iceland. That's a lot of money. We've added significantly to that, especially in the Technical Development Fund, as well as in research and development. But it's true that when the cake gets bigger, the same thing doesn't count the same ratio of the cake. There are many other things that we can do, and I've long spoken of as one of our competitiveness is actually better access to foreign experts, whether by any tax action or by the fact that it is easier for foreign experts to bring their families here. [[The president calls.]] It also plays the education system into. [[The president calls.]] It's a multitask.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u425	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I am glad that the objective of this government is to remove the roof of reimbursement for the cost of development. I think it's a very important step that's been called in a long time. It's a pleasure to see it happen. However, I miss not putting more ambition on the part of the public to a competitive fund of innovation and evolution, giving increased strength into this environment. I think it's really important, and, eventually, it's a very good investment for an Icelandic community if we're going to build on a new creation and knowledge community. I think it's extremely important that we disappear from our vast resource focus on the growth of employment and look at the tools that will clearly be in the future. We have a great deal to compare with this powerful innovation gene, but we need to create these companies a much better and more competitive environment. Of course, it has the top priority. Likewise, high interest levels are of enormous importance. There, the bioavailability of these enterprises is not in the same way that funding is offered in our neighboring countries. There is much more to the management of these enterprises, but there are other factors that I would also like to find interesting to hear a minister's opinions on and more detailed interpretation of government plans. I hit e.g. According to the financial programme, competitive assessment of the laws and rules of selected sectors is planned. I think it's a very pleasant step, in fact, that we should perform competitive evaluation of the law and the rules in general for the entire industry. But I would also be interested to hear who would be assigned to perform such a competitive evaluation. I know that, for example. OECD has specialized in such assessments and has done so with great success. On the contrary, I think we need not find the bike. On the contrary, we need to take advantage of the knowledge and experience of those who have done this before.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u426	Mr. President. I'm talking about the competition fund, because of what it's about. A senator stated that the fund would need further improvement, that, if you take together research and development, and then technical development funds have increased by 80% from 2013 to 2018. Hence, one of the projects is simply taking out the results and part of innovationism as well as reviewing where the funds are, these 8.5 billion, and whether they are all in the right places. In terms of our resource economy, it is particularly satisfying to see that we have many of our most powerful innovations based on our resources. Therefore, a resource can be said to produce a resource. There are a lot of projects. I don't see that we're gonna be able to put a dot behind them. It is also a challenge for other countries to go elsewhere as they grow; countries strive to keep them at home. We're making plans for innovation, and this work will be in close cooperation with the council. But in order to spend the last 38 seconds on competitive evaluation, I am very excited about what I am doing. It is recommended that OECD be employed as a means of success. The idea is to take out one law book completely, and then, every time we do a bill and put a law on it, it's determined by these factors. That's why I expect it. My suspicion is that we may have more obstacles than we realize. That is why it is an investment to review a set set of laws now but then an investment to the future, that we think about it when we set laws and rules. I have high hopes for this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u427	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers for the review of the topic sector. I can't imagine that she really likes the estimated contributions to classes other than innovations, which reduces donations for both energy and tourism, about 506 million on the other hand, and 343 million on the other hand. This must be a significant blow to a minister whose two rapidly growing lawsuits pay large amounts of money to the nation's population and face considerable investments. At the same time, the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, plans to cut down the contributions to them. If we look at the energy issues, it is clear that these are highly ambitious goals that I think most of us can agree on. But so is surgery. If we look at major public parties in the estimated energy exchange process, I can't imagine that this plan is particularly practical, and I wonder if there is just enough to be done. Based on the objectives of the programme, the 13% share of renewable energy in transport is expected. I'm sorry, there's no rhythm at the Paris convention. When the climate goals are adopted, it is clear that high rates of fines will be cut off. You see, we have to pay a fine if we do not keep our commitment. Thus, it will be much more expensive to Icelandic society than simply to stick to one's own and do better. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if it really thinks it is practical to achieve these goals in the way expected in the available schedule. And also, if she thinks this is enough to make it possible for Iceland to live up to her commitments in the Paris contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u428	Mr. President. First to see if this financial plan is a shock to me, it's not. It's not a shock at all. I have been a great spokesman that we are very diligent in reviewing where the funds are, whether they are in the right places; and so are many of our priorities. There are many assignments we do. They're all fine, but they're not important. I don't have a problem with setting priorities within my Ministry. I wouldn't have set goals into a financial program that I thought was unrealistic that we could live up to. Therefore, I believe it is absolutely realistic to reach the goals set out there. In terms of energy exchange and the target, it is, fortunately, not just the government to reach them, i.e. to do the work that needs to be done for them, it is a powerful cooperation, especially professional life and government. It is the job self that is powerful and can do many things, it is the advantage; it is also the common people. For the cut-off, these are not significant changes. If we set aside temporary reserves that were needed to meet the core resources needed for the laws being made here, this is not a cut-off on the energy issues. In travel services, I have named the air development fund where we have been putting 300 million each year, but only a small portion of that money has gone out. We would have really wanted to see more money go out. It would have meant a greater dimension. But it hasn't been. That's why they'll move from year to year, and we'll be able to distribute them over time. Likewise, we have not received a bill through the ESA in terms of the state aid of the air development fund. That is why there are not many millions of people on each assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u429	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for her answers. Sadly, though, they may be a bit like the financial crisis, a tiny nothing, and a measure of disappointment, despite their sounding out loud. It sounds good to impart knowledge and to identify the potential for minor activation, and goals are important. But the reality, that five more years are to be taken in addition to what was once determined, is rather frightening. There is a screaming lack of action to deal with what really needs to be done, such as securing the energy security of areas with reduced delivery security. Instead, assessments of improved areas that live with reduced safety should be performed. It's supposed to take another four years. This once again reflects the ambitiousness of this financial program. I'm asking the highest. Finally, a minister will decide whether or not the goals and actions reflect the goals and plans set out in other energy programmes and whether these activities work together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u430	Mr. President. Of course, for one example, building is an essential basis for energy exchange. Governments have given rise to various assignments. This, along with other measures, has led to high levels of national energy exchange. Iceland's in second place behind Norway. We are doing well in spite of our lack of effort. Then we need to expand our energy exchanges. The next challenge is this ocean - related operation. I'm just a small example tomorrow that shows how all of this works - about signing a contract with New Energy on the other hand and at sea. With this contract, we will see how much growth is being done in the commercial world by a number of people who see the opportunities to achieve these goals and work with us. That's why I say, these actions and goals, I'm not afraid we won't get them. Happily, though, it is not government alone that will do all the work.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u431	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of travel, industry, and innovation for the tour. It's a big group of paintings under the Minister. First, I'm going to isolate myself from travel services and quote some points from the budget by permission of the President: ▪ In recent years the government has emphasized the need to attract tourists to Iceland by means of integrated marketing measures. Then measures have been aimed at distributing tourists around the country and over the whole year. In 2018 foreign tourists will be seen around 2.4 million in a future year.... In the future, passengers can be expected to do approximately 3.5 million foreign passengers to the country in 2025,◯ Then there is another reference to identifying the endurance of nature, society, and economy, as measured by the means of currency, including the U.S. the possibility of a coming or leaving fee, in agreement with the article. Then, in many parts of a country where there is a considerable shortage of toilets, it is spoken of as building. Like what? paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir made me want to come to the airport fuel charge that seems to be the reason not to fly abroad with travelers. In terms of the arrival and departure event, which was discussed almost all the terms of the 2013/3016 season, I'm asking, is there any news on that? [[The president calls.]] Is something going on there? Similarly with the toilet case: Will the State pay, or will that service be paid?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u432	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. First, to answer the question about the toilets, blessed, we expect that it can be extended to three years in order to set up these toilets in the spring so that they would be taken down to the fall so that we can extend the period, increase the status. We took this assignment for the first time last year, and it gave us a very good test. This, of course, is the most important service that we need to perform, and there is no provision in this regard. It is a joy, however, to see that people have been building up and are working toward building up such places in many lands. Of course, we would want to see it more fully. If so, it would be less necessary for the government to step in. It may well be that in some areas there will never be any market grounds for such structure, and this work will be continued in the State. In terms of sustainable policy, high priority is put on it in the budget, simply because I think it is the basis for us to build up tourism, make sure that it thrives, and remain the sector that has improved both the quality of life and the quality of life of people all over the country, despite the fact that we all know that there is a need for a better distribution throughout the country. This is the project we've done at the Tourist Control Centre, to work out sustainable goals, and to try to assess Iceland's border of tourism on the environmental, social and economic factors. This is important in building all forward decisions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u433	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. I didn't notice, however, an answer in terms of reimbursement and mobilization. It was a very hot case here, as I said, during the 2103/2016 season. There was never any decision to make that caused much anxiety. It would be good to get a clear, good answer to whether something is going on in these areas. I also ask the minister: How should the state serve as a traveling minister? So that the Minister's Neon side, industry and technical education. Now the industrial and technological sectors have spread abroad, there's a lot of growth in this. Could industrial and innovation minister cooperate with the Ministry of Education on the construction of industrial education abroad? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u434	Mr. President. I beg pardon that I have not answered the big currency question raised over the past few years for the evaporation. In the Treaty, we say that the worthwhile tax schemes are put aside and that other options are considered, including the end of the day. That's what we're working on right now. We've put together the evidence that exists because, like a whale, it's the same thing. A senator who already knows this matter has entered the council, and much work was done at that time, interacting with ESAs and other products that we are simply getting together. We are then having a definite analysis of the consequences of such remuneration and starting a conversation with the article itself in this regard. It is simply in examination and processing. The financial program speaks of payment since 2020, but it is also important to review where we are paying today. What does access and stress control mean? What do we do when we have a limited resource? What may the future mean when it needs to be guided in a better way? As for industrial education and cooperation with the Ministry of Education, this better developed in many parts of the country. [[The president calls.]] There is a shortage of industrialized people. I agree with what you're saying. A senator, accepts the word and accepts a challenge to cooperate with a minister of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u435	Mr. President. I wanted to make a decision here about the words of the Supreme Court. Minister before us about the substantial subsidies of electrical energy for garden farmers. These subsidies are just for distribution. The energy itself is full. The distribution if I remember correctly, I'm not going to fully hang myself on these numbers, on average. Thirty percent of the total cost of electrical prices. A gardener may not be getting that much because of his special status - why. A senator mentioned the livestock contract that should be done for them - of course, that energy consumption is enormous. I wanted to say something. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason on delivery safety of electricity throughout the country and acceleration of triphosphate. The improvements that are being offered now, such as the thermal pumps that are even going to grow, have just been a failure. This is both a high cost for the person in need and the failures; they are not suitable for the tools being used in the business, especially for farmers, so this is not to be given well. The need for investment in the transport and distribution systems, in order to increase this delivery safety and triglycerides, is such that neither the Landsnet, Rark, or other dispersible hosts have the resources to attack the investments required. I'm glad to hear that. A minister recognizes this and realizes that it will not end until 2036. In addition to this, the State requires remuneration from these companies so that investment skills can still be reduced. [[The president calls.]] It takes either a large amount of money from the state or a huge increase in currency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u436	Mr. President. I'm afraid to mention this number, and I'm afraid I'm gonna have 100% clear that with the subsidies. But the numbers I've heard are much higher than 30%, that's something I just need to cross better. But I mention them again to the staff assigned to review this and see if we could do better. Of course, I have heard from gardening areas that have wanted to see it happen. In terms of the transport system, I agree. A senator insists that it is greatly strengthened. It's going to cost you. In the case of the Trinity, it is also true that in 2036 it is the case because it is an investment and it costs a great deal of money. Hence, a team has been looking at some system changes or special decisions. I'm just saying, I'm looking forward to getting the results of that group. I have a very open mind myself, even though I realized that part of it could enter the Ministry of finance, the holding of certain factors is there. But I have a very open mind about watching the system over again in order to achieve these goals. I believe the entire body of Congress agrees on the importance of our efforts to speed up the development of electricity development. We cannot talk about the fact that we want to see all the land and structure built up everywhere when the infrastructure is too difficult for people. That's why I say, I'm willing to watch the very open mind how we can add wood and make them say, "Here's real freedom to live."
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u437	Mr. President. As I mentioned earlier, contributions to energy are reduced according to this schedule in the next five years. But I took one goal, which is the growth of the Power Fund. In view of the limited funds available, I wanted to hear from a minister how it is going to promote energy funds, with whatever capitals, and if it was intended to further energy research through this fund or construction and investments.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u438	Mr. President. In terms of energy, there are no significant changes in expenses. What explains mainly that the number was reduced is this temporary addition of funds to meet the need for stock strengths for law change; the law was changed from 12 years to 16 making more rural communities, more projects, saw the possibility to act. In terms of Power Fund, it's one of the things mentioned in financial programmes. As I have mentioned before, it is certainly an assignment now, until we come in here with the budget, to prioritize the resources that we receive in each area. Power fund counts. He's done a lot of good work. There are opportunities, environmental interaction, and energy exchange. Simply put, my purpose is to set priorities so that we can improve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u439	A respectable president. We're still discussing a proposal for a hearing about the government's financial plan and are discussing top-level factors. Tour, economic, and innovation ministers. I'm gonna ask you some more questions, as I preached. I'm interested in asking the highest. Secretary of tour studies. All of us appreciate the importance of providing sound guidance for tourists in our country, thus feeling the most secure way to travel. It is very important that Icelanders are given considerable guidance on the nature of the country, its natural nature and its history, their education on the land and its inhabitants, their work and their livelihood. In this country, there are several schools, some at university, who offer good, meaningful, and demanding study of guidance that allows students to learn everything they once thought and to associate with nature with respect so that they will not be harmed. I ask a minister: If a minister is willing to employ himself, he will require travellers to follow a national guide, including the U.S. for the safety of passengers and the protection of nature? Is a minister willing to take advantage of the legal protection of the guide's job names? A little bit more on this. A study of tourism is now reserved for 1% of all the funds set up in Iceland's professional life studies. So I want to ask the highest. A minister of whether he agrees that it might be a great opportunity and that is an opportunity to advance precisely in this rapidly increasing industry, creating so much of our income. I'm asking if the highest. A minister thought he'd step in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u440	V.E.G. President. First to guide, travel services have increased significantly, and we have a number of related projects. The wise counsel is an example of a quality system that can be used, and it is of vital importance that we ensure the quality of our service. I've had an open mind that we'll have different paces of travel; that on certain trips, special attention will be given to safety issues. When it is necessary to be familiar with local or otherwise, a guide's requirements should be respected. Whether the job vow should be protected, whether I will put it to the test - I have answered its inquiry before, and I have not changed my mind. There I review these speculations about the Vatican, the quality and the demand. But the fact that the job name is being legally protected, I haven't agreed to the right thing to do. I know that many disagree with me, and I reacted in my day. But I haven't changed my mind about it. Simply put, I believe that we can achieve the goals that are most important to us without having to do so. As for the research, I agree with that. This recent report has been submitted to show the magnitude and randomity of the studies. Of course, this is because money for them has been lacking. I've been talking about little Merri. We see evidence of that coming. This is because we have set priorities. I can see that funding for research will continue to rise over the next few years. I think there's a real need for that. Nature is a resource that we need to use, and we need to provide extra resources for research in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u441	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers she gave. It is not ready to agree that the work name of guide guides will be legally protected or that an Icelandic guide will accompany tourists around the country. I'm the highest. A minister to consider this matter carefully. Regarding the research, research has changed dramatically in recent years. It's research. More than that, ask yourself: " Why do tourists not spread more of the country than they do today? I'd like to ask one question at the end, since I have 15 seconds, it's in the legislation on windmills, whether you're working at the Ministry, how that job goes forth and how far it's gone. It's a new field, as we know and grow, and it'll probably grow from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u442	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that I promise to present my guides'speech constantly, but even though I haven't changed my mind since last year. Conditions change. I just say, there are other decisions to make in order to reach goals that we all agree to reach. As for the distribution of tourists, I've previously said that everything the government is doing is trying to help spread the country better to tourists. It's still that much of them come here. We know this, as well as from other lands, thinking that most of them face similar challenges. But nature is the main attraction here, and that, of course, is a nonsense opportunity for us to get a much better distribution of tourists all over the country. With regard to wind mills legislation it is, in fact, under the Environment Ministry. In the Treaty, we proclaim it to establish ground - to - earth laws on windmills. We feel a great increase in its interest in structure. This is one of the things energy policy will deal specifically with.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u443	Mr. President. I'd like to finally talk to you at the highest. Minister on the affairs of tourism. I'm growing worried about this important article - it doesn't necessarily have many words about how important this article has been to us in the restoration of the economy, how important it has been to the country, how rewarding it has enriched the economy in many parts of the country, and how valuable it is - that we are not extending to the public. I feel that we have failed to create the article a clear, natural system of laws, and at the same time, we have used some kind of government guidance, e.g. In terms of the construction of a toilet facility around the country, the permanent improvements or refinements at the last minute for various structures, because we somehow cannot control how we are leading tourists around the country, how we will have paid off the article, and how we are going to organise the legal environment of the incredibly important and major sectors of travel. I would be interested in hearing the highest point of view. Minister on that. We've been having problems here with pay-outs, for example. Regarding natural passes, travel service support or return costs. We are actually coming back to the discussion about coming charges right now, but we have been without a conclusion in this important matter for six years to become. It is serious when we realize that we have gone through a complete explosion in tourism at the same time that the government has not yet made contact with policy makers over the article. We need to make good reviews. We need to get our hands on the access control, and we need to get our hands on the charge. Of course, there is an increasing concern here that is being sold or marketed to the country's common resource. [[The president calls.]] How will we have money for the nation? [[The president calls.]] Now I'm not minimizing direct or indirect incomes created by tourism, but these are certainly certain quality enterprises have access to without charge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u444	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. Of course, a senator that travel services have, as we all know, improved the standard of living and the quality of life of the whole country. This is the self - thought - provoking process that I find most beautiful in this structure, especially in the country, even though we still have much in it. I can say with what. A senator and, in effect, said that we've been chasing our tails for some of the past few years. It is simply because the growth has been great, and this has happened very quickly. On the other hand, I feel that the national infrastructure programme, represented by the Environment Ministry, is a strong indication, or, in fact, confirmation that we are looking for a longer time and that we are being able to achieve our perspective and organization on our work. Control, access control, stress control, our main tourist attractions - we're faced with a need to go to it. It's complicated in many ways. I'm not going down there because it's complicated, even though someone may object to it, I'm not pointing to it. Senator. We have a territory owned by the state, a region owned by a community, a territory owned by individuals, a territory that is peace-declared and we have a public rights, since it has not yet been accurately understood what to do and what not to be. When it comes to controlling, there is one way to pay. It's not the only way, but there's one way. What can we really do with public rights? It's true that we've been talking about paybacks for a long time. I'd just like to mention, though, that we already have a certain currency. We have a variety of services, we have a host tax that has dropped from $100. of 300 K. We've had an announcement to see if we're going to take it to a farm partner. We have parking expenses. Of course, there's a lot going on. The parks have a specific work for them. What I'd like to see is that each area will become more sustainable, including Economically; just so that the government's media management becomes smaller and smaller every year, not necessary. That's what I'd like to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u445	Mr. President. It is in itself a pleasure to hear that a minister shares these concerns. That's exactly what I'm looking for, e.g. In terms of reimbursement control, that we have already taken charge of national parks, but we have a very difficult way of opening it in access control of other areas. I understand that it may be a legal problem, but we need to sort it out somehow. I think it is extremely important that we create this work in simple, clear guidelines so that it will grow and thrive within the frameworks of which it is created. In the long run, long - term management of governments may not be successful in managing where the branch is growing, where it is going. In the end, politics are always following evolution in these matters, not leading them. We know this about the growth and survival of most of the sectors we live in today's world. Politicians are not the right people to guide the way, but we need to create the guidelines so that they are clear, clear, serving the people's goals and interests in these matters, but we need to get them to grow and thrive within them in the best way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u446	Mr. President. I couldn't agree with that. A senator when it comes to the role of politicians in this regard. And I agree with that with what. A senator that is of vital importance to our ability to create an environment here that is clear and efficient and simple. That's what we're trying to do. The parks have a fixed currency, but one is the currency for the payment, for the funding of a specific structure, and another for the control of an area. We have a specific area of the government, which is already used by some means, requiring control. The question is, What should politicians do? Should they have very clear demands on the government and the public? Then there will be the personal enterprise that will take over, and it will be done well in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u447	A respectable president. Now I've taken the wrong speech, I'm sorry. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm going to have the right speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u448	The president recommends it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u449	I would like to begin by saying that the Minister of Justice is a foreign matter, unable to attend meetings today because of foreign commitments, and therefore I will be able to account for the matters of the Ministry of Justice in the new budget of the government for 201962023, which I know so well after the much work that has taken place in the past few weeks and months in setting up the plan for the Ministry of finance. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the rights of individuals, religion, Justice, Justice, Justice and Public Security, but the last two are not much under the Ministry of Justice. The goal is to spend a total of 213 billion dollars. During the planned period to these classes, there is an increase of almost 16.4 billion on the fixed budget of 2018, or 5.5% of the budget of the budget. The increase from budget 2018 and to the budget of the 2019 budget for the three sectors is about 3.4 billion, or about 8%. The increase between budget 2018 and budget budget of 2020, the last year's budget, is about 7.8%. This increase will be new to strengthen the foundation of the Kingdom. The overall budget of the public and justice sector is increasing by 18.2 billion. during the period. There, three new helicopters for the D.C. weigh a lot, during which there will be a total of 14 billion dollars in the period. money to buy. The donations to meet the strong and more efficient border control requirements for the Schengen border are increased by 3.5 billion dollars. during the period. There will be over 7.5 billion cans. Enforced in the growth of law enforcement, diplomacy, and prison affairs over the period, the implementation of its further arrangements will be developed in next year's budget. This highlights the treatment of violent crime by police, organized crime, and general law enforcement in line with the rise in the number of tourists. I'd also like to say that contributions to support measures against money laundering are increasing considerably throughout this period. There are an increase of 91 million between 2018 and 2018. Similarly, there will be a restraint on this field. If we return to the total cost of individual, religious, and administrative rights, they will reduce during the planned period by less than 2 billion dollars. The main focus is that the cumulative effects of MABs involve about a billion dollars. reduction of projections to the topic area at the end of the strategy period. However, there will be a emphasis on strengthening the character protection of the budget, but with the implementation of a new Regulation, significant changes in the activities and role of the Agency will be provided. This includes many categories, such as legal expenses for elections and fair compensation. I'm going to mention at the end of a contract with the National Church on financial relations, but they're not finished, but the work is beginning to complete a review of the financial relationship between Church and State. Judicial contributions to the Agency to reduce the period of the programme from the current budget of 2018, when we have taken into account the requirements for maintenance. After careful consideration, they need to be updated. However, the overall budget of the topic field increases during the 60 billion programme period. K. [[The president calls.]] A new level of judgment has gone into operation, as is known here. There's a lot of work ahead of you in the courts like a renewal of local courts' lawsuits, development of national rights lawsuits, and restoration of information systems and other such. [[The president calls.]] I will make it my last word, that it is not to the courts that are thought to strengthen their foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-04-12-48.u450	Mr. President. There are a number of conflicting issues in the 20th budget of the government. The subject field is said to cover government operations, which in one way or another aims to provide individuals with services and to ensure their basic rights. There are personal protection, religion, county, Justice Department, and foreign affairs. Over the next five years, the expenses of the field are contracting. But what does that mean, chief? Will there be a justice minister? I'm here in particular the interests of older citizens in particular because of my professions in the past decade. There I have seen very relaxed service levels and attitudes at the highest level. Sadly, a minister of justice, who could not be with us here tonight, to these clients, who gave me no special reason for optimism. A foreign - city service agency that has been sought here is more like a police state than a service agency. A consideration of foreigners shows that there is little room for humanitarianness, but there is much more to talk about the sharpness of human beings. A minister of justice who has undergone a change in the laws and regulations of foreigners, thus questioning the loyalty of these individuals. The proud Minister of Justice is particularly aware of the speed of the departure of those who, according to her judgment, will be free of any international protection and that deportation can now, after these changes, include the re-entry of the Schengen area. A body of council members should be reminded that a special protection for children was taken away by a Minister's Regulation last March. So I have to ask the highest. local justice minister: Is this cutout announced in a financial programme related to the language I have now discussed, or is it the national church, a personal protection, or the newly restored Ministry of Justice facing the cut-off knife?
