ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u1	President wants to know what. General councilmen from this morning's release on the General Report from the Presidency Committee for the vote of a State accountant. Sveinn Arason, state accountant, will resign from duty on April 30. For age. According to recent legislation on the office of a state accountant, the General Assembly shall vote for a head accountant, until now he has been hired by the Council of the Presidency of the Council. The Council's Presidency Committee will no later than in April. making a recommendation to the General for an individual in the office of a public accountant and will be elected at a meeting. I expect such a suggestion to be met by a good agreement within the Presidency Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u2	Borist has received a letter from the social and equal minister requesting every time to give a written answer to a covering query. 58, of the pocket money removal system in nursing homes, from Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u3	V.E.G. President. A recent presentation of two reports on the status and vision of the housing market has been made. The situation there is not particularly good. As governments, we need to respond to the indications in which action is made. A report on the economics of the Subcommittee shall include: until the number of apartments would increase by 17,000 in 2017 to meet the needs of congregations and the underlying need. The cumulative lack of apartments since 2012 is unlikely to disappear in the next two years. Compared with that, in 2016 there were 1,500 apartments built. The new construction and population growth are expected to shed further light on the situation. A new report from Arion Bank was introduced this morning. According to this analysis, land prices will increase by 6.6% in 2018 and by 2019, an increase of 4.1% and a 2.3% in 2020 is expected. The analysis also shows that it appears that the forward side will continue to be delayed, but during the period 20188/2020, the diagnostic department considers that there are 9,000 apartments to be built. For more demand than expected, housing prices are predicted to increase approximately An average of 9% over 2018. The forwarding party has always put much emphasis on housing matters. During the season of 2013-2016, the Council supplied four very important housing products at the time. Minister of housing, Eygló Harðardóttir, including the construction of general apartments and housing improvements. The government's contract of the present government requires that the government be a means for improvement in housing. The government is going to take measures that lower the threshold of young people and take fewer money into the housing market. Among other things, efforts will be made to exploit the use of pensions, and the government is also going to start an opinion on how to remove real estate prices from the consumer calculus. I encourage the government to act in a more decisive manner.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u4	V.E.G. President. What a joy it is when members of Congress learn to the same extent that they do! This is always positive when council members have the opportunity to visit the various parties and stakeholders, and we are happy to make use of the conference days. Our candidates and I had the opportunity to accept an invitation to the Qualified Society. Was it, I must say, a very pleasant and valuable visit in many ways. The representatives of the Community handled their affairs and their struggles very carefully. I can say things with a lot of heads. Those who have said in this chair that it is time for us to do better. I'll give them a witness, even. ... tosaywhat. paritaprevir Óli Kárason, the son of Kálmur, who discussed these matters a week ago. At the same time, I can refer to the history of a waiver. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi, the Kristinsson of Kristina, in a Senate language yesterday, to the better of this group. A respectable president. There is more to this than a wide agreement. The senators in the hall, rather, expressed the will of the highest. Governments in a government contract that will now be under attack for significant improvements. That's where even the two of them come from. to the highest. A government will negotiate with the head of micro-energy transplanters about changes in the improving system, which is, of course, very necessary. It has the highest. Social Affairs Ministers are already being recommended with the aim of simplifying the system and securing forwards. There are other cases we need to finish at the same time. I'll name the bills. NPA's well - being committee, legalisation, increased public supply for people with limited skills, the introduction of the treaty, and a chosen Annex.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u5	A respectable president. On Thursday, January 25, after reading and listening to the stories of women of foreign origin that appeared in the media that day, I believe that many people were shocked by the campaign in the shadow of power. At least I had the vomit in my neck all night. Yet, I think deep down inside, we have had a lot of suspicion that some of the things that were being treated there were in our community. It's just so much more comfortable not to know about it. That's when you get your nausea out. That day we got the stories on our faces, and they were terrible. What courage and courage those women displayed there! As we noted, on December 19, we discussed the community revolution in the shadow of the power at the Assembly Hall. There are many ways to combat sexual harassment and sexual harassment. It is important that individuals change their behavior. That's how culture changes. It is also important to ensure activities within the administration and to ensure that the legislator guarantees effective sexual laws. Often, though, it is not enough to guarantee legal rights. The problem is that although legal rights are guaranteed, the rights they do not always bring. This is especially true of non - Israelite women. As a community, we must find ways to counteract sexual violence against women of foreign background, as well as other women. To do so, we need information. They can be picked up by research and cooperation with other countries. I challenge the Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities to take this group's position for special attention. How do we achieve equality for everyone in the country who limits the international scale of equality?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u6	Mr. President. I want to start my speech with a word of caution. After this, I will deliver reports of serious sexual abuse. We senators were encouraged to come in black today to support the #methoo revolution, and it's a good thing. For this reason, I would like to declare my special support to women of foreign background who did not share with us so much of their sexual abuse, which often is based on serious racial hatred - here in Iceland. So I want to call attention to two of the 34 stories that appeared from foreign women in the days, with president's permission, first from one who had a friend who brought her daughter here: ▪ She lived with a man who sexually abused her 11 - year - old daughter and abused her physical and mental violence. She announced it to the police, but they did nothing and did not even offer her interpretation services or talk to her daughter. Her husband resorted to violence, raped her, and threatened to kill both her and her daughter if she reported him again. After one year, the man was charged with another crime and entered Little Lava. A friend of mine fled ashore with her daughter. By permission of the President: One night was the worst night of my life. I remember I was working, but I can't remember much more until the next day. I woke up like someone had driven a truck into my entire body. I didn't wear any clothes and I didn't know that place I was in. I'm going to paranka, and a man I don't even know, and I'm not even coming to tell me not to be a mother sick man. All right, my boss is coming to get me. He'll come and pick me up and take me crying from this house of hell. He drives me around for a long time and tells me to relax, he'll pay me extra because this happened to me, but I can't tell you about this because I won't be able to finish college, they'll take it from me because I work for them black. Mr. President. What is our responsibility for these and similar stories? Yes, we can immediately respond to the ECPRI Commission's recommendation to set up a specialized agency to combat racial and racial prejudices. We can start a centre in Reykjavík in our family line with the United States, so immigrants can have access to a service in Reykjavík, and we can accept a comprehensive lead-in policy for immigrants. [[The president calls.]] But first and foremost, Mr. President, we can listen to the voices of these women, make them ours, and present their cause here and elsewhere. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u7	A respectable president. During last week's conference, it was reported that a greater proportion, ministers as well as ordinary members of the council, were in charge of a council hall to file a vote. paritaprevir For the request of a report by the Björn of Leví Gunnarsson on the procedure of application of the indications in the AlCollis study reports. Hv. In May, a senator first introduced this request to members of the council. After the election. The fall was low. A member of the Parliament, a press request, repeated requests for transport to the new Council. He introduced to members of Parliament members changes, as advised by specialists, that the request would be more accurate, i.e. It would be divided between the minister and the president of the Generals. The request thus consisted of three, two to two specific advisers on the indications that stood up for the administration and the response to them and the third to the President of the Generals on the indication in the studies relevant to the council. Of course, I didn't come back at this time, since May, tips from five members of the council who last week responded to the call and felt this as a coward, that the project was certainly very needed, but it just had to do it somehow differently. The fact is that a general summary of this kind is taken, so the Ministry answers questions asked by the council. That's what was trying to get through, not more or no less. During the days of their wheat bread, there have been reports of great attendances in various fields, especially in the area of improved work. There was no such shock to the government's progress in this matter. So I kept going on with the military metaphor, it wasn't even that they didn't keep the fort, they were planning for retreat. This is a serious matter, and it's awful to have to ask, a respectable president: Is this the new practice of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u8	A respectable president. In many parts of the country, roads are damaged because of neglect of the past few years in maintenance and further construction; Lakes Road, Smoke Beach, Hoglin, Forest Beach, Aarnesfjords Roads, City Corps, and so on. Fortification of the stemline structure and strict wearerage of connecting barriers has been set in the background. A major project, such as the bridge of the West Coast from Kjalarnesi, U.S.A., has been identified, and preparatory work is lacking. This has happened despite the promise of most political parties in the leading elections. The General has adopted ambitious transport plans that have not even been achieved by financing their implementation. Mr. President. General Parliament and Transporter must step in. Good transportation is the lifeline of the areas around us. It is not a means of escape after years of transportation failure to finance it by roadside roads in individual areas, such as the inhabitants of Acdéri and the citizens of the city. Transport ministers who speak for such events show surrender to the task of speaking and securing funds for the necessary transport benefits of the income products available to them by means of a number of expenditures, such as fuel, traffic, cars, and other factors. In a careful and detailed discussion, the current issue of the Bjord magazine calls attention to the fact that some 258 billion incomes from traffic during the past five years have not been used to make roads. Clearly, income and financial resources are at hand. Thus, the Parliament must take hold, as well as its secretary of transportation, lie down and follow the assignments assigned and intended to speak for. We need action immediately on the road. It is obvious that the income stocks are at hand, the funds are available, the funds collected in various ways but are not being made up for transport, which, though, is still so devastating. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u9	Mr. President. I'd like to be the subject of a heavy business. We saw one of its images in the news yesterday from the company of Odda, who broke up with 86 people. This is a manifestation of the competitiveness of Icelandic manufacturing companies. The reason is obvious for all of the great gangs of the Icelandic Crown. Business workers have to do well in their business, have good products, and can sell. There is, however, one uncertainty factor that is far more successful in the success of a lot of companies than the sectoral genius of those with the companies, there is a fluctuation in the gangs of the kroner. In one fellage, success in business and market work can be wiped out. It is long time for us to face this big problem. We're driving away a manufacturing company, a new business. These are the companies we are going to build our future on. We must face this problem. It's impossible to continue on this course. I'd like to give a witness to a meeting with Dr. Halldór Benjamín Þorbergsson, director of the Association for Business Life, which put it this morning in the form of an interview by a fraud in the economy because of the presence of the commercial hanging machine. This is a very serious matter, and I think it's time that we face it, let's seriously discuss changing Iceland's currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to make it a subject of the highest interest. Minister of Justice following an open meeting with the Board and Management Board this morning. In this regard, remember that one of the main causes of the collapse here in 2008 is thought to be a poor management organization characterized by mental, mental - health, and cousin - and - friend behaviour. Here we have an example of a minister who ignores an qualifications committee, does not follow the advice of her experts, whom she actually calls the staff of the Advisory Committee, as if it was a matter of nonconformable stakeholders in town rather than officials who work in the public service. That's a serious problem when the secretary gets the Rapporteur's attention on his work. It is worse when a minister is judged to have violated a law in his work. It is even worse when a judicial minister is judged to have violated a law. And when a justice minister is judged to have violated a law against a judge's choice, that is a terrible thing. And when a justice minister is judged to violate the law of selecting a judge for a new court level, most of the shelters - including the villains - are dumped.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u11	Mr. President. I'm going to make it a subject of employment participation for the disabled. I think it's the best we can talk about here, including... A meeting earlier today with regard to the office of Minister of Justice, but I wait a better time to do so. I encourage the administration and monitoring committee to continue their important work. It is also, speaking of the responsibility of the council, now important in view of current information that the council will continue with the matter and direct it. Then, with the help of the U.S. legislature agent, apparently starting to record the case. I think the information that has been presented at the earlier meeting is much more than thoughts, and I want it here in the pontu to state the full support of the management and monitoring committee to follow this issue, to be informed, so that we can get quite clear how the situation was handled. I believe it is urgent and important that this work be continued and that it may follow up on that. I wanted to draw special attention to the job of the disabled and the individual. in the Government Treaty, where there is a little debate over the fact that there should be a consultation with the Microcollar Union and Developmental Help to promote the community involvement of the disabled, to ensure the implementation of micro-energy donors, and I heard last week that a review should include: A dollar over the bill. We all agree that it should be revised and kept unregistered. I don't think it's the least government council members would like to back them up. I would also like to encourage the president of the Council, who is in the same category as the prime minister, to direct it to develop the rules on how to build up parts of the government and that the Council of Government and especially the Ministry - I tried to set up rules that would surround people who are disabled by increasing part - time activities and thus increasing the possibility of being disabled to share in society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u12	A respectable president. I took a silent offer to discuss only energy issues and even to be so bold as to present my vision here. I know there's a lot of demand for it in this room. I had the privilege and privilege of meeting people both in Sweden and Denmark, who have been able to deal with energy policies primarily, but energy issues in general, as well as with the way machines are being used in these neighboring countries. I think we should learn quite a bit from them about how we handle these matters. We need to look at the energy issue from a new perspective. The vision I see is that the process we're supposed to take is first to put aside what community we want for our future. Are we heading for green society in 2030, 2040? That should be the first step. The second step is what we are going to use to establish this vision of our future. A third step should be to define the amount of energy we need in order to produce our vision of the future. The fourth step is where and how we are going to acquire this energy and finally how we should transport it from A to B. In other words, I think it's important to start with the end which is how a community we want to see in Iceland, where we're headed for our resources. I have high hopes that in the community, not only do we have a parapolitic stand but we have a solidarity. I'm here to guess that the last government really opened up that these matters would be discussed on a cross-cut basis. The present government certainly thinks so, i.e. It's about how we want to see Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u13	V.E.G. President. Fishing in the current fishing year increased by 100%. The increase, however, is highest in about 127%, and in cod, 106%. The resulting increase. As a result of the release of this article in 2015, it has been criticized that this method is used to calculate the cost in this way, since the gap between years can be much and even greater if two years have passed back into the past. The annual budget is calculated from the data of Iceland's Habitat, but the difference between fish farming and development has been 20%. Yet, whether the person is making fish or not, it is equal. The bill used expires the next fall and is started at revisions. In the autumn, a grappling discount taken from the loans taken from a zeppelin ran out, which was set in its time to cover heavy payments or financial failures that ran counter to many projects. The situation today is that a number of people are dealing with emergency business problems and have been shocked to sell. The result of the fishing fees could hardly be acceptable that the expansion of the project grew dramatically since this series of remuneration, but the fact is that small and medium - sized productions have declined, and many are thinking about what they are doing. The root is heavy, and people have come up with ideas of whether a return to interest rates has been made to a host, at least Until the new and improved algorithms see the light of the day. Similarly, the national network of submarine owners has calculated that overexpension from small boats makings of up to 170 million because of a fish industry is reimbursed. The idea of step - change thought for those who have least checked is in the discussion. I still haven't met the designer who doesn't want to pay the resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u14	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to refer to the reviews following this hearing of the Commission and monitoring committee this morning that I don't feel that the discussion that took place there is any basis for the dramatic resolution as any given. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson had in here earlier. As for the work on the committee, I would like to say otherwise that now there is a conversation within the committee about which it has and is able to approach this matter. As we have seen, this is a case that has taken place in the courts and has been tore it to a certain conclusion. At the same time, certain forms of friendship are in place that the Allied agent is interested in viewing them, and this will have to be considered on the basis of the decision of the Commission's work. And just so you can see, there have been discussions within the committee and in the days ahead there will be discussions on how the committee can approach the matter. On the one hand, the committee does not have the responsibility to review what the courts have considered or to review on the scene of the General Agent. That is what we need to keep in mind. Regarding another matter that was tore up in this discussion earlier. Friðriksson I would like to guess, because I'm definitely one of the guilty in this matter, that I repeated and at various levels made comments to the form of a Hanna. Katrín Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, made comments to the president that I was, in fact, not expecting the matter to come back on the program until the matter had responded better and more to the faults I felt was in the matter. I have to admit that I didn't see the council program and this case until very quickly before a meeting. [[The president calls.]] In some ways, I can accept the blame for not keeping a close eye on me or for having a conversation with a boy. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear till the end of the day. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, the material comments to the reporting request are 100% on my part.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u15	A respectable president. I think I can claim that sexual offenses against children are the most disgusting crimes ever committed. Hence, news is coming from an employee of child - welfare authorities who has been charged with gross sexual abuse of children in the strength of their work, such as thunder from a clear sky. It seems now that the employee charged with child abuse in 2010 was allowed to work for child - welfare officials afterwards and that when the same party was reported again in August. For his sexual crimes, he would have stayed with child - protection authorities for about six months. The chief of police in the capital area has lamented the mistake of the police. Sadly, all of us can make mistakes, but in matters involving children and violence, they often fail. It appears, in both cases, that the police ordered to inform the Children's Protection Department that an employee from her has been charged with such a serious offense and that the charges have not been made in the recruitment process of the man in Child Protector. I'm not going to use my staff to get the work done by the council, but I'm going to draw attention to those details of the tragic issues involved in the council. Unfortunately, this case is another manifestation that we, as a community, do not ensure that our vulnerable members of the Icelandic community, our children, are loyal and protected by sexual offenders who not only use age and power but seek to be among children who are in a weak social position. # The capital movement's going down. And so did the #methoo. This must be corrected immediately, not with any groups, but with measures. If there is something that needs to be fixed in the letter of the Law that further expands authority to open criminal records when employed with children, this need to be corrected. If there's something to fix on reducing the pressure on the police by finally raising the money to the police, let's do it. Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Minister has the head of Child Protection in Iceland, and I call for him to take a firm step in consultation with the Children's Health Department to ensure that children in the custody of juvenile provincial authorities are not involved in the charges of sexual offenders. Minister of Justice is the head of the police in the country. I'm calling for him to fight once and for all for his financial improvement and for the increase of the force's population. [[The president calls.]] The police should not have been so desperate for human resources that the charge of child abuse ends in a thick case table on the desk. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] We can do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u16	Mr. President. Women's professional records encourage women to wear black today to support the #methoo revolution and I see that we have many, and indeed men, too, in the Senate hall took it to us. We have observed groups of women who have taken steps and reported reports of harassment and violence, now the last association of women of foreign descent who gathered stories. But there is one group of women who, so far, has not trusted to make their stories public, and these are women who are disabled. Like non - Israelite women, they live in a wide variety of discrimination, and some simply rely on the one who uses them to help in daily life. I would like the government to remember disabled women in their work changing society and in what we as a community can do to react to the #methoo revolution. I feel that it is equally important to impress on us at the General Assembly in our work to support disabled women. A law approved at the General Assembly can affect the safety of disabled women. In that light of the local community service laws that are now under consideration, I would especially like to mention them. The welfare committee. Let's see if the seed of the #methox revolution grows to germinate everywhere in the community and reaches all the women, including the women who so far have not trusted themselves to step forward and tell their story. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u17	Mr. President. Most of the people in this room may have realized that the competition for the company is not as if we wanted it to be. She's had a low profile in her recent years. We were encouraged yesterday when news came to the news that the print factory, Oddi, had quit 86 employees. These are the activities of old and healed enterprises, the Boxmaker and the Plastic printers. Odda's guardians explain that, including. with the strong gangs of the Icelandic crown and raise in Iceland beyond what happens in competitive countries. That's worth keeping in mind. But, of course, there are more elements involved in the competition of Icelandic companies than in remuneration. It's, for example. the environment in which an Icelandic company and, in fact, a home live when it comes to interest. I have repeatedly argued that the need to review the law on Iceland's Secret Bank is to make a special provision that the money policy committee should take into account interest assessments that the growth differences between Iceland and major competitive countries are not unusual. It is now abnormally high and is reducing the competitiveness of Icelandic companies because of this. The late bank is in a direct way less competitive. And we must not forget the environment we live in when it comes to the tax environment, because we have something to say. [[The president calls.]] The competitiveness of the Icelandic company is largely influenced by the decisions made in this room for taxes and expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u18	A respectable president. For some time now, I have found myself wanting to have a special discussion with the highest level. Secretary of transportation for the freedom of a cab market. I heard that he did not want to discuss this with me today or tomorrow, that he would be ready for the discussion when a report about the matter was coming. The report is definitely the finest piece of paper, and I can imagine reading it. This does not change the fact that I had thought to get a discussion here in the Polish field on the government's political policy on consumer freedom of choice at a Icelandic cab market. These reactions may well be the highest. Ministers are an indication that the government forces are out of action. But whatever the cause, I hope to the highest. The president would agree that this response by the Honourable Minister is not to be imitated and that they do not develop the habit of applying unidentified reports or other data when members of Congress request to have a word with them at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u19	Mr. President. I felt as if it were earlier for me to make a friendly recommendation from the camp of Independence, from the procurator of the Independence Party, about what the board and board of directors might do and what they could not do. What an agent of the Generals could do and what could not be done. I hope I didn't understand him right, but it might as well have been out of the question. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargia. The important thing is to the highest. Today, Minister of Justice is pointing out the responsibility of the council. I disagree with the fact that the council has not been informed on all aspects of the matter, as is currently being said. Therefore, it is important that the council, and it is responsible for the council, be given time and opportunity to follow these issues in connection with the Minister of Justice and His Offices, who have been judged illegal in the Supreme Court and to the Supreme Court. The President gives the Commission and monitoring committee the support of his monitoring duty in this large and important matter that needs to be informed on the basis of the Council, not on the basis of the Commission. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u20	Regarding the above specific discussions, the president would like to state that he has already cooperated with a prime minister to direct a minister's recommendation to respond to such requests. Until now, it's worked out perfectly. I think that most weeks from the start of a meeting here, one or three special discussions have been held each week. So far, I think that we can be reasonably satisfied with the harvest in that way. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Of course, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir says of a management and surveillance committee is completely independent of her jobs and the president intends to do less than simply put a stone in the way that she works on this case as well as others as she chooses to do and best.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u21	Mr. President. I thank you for those words and for this urgency. President to emphasize the independence of the administration and monitoring committee. It's important that this come from the council president, who is less than a man with no influence, much the other. I also love to hear from the highest. President that specific discussions can be arranged as soon as possible. I might also have wanted the highest attitude. A president to see if he thinks it is proper for ministers to be able to ask with special discussion until reports have arrived. Then we're on the wrong track, then we're wrong, so I think the council and the senators must have a chance to talk to a minister about policy in a number of important matters, of liberalness like freedom in a cab market or whatever it is at any given time. Therefore, I believe it is important that, regardless of any report, members of the Parliament have the opportunity to have a word with a minister, whether in special discussions or in other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u22	The president does not intend to comment on an isolated case, but he would like to say, in general, that there is an agreement and a time that is convenient for both parties when verbal and ministerial servants are in special discussions. The Senate and a meeting office help to deal with such problems and to see that this has worked out well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u23	Mr. President. This is about a change in fish - control law, No. 116/2006. The change is that the law will add a new provision temporarily, as follows: If the total power of cod is increased by the fishing year 2018/209, dr. 1.mg. 3. g., shall the minister stand for a bid on the top of the dolls. Further regulations on the implementation of the decree must be agreed by the minister in accordance with local regulations. That was 1st par. 2.g. this is how: This law will already come into force. It is very important, Mr. President, that this bill is going through the council quickly and well, so we can apply it to the distribution of fish for the year 2018/20. The bill of the same material, with little change from the current Council of 145th, as well as the 146th legislature. The proposed legislation is based on the preferential design of the market's operating of fish resources. In the implementation of the mission, rules that take into account localities, prevent compression, and respect the specification of my development should be set. The use of tenders and markets is most direct when a certain species of fish is introduced or added as proposed by the Institute of Marine Research. The cost of fishing is unlikely to be reached until it is established on market grounds. One of the advantages of an offer is that rent fees paid for reimbursement will automatically swing by commercial fishing and reduce the likelihood of political intervention for rent prices. Thus, the amount of rent is not based on ecstatic decisions and the owners of the resource, the people of the country, can be sure that one is not being lenient above another. The budget itself determines the cost of access to the resource by means of market oers, and it also prevents braking with quathane. Also, because political whims do not control the demand for future changes from one term to the next, the offer is sustained for long - term environment. There will be more distances within the system with available markets and innovations that will provide the most advanced opportunities for the drivers whether they are old or new. In the implementation of an offer, it is easy to take into account localities, prevent compression, and respect my specific eutrophication. Experience from an offer of distribution of resources around the world is widespread, and it is easy to look to neighboring nations, such as the Faeroes and the Norwegians, for good examples. If the right course is to correct the offer of injustice, which means that the benefits of economic management within the fishing field fall into the pockets of few people living in the sea. Fish markets in Iceland are good models for marketing solutions. It purchases fish without eating on a daily basis at a market. This enterprise has no other business insurance but that tomorrow's bid market will be active. The market price is never debated. The buyer and the seller have agreed on prices. All of the land's fish industry has equal access to fish markets. Thus, innovation in fish farming is much easier than in the fishing industry. There are other good examples. Climate clearances are available, and Icelandic airlines, aluminiums, and other factories make bids for European markets and income run into government funds. Telecommunications are used to select between telephone companies when the reporting areas for telecommunications need to be implemented and when the government assigns private transport tasks, special requirements are made. When people buy a roof over their heads, an offer is made at a market controlled by real estate dealers. Thus, there is good and broad experience with the opportunities in various forms, and it is very relevant when contributing to limited quality, such as natural resources. Now, those assigned to eat dinner can put a full catch fee in their own pockets by selling and renting a salad to a third party. For example, last year's 170 cents had to be paid for large donations. for a kilo of cod, while the government collects only less than 23 cents. ... ina fishing fee based on information from Fish Labs. The results of the Marine Research Agency from the establishment of bottom fish in Iceland in 2017 and the results and suggestions on the catchmarks for the next fishing year or prior to the current fishing year were presented on June 13 of this year. That, in fact, is what the Bible In 2014 and 2015, which attend 2018 and 2018, there are long - term averages, so the reference population can be expected to grow anything from its present level. The results of analysis are an important part of the annual assessment by the National Institute of Marine Research. The measurements in March 2016 indicated a positive effect on the quality of key bottom species and prospects for increased recruitment in fish stocks and exaggeration during the coming fishing years. The situation is that during the fishing year 2007/2008, 130 of them were codfished. a ton. However, for the fishing year 2017/018, ten years later, codvot is 258 you. a ton. It has doubled over a period of ten years. The additional supply has been taken and placed on a silver plate and handed to the existing surfaces. Thus, the opinion of the person here and according to the cohesion policy of changing the whole fishing system must be taken, but this step can be taken immediately in the right direction. During the last year of fishing, the codfish was increased. a ton. in the last year of fishing about 5 of you. ton and on the current fishing year about 14 o'clock. a ton. Thus, during three fishing years, the codfish has increased by 40 pulse. a ton. The World Health Organization's assessment suggests that in the coming fishing years, the dinner will still be increased. If a Marine Research Institute proposes an additional cod before the 2018/219 fishing season, the adjustment in the law will allow the increase. The rules for the decrees, which take into account localities, prevent compression and respect the specification of my outputs, will be set up by Regulation. Thus, there is experience in carrying out such projects with the market price of markets. The network members of the bill are together with the members of the Group of the United States and the entire Congress party of Pirata. President. Once we have discussed these ideas and have taken them here at the General Assembly and spoken to them in the community, there's gonna be a lot of numbers. Among the things mentioned are that if the eating is impaired, the greeting will be severed, and therefore it is justified that when an additional supplement arrives, those already on the surface will receive the additional. I don't agree with this. When the eater system was put on and later reduced, all were affected. However, those who were in the full range experienced a relative decrease, while those who planned to start exile had a 100% reduction, since they were kept out and out of the country. They were young sailors and future producers who took a 100% reduced effort to build up the fish stocks. This is important to keep in mind when speaking of rights in this article. Until then, this article had been renewed with new candidates, all changed with the gift - communicative system. Then, at best, tenants were killed. This has to change. Hunting clearance is a step in the direction of recovering this game. What is being made up for in this bill is taking the small step that the addition is out, the addition is not being taken from anyone. Those who believe that the resource has become private may conclude that certain individuals or families should have this increase above others. Therefore I protest and suggest that the general council defend the interests of the common people by offering out the extra box instead of bringing it to those who are already on the surface for a sledgehammer. Another criticism of the ideas of emigrants is that there will be more convergence in this article, this will encourage compression. The system we live in has led to a great compression, but we are protected by law that the compression will become a great collection on one hand, so to speak, because it is a law in the current law of maximal quotas for each structure. The third most commonly spoken of when the idea of tenders per capita is criticized, it is that only foreigners will come and take everything and sail away with their labor. How easy it is to answer that criticism, for 4. the law on the investment of foreign workers in employment makes it very difficult for foreigners of all kinds to live in the United States. Mr. President. I hope this bill is given a clear route through the labour board, since it is important that the bill be agreed so that an additional supply of fish can be offered, which is supposed to be quite large in the coming fishing years. Now, let's get in the sand and stop giving away the resource. Here we are elected to the council to defend the interests of the common people. We do not do this by continuing to give away the resource for the Slice. As long as it makes the roads crumbling away from us. We complain that our health system is not getting enough money and that there are not enough money to maintain good well - being and strong, powerful school systems. We're a rich nation, but it's like that if we just look at the history of countries that continue with resources, then there's also a danger of major corruption. The danger of corruption is high. There the danger is that people who are guarding a number of projects, about a few families in the country, will be able to care for their interests while the common people suffer from various forms of deficiency. I'd like to encourage you. The senators sitting here in the hall agreeing well with this bill, paying their way through the council so we can publish at least the additional box that comes in cod next year of fishing and the next fishing year. We've already moved less than 130 YOUs. to the one on the surface in the last ten years. Let's stop now. That's enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u24	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for reviewing this bill. Although the government's stand agrees that the government is not in winter, there are a number of issues that we disagree on when it comes to specific matters. I've got a lot of warning on this case. What I want to ask you is why. A member of the Parliament is aware that in the bill it says that a minister in a Regulation will set up more detailed rules on the implementation of the invitation. Do transporters have any idea of how the campaign could be carried out? It also states in the bill that in the implementation of adducts, both invitations and offers are very easy to consider based reasons, prevent compression, and respect the unique status of my projections. However, there is no attempt to explain it further or to support what is meant by it. Hence, it is reasonable to call upon how this should ensure based thinking or to take into account the basis, to prevent compression, and so on. As far as I know, in the Faeroe Islands referred to in the bill, the first invitation at least gave evidence of a strong tendency to compression. We also know that those who have money are stronger than they are. It would be interesting to hear from the representatives of the bill how they intend to ensure that such a thing does not happen. Then, it is spoken of as a good example for Norwegians. I just want to know. What have the Norwegian been doing about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u25	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the question. We transporters of this bill do not implement the rules. Rather, we say that there are rules to be made for the ministry's tender tenders before they begin. Of course, it is common to do so. But we've been in touch with experts on this, including The U.S. who actually sent a review when we were talking about the mackerel bill at the time. Then, both an American expert on exports and a Norwegian expert sent posts to assist the Faeroeists in their day, in a review, that they were well informed that all the political goals we would like to achieve can be reached by the rules we put on the auction. We're not experts at tenders, the senators at the bill. But we say that such views should be considered in order to make rules. Yes, it is. When the Faeroeties made their first attempt with an invitation, they concluded that it was a large fishing business that received the quatane. However, there were smaller and new preparations. At the same time, they were allowed to join the game, even though the result was that. When we take the additional resources and distribute them to those who have a greeting, the biggest items will also go to the biggest. That's the way it is. We've been doing it here to place the extra resources in the largest part of the population. However, it is not more dangerous than that. When I talk about Norse, I refer to the way they do e.g. with their oil resource. [[The president calls.]] There's an invitation. And the same with the power resources. That is the model of the invitations we should look to the Norwegians with. [[The president calls.]] Norwegians, unlike us, treat their resources well.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u26	V.E.G. President. First of all, I disagree with a senator that the Icelanders treat their resources badly. I don't think the Icelanders have any problems with their resources. I also disagree with what happened in the senator's talk that something is being given. Those using the resource, however, do not have access to the fish in the sea. I want this to be clear. There had to be something other than fish when it comes to Norwegians. It's a little off in the bill, you could read it like they're offering fish clearances that I don't remember to do. It's okay to correct me if that's the way it is. I don't quite remember the number given to the reservations in Iceland. He is properly assigned in proportion. However, this way of life, as I know it, may well have been that something has happened since it took place in the Faeroe Islands, but it is just not good. There, the largest preparations were offered and received. It is true that little people showed interest in this, but they did not receive anything because they could not offer what the big men could offer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u27	Mr. President. For the experience of the deliveries of the Telepaths, the experiments they've done, they're changing the system this year, so on their websites they're taking everything together in 2018 and making changes. Although they have not been able to go as far as the idea was at first, there is also an invitation. In terms of which money was running into the Faeroe Islands fund, there is no other way to say that the auction has been extremely successful. It is on conditions that continue to be an outing route in the Faeroe Islands because it yields well and provides sound guidelines for the value of the resource. There are no politicians standing there, just putting their finger in the air and saying, "Let's make it 23 bucks." or 13, like we're playing something here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u28	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for the performance of this bill. And there's a lot of interesting about it. I view this bill primarily as the first step or attempt to crush away from the cry code that has been on the people for the past thirty years and some years, and I find it hard to think about it, I've been working in this article for a long time. When the eating system was in its time, much of the landscape was altered by those who were in the fishing business and in the years leading up to that, and the decades in Iceland had been more and less involved in the public with the related gang folds and problems. Also, we did not measure stock size as we do today, and we can say that the fishing management is sustainable in the sense that scientists say goodbye to stock size, and so the cry system is self-sustained because it is combined as it is. To say that there was a sense of compression in this article is correct. But I have this theory, and I insist that the compression in this article is that most of the negative talk about how bad it is. I believe there is room for the big and small in the fishing system as it is today. I speak there of experience as a little developer. But I would like to ask the senator one question about the auction route: Is the senator not concerned that it is the very ones who have the money to find out only about these auctions, not those who are broke? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. By offering out the labor warrants, everyone is invited in. Now it's a closed system. Now this is so that it is only those who have received a greeting that is able to say goodbye. And they do. Now the weight of cod, or last autumn, is going to 170 k. in the export market, which the state does not take care of. It does not run in the nation's pockets but goes to the builders who have been given their quotas and have their markets and have their 170 bucks. for a pound of cod, while the price for fishing is 22.98. Right away. A senator speaks of the system as a self-sustaining protest, so I strongly protest. What's the definition of sustainability? The environment needs to be clear, and yes, it's okay. By putting the saying system on the air, we take the lead in the fishing business, and we benefit now. Economically? Yes, with the exposé, for example. Set up an economic side. But the community side isn't working. It is not all right while communities are not able to earn the full price of the resource, while the people of the country do not feel that this quality is being properly distributed. That's when the social part is off. The system is thus self-sustained.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u30	V.E.G. President. I simply disagree with the senator in saying that the system is unfair. And talking about the distribution and what you often hear, a donor parvota: when the system was installed at the time, it was based on the experience of the so-called developers. All these warrants have been changed ever since. There's not been a donation today. There's been an investor in this. There are ways to go out just if we could see it in a positive and open way. There are a lot of young men who would want to make out and invest in the article if there wasn't so much negative about the greeting system. I'd like to ask you one question at the end. Everyone wants to share in the fishing expenses. [[The president calls.]] Don't we have to go to a resource analysis on what is a resource and what isn't a resource in our beautiful country? [[The president calls.]] And like the seaside resources, do they pay for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u31	Mr. President. Yes, I can say that. We need resource policy. We're not supposed to give away our resources for gossip, I say, because of course, fishing costs are low. If you look at the rent price that the kilos pass from one to the other, you can see. Then there's the fishing fee that goes into the state fund laughs. We've been working the same way with our energy. We've given the power to a major company there. And we have a travel service at tax rate. I agree that we need to take our resource policy through and how we enjoy our quality. But it's not. A senator just agreed that we should take out and ask him out? If we're always giving away the available resources, we're giving the resource away from us. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we're supposed to say, "Here we have a few thousand tons, what are you offering? ' And then assigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u32	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A traveler's case, Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, for the bill. This is a very pleasant approach to how we can begin to solve problems that very many people of the country experience as unfair when it comes to who will be allowed to use and what they will have to pay for the common resource of the people of the country. I'm going to discuss what the senator spoke about in answer. This I learned when we were on negotiations over a year ago about how to start the process of saying goodbye as our category and our organization, the restoration and the future all agreed on, and the left greens agree on, in part, because they are ready to go up to 1/3 to be offered on the market, and we were on our way. But this is a approach I hadn't heard. For three aspects of sustainability, the system is put on because of real needs. It's too much to hunt. There is a limit to ensuring the sustainable fishing of the resource itself, which is clearly something done, but how it was done and assigned for three years of fishing experience is highly critical. Then it is the expedient that ensures specific economic efficiency in the system, but if we do not have the social factor, the social one, stability cannot be guaranteed. That's what fishermen say, they don't exactly know what the system looks like. Politicals could change that, so they've complained about it. This stability has been complained. Why can't he get caught? Stability cannot be achieved if much of the country feels that the system is unfair, then it is not political stability. There'll always be bitter bones. This was one way to begin going in the direction of a greeting in a manner that would allow the highest bidder to do so. Regarding being reasonable when it comes to small boats and settlements, it is clearly slow at the auction, but the senator came in on it. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to gather what I had learned and why I am pleased with the bill and give the members of Congress a chance to respond. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. When we discussed the additional resources at last assembly, there were many members of the board who said that we should not do anything about the case, and in fact, they also heard voices at the government stand, while the committee was working to try to control the whole system. I disagree that you must not do anything while the committee is working or while trying to think of a system change. There is, of course, nothing being done right now, and it is not on the government policy list. We've had other committees and nothing's come out of them. I'd like to say, "Let's get a line in the sand." We can just talk about the distribution of existing quotas and all that and continue to have all kinds of names about it. But do not continue to assign additional resources as if they were nothing. Let's stop there. We're not taking anything from anyone. We're just saying that here's an extension we're getting because we've taken care of the resource and it's growing more than we anticipated. We'll take it out. As I said, the increase has been 40 yous. a ton in the last three years. It's about 40 of you. a ton. I imagine they'll be 20 of you. in the next year of fishing. We should give everyone an opportunity to offer. We'll also find out what the resource is worth. [[The president calls.]] What are developers willing to pay for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u34	Mr. President. To underscore that fact, the system seems unfair and stability is missing, even creationists have said that there is not enough stability, enough vision in the system as it is. In fact, when the mackerel entered the jurisdiction, and it was to be assigned on some basis, it wanted to be replaced by six years to resign, first to ten years or something, at least one year at all, but it always takes six years to resign. This could be done in such a way that if even a person was bought on a yearly basis or paid a little of the government for a certain amount of time, six years, as was said in this case or longer. This could give you more insight and stability, which is not present in the system now. See what? A senator did not realize that such a structure could be established, which is not present in the system as it is today?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u35	Mr. President. Yes, I can see that this was a better system and the debate and that the conflict that has been around the system would be silenced by the nation's owner, the resource, and those who use it had already agreed on price. It's not politicians who decide what to weigh in hunting fees. It's a corrupt trap, that's obvious. I've been the first member of the Parliament to come up with a eulogy proposal that goes on how we're supposed to split the bounty and that the largest part should go to the countryside so that they can build up a job opportunity, get ready to leave tonight, etc. I think I'll also help create the social reconciliation, if it's visible how it's spread throughout the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u36	Mr. President. Now that this is a good bill to be measured, I'm with a importer. True, I wasn't an importer at all, but I supported it then and still supports it because it's a very good bill. The support is partly based on Pirata's policy. Pirata's marine policy says, with permission of presidents: ▪ The nation's government, on behalf of the nation, is expected to offer markets to rent to open markets and pay rents into the state's budget. Let's all the results give public information. This refers to a particular truth that appears to have been in the courts in the past: That people have bought rights to these resources has no right to do. This is literally indicated in 1st pars. A fish - control law that this is the nation's eternal property, it is not something that can really be bought. If someone told me that I could buy something, that would be some exorbitant dish, but I wouldn't have the part, I wouldn't be very excited about that business, with all due respect for those who have done it. The core of this proposal is a bit complex. First, this is a moderate suggestion. It is only talking about taking into the auction systems of services that are relevant to existing sources. As shown in the good history of a dog. Harðardóttir It's about 40 up to you. tons of codfish that have been added in recent years In no uncertain terms, I consider this to be the value of 9.5 billion, plus/minus some hundred million. As a result, part of the state has probably been about 80 billion. K. By this dollar number, 21 k. per kilogram. It's a year-old natural. This large increase has yielded considerable amounts to those who have been distributed on the basis of the system as it is. This moderate suggestion to try to examine other ways is only reasonable. You see, it creates an equal position for all. This creates a position for all to be invited to. I always find it rather strange that such bill comes from socialism groups, and its main opponents are so - called market groups; the marketists themselves do not want to go the market; they trust that normal business will lead to a natural conclusion. That is exactly what the convention is going to do when it comes to talking about a great lack of knowledge; people do not know how these things are going to work. Despite the thousands of years or as good as thousands of years, an auction system somehow is a mystery to people. Of course, the details here are important. No one I've heard to speak for this is talking about just inviting the highest bidder to take the whole pot. Of course, this does not contribute to fairness or equal access. We must look forward to literally tens of different types of auction systems that are well - known, whether they are British auctions, Dutch auctions, invitations for average prices, etc. Above all, there are thousands of export methods on each of our individual species. This is explained by the fact that people have been thinking about how an auction can go on for a long time. Of course, we may need a little time to build up knowledge before breaking the whole system into this form, but this suggestion allows us to build up this experience, find out the most appropriate method, which way we can use to make it possible for all to have reasonable and just access to it. Yes, this experience is built up. It's really set up, isn't it? Let us build it up, with the very objective of making peace. The peace that is often expressed about the lack of water in the fishing field is not available today. She's never existed to me. It will never exist while it is just continuing to do the same. The disagreement is not because there are some who are unhappy that there are discrepancies in the system now, that is, because it's insured that the discrepancies will continue into the infinite. Going on such a market route, as many groups have spoken, is creating the possibility of making some kind of real reconciliation for the future. For example, I will be thinking about the world's business history when international flight across the Atlantic Ocean was beginning to increase. In the United States at the time, there were quite a number of airlines, two prominently proud, who were all interested in flying across the Atlantic Ocean. The largest of them were Pan Am and TWA who wanted to do this market. Then comes the U.S. Congress, saying: "No, a flight across the Atlantic Ocean is by nature only one airline can handle it. Of course, that airline has to be the biggest thing on the market. There were rules that limited access to all other airlines to participate in these transports. This was really what made the trip for TWA and eventually went bankrupt, along with a lot of other airlines at the time. Obviously, if you were to dive into it, that decision was not completely random. It is because the stakeholders, the most important to Pan Am, wanted the rules to be that way for them to run the market just the way they were suitable. The discussion is this way in Iceland, and it's been a long time. It is being created, and there is a regular work in Iceland around a fishing government that contributes to the integration of markets. This contracture is achieving some kind of balance or might be doing it until things change. But is this necessarily the most just balance in society? There are a lot of very nice, very sexy companies who are doing the fishing road in Iceland just fine. We know these companies. They're doing a hell of a job. However, there are companies who could do bigger things and compete with the largest companies in this article if the situation is normal. To cross into an auction system is the way to create a constant playground where everyone really can compete in the market and create as much money as possible for Iceland. It's just that way. Free markets eventually win. They are better than a controlled market, which is controlled by political appetites. Finally, I want to make a distinction between one important thing that I feel is very often complicated when we discuss these things at the General Assembly and in the community. It's sustainable. We have to distinguish between the control of resources, i.e. access to the available resources that we do by providing suggestions and based on scientific research. That system is amazingly good. However, it is control over who benefits from the resources, which are quite different. I don't have an example of people protesting how we run the resources, but it's not cool in Iceland about how we run access to the resources, i.e. Who can benefit from them? By taking this small step, taking up an auction system on this small amount that is added each year, using the opportunity to create a more reasonable system, to build up knowledge and experience, to learn how to do this, we also go on the right way to make peace with who can use the resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u37	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion in particular, just going to reiterate what I said in answer to what I said. A senator, the first apostle of this matter, is, in effect, making certain claims. There are some experiments that are not known to me in any way, or given instructions on implementation, let alone trying to provide some compelling evidence that this is better than what we have today. There are, of course, some stories that we often hear about large structures and stuff like that. But the most important thing, I feel, is that there is no attempt to argue that this route has some positive effect on the settlements of the country. The bill shows up, forgives, what's the point. A carrier, that it is likely only Faeroes that have set out with an auction system in fishing or with a resource like this. Here's a tip to the Norwegians. It's about the oil. I simply wondered if there are little oil slippers in Norway. I just don't know. Isn't it a whole other environment and a whole other world that's going on there? I feel, like I've said before, and I even said. While I was the minister of the seaside, that if you're going to take the route you're going to get, or give them the idea, at least you're supposed to show responsibility and wait and see how they're working. The resource is not leaving us. It works as it is today. You can have a view of whether it is righteous and all that, but it works well. I find it quite a responsibility to get going and plan to pick up something that has not really come up with, they haven't seen them dives and hills that can fit into this from our beautiful neighbors in the Faeroe Islands. The system today is not flawless. We know that. That, however, is fine in many respects. This has given us a measure of stability. The biggest unstableness has come from us politicians. It's doing fine in the article, making a difference. It has become a compression, and it is not necessarily for the benefit. But I think a bill this would speed up and increase compression. We know, at least we're talking to the people in the field - a little strange to tell the people in the field when we're talking about a fishing road - but the people working in this trade are concerned. Men with small and medium-sized designs are thinking about stopping, selling, because political instability is so high. A respectable president. I'm assuming that the bill is being treated well in a professional committee and then again for discussion at the council. I'm just looking forward to watching how it's going to develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u38	Mr. President. Hv. A senator criticizes that in the bill there are not published regulations and explanations that the extent of the invitation should be made to an integrated quota. All political goals can be achieved by the rules for tenders, just as we set rules for all kinds of tenders. That's the way it is. We're offering out search warrants for oil, for example. We set down rules for tenders. However, while we who carry this bill have not detailed how we are going to set out rules for the invitation, I feel safe before now. A senator to approve the bill. We don't know how many more thousands of tons will be put in the next year of fishing. But according to all measurements, it can be assumed to be several thousand and perhaps twenty thousand or more. When we know that, we sit down and set rules for the invitation. I can tell you that I'm excited to see how the invitation will go if the Faeroeties offer out the codfish in Iceland. It would be a good guide for us here on the land to see what the resource really is worth. What are the Faeroe Forces, the Faeroe Islands, ready to bid for cod tea in Iceland? It'll be interesting for us. Of course, we will look to the Faeroes to learn from them. [[The president calls.]] They also have rules for their commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u39	V.E.G. President. Of course, if the Faeroe System was so intense, it would have been one game for the operators of the bill to offer it simply. However, since there is no experience with it, we don't know how it works, I guess the operators of the bill have failed to rely on them to suggest the route of the Entires. That's why I say again and again that the bill is completely untimely. It's premature to do some experimenting in Iceland with something that's been experimenting with other places. Let's see how it works, how it works. If this is amazing, if it gives more distribution on the labour markets, ensures the Faeroe Islands, or that the state gets a price for using the resource, if this guarantees all the big interests involved, we'll just take a look at it, of course we'll take a look at it. But there is no experience. We're not supposed to go on the same experiment project as anybody else, I think. I think it's either some popular bill or I don't think it's over. But I'd also like to say that what's really worst for today's industry is that we're always having endless discussions about this system and that those in it are like that, men making and making money. This is very taxing for those who work in the article, whether one or two men with a Trilla or a large company with dozens of people working for a job. The size in there doesn't matter. It's bad for anyone in some business to live with uncertainty, blundering, and so forth. That's why it creates an approved escape in the article. Among other things, not just, but, among other things. It requires a measure of peace, so that we can continue to see what we have seen in the past one, two, three, four years, investments, and enormous innovations. I don't think there's any job in Iceland, I'm gonna let myself claim it, then all it has to do is throw it in my head, which is just as much of a novelty as the sea road. If I'm wrong, you'll bring it.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u40	Mr. President. The idea of sending out a warrant is to try to create some reconciliation around the system. It's not cool with the system the way it is. It won't be so long as we keep on doing this. The newly acquired government now intends to reduce the price of hunting. She's been preaching it. We who bring this bill say, "Let's stop giving the quatane." Let's not take off what we already have, but let's just draw a line here in the sand and find the market price for the additional box. What's dangerous about it? Why does it want to be? A senator still has time to distribute the valuables of the country to others who are already valuable in this article? What is it? What's the real deal? A senator's recommendation? We who bring this bill are not talking about cutting up the whole system. That's why we're not setting the way of the Enteys either. We're just talking about stopping giving away extra parvots for a snack. And protect the interests of the public, not the making of the country, in terms of these tons.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u41	A respectable president. That is exactly what this wording is all about, making the fishing road grow. Spreading the value of the public for gossip? Of course, Mr. President, it is not acceptable that members of Congress speak in this way. We're talking about one of the nation's major sectors that put tens of billions of new creations, taxpayers, to us, in the welfare system. Then people come here and talk, like a cot. A senator, as if there were nothing coming from the fishing road. [[Up front.]] I want to protect the interests of the Icelanders. I want to be careful, for example. The interests of the dozens or hundreds of people and companies in the Southwestern district and in the fishing field; they produce fish farms, they produce knives, or God may know what is the result of our good profession. If we had a job that didn't work out well, we wouldn't have any of it. We have to figure that out. The reason Iceland is one of the tops of the fishing grounds today is that the industry has cooperated with the pioneers in this process. That's because she could have done it. If we keep trying to cut and make things hard for men, it's not good. It would have been one game for the operators of the bill to suggest an inexpensive route regarding this addition. I'm not gonna ask a senator, she can't come up with an answer, but I'm wondering why it's not done. On the other hand, a bill, which is a declaration of some kind, likely, of the movers, is presented on the basis of the fact that it is, and so tailored, without any evidence of it. There are only headlines, some headlines in the main language of the bill, without even trying to give some real reference. Icelandic fishing route is not entirely perfect. But he's a great professional. In it, thousands of people provide us with members of the Parliament and the entire nation with enormous value.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u42	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the changing of fish control laws, with subsequent changes. I think there is a suggestion to be considered because such a suggestion is not to form a discussion within a parapolitic committee that was arranged last year with the hope that we would achieve the necessary agreement on the contribution for the access to a limited resource that is definitely owned by the nation. As we examine the history and structure of the Icelandic fishing system, various things have been done. Politicians are often blamed for decisions related to the fishing system, the way they look at the subject of the fishing system. But I would like to thank all classes, all across the line from right to left or whatever people would like to say, for making important decisions and difficult political decisions, difficult decisions to make in order to form members of the Western District at the time. It was hard for them to go home in the district and say, "It's been here already. In 1984 that difficult decision was made after a relatively long turn of action, overfishing, and so forth. There were also figures in which people saw the need to do something. Then the politicians took responsibility in cooperation with stakeholders. Again, around 1990 a decision was made to make regarding the free supply, yet, in many cases, debated. I believe that it was the right thing to do, for it encouraged practicality, value creation, and further production in this article. It is still controversial, but that choice made a left control while the right control made the important choice, so to speak. The political picture has come to build the seabed as it is today. That is not to say that the classes stopped criticizing. Men are here offering suggestions to try to get what is most important to me because I want to stress that, overall, I think the Icelandic seabed is well built up. Of course, the process of evolution can be criticized. The 2nd paragraph 1 is not always taken into account. The fishing laws that make decisions related to the system need to be taken into account based and professional aspects. You can be critical. But this has also led to the needed economics we needed, since the fishing route was more and less on the head, big business as small as a small one, and the operating economy was small. We were developing into a system that, in many respects, is a role model. We now see one of the strongest cod stocks in the last 40 years; it has not been stronger for 40 years because we make wise decisions regarding scientific advice and practical fishing and processing. I can also say that one of the factors that are very positive in the construction of the fishing system and the fishing system is responsible for building more environmental protection. We see the ecoves of the ocean in Icelandic jurisdiction always getting better and better with each passing year. Today, there is a significant difference between seafood and e.g. in 2002. So there are a lot of positive things that come out of this. We certainly see the number of jobs in fishing and processing, but in other places, in the entire seabed's worth chain, the number of jobs is actually increasing. We see innovations and wands springing up, a variety of market companies linked to the seabed, etc. It may be said that the fishing route is the article that takes a significant step during the fourth industrial revolution that many people talk about. We're going to a fishing business, the cryo-houses in the country, including... By UA on the north, where you are taking in the remarkable composure of man - controlled elevators, people setting up container, shelfs, ordering down, etc. That's the good side, and there's something we can draw out for the Icelandic seabed, apart from the fact that, because I've been present in a foreign position as a minister, both educational and scientific, but also as a seafaring minister, I'm very curious about how we do it. We have much to say and much to say, to Icelanders, although history to this day has not been fought and determined by certain difficult steps. I like the process and the steps we have taken in Icelandic fishing. But it remains what this bill reminds us that we will be at peace with a fair, fair price for the access to the limited resource of the country, showing by action on Article 1. The fishing laws have some meaning for all categories. I saw evidence of this, and I was sometimes called the Polos last year, that all classes realized the responsibility when they were called to write and advise in order to discuss how we were going to achieve this reconciliation, the factors that are going to make a political decision. They criticized some people, including some. The independent party that he could not get most of the delegates because he was now the greatest. I watched it so that it would be important, however large or small, that everyone had just one voice at the table and would agree on a certain conclusion. It just evolved. It was clear that all classes, except for one, the Independence Party, came to the conclusion that it was worth considering a temporary agreement. What does it mean to want to consider temporary negotiations? That means, and is fundamental, that it is recognized that the resource in the ocean around Iceland is shared in the country. (a) What is the significance of the word "future "? (b) What is the meaning of the Greek word translated "future "? That is why this is a deal. Sadly, though, the committee did not complete. Then we are faced with this: What will we do? That is why I say, " Although I don't agree with this bill in everything, it's part of continuing with this discussion because we in politics cannot give up. ' I sometimes feel a little tired when I hear my good friends on the fishing road say, "Hey, it's just the politics that's responsible for not talking about the water. " - Not at all. As I pointed out at the outset, it is just the politics that has made wise decisions that have supported the seas, supported what we are doing in this fine business. But the politics will have to go on and finish the job. The task is not finished. I've missed the fact that a very powerful group of contractors will not enter that path and say, "Okay, now let's sit down. It is clear not to take any phrase that we had so often regarding the definition of property, which was precisely defined as the national rights and which were not. Is it indirect or direct, etc.? It is clear what it's like in my mind, and I'm also a lawyer, after observing how it's done and how it's turning. During the constitution work we are about to do now, we need to immediately complete the resource directive into the constitution. It's a key one, too, to complete the fishing picture. But I miss that these workers - because 90% of the men and women associated with the fishing industry are totally aware that these work will not go on in the long run unless they are at peace with the nation. All of us have every reason to be proud of Icelandic fishing. The people of the United States, the politicians, and the people inside the story. That is why I advertise the prospective candidates we have had in the article in order to step forward and say, "Come, my dear friends, let's finish this. Press maximum pressure. Government not only to go to that job now when it comes to reevaluating the cost of hunting, approaching a review of fishing fees. There's only one thing coming from the government, it's a drop in hunting fees. Okay, then let's talk. But it's only government approach. With her approach, it is not an attempt to settle matters, to make peace, to stress that the nation of the land is at sea. I advertised that the government does something decent in these matters, continue to make it known that it has an ambition to accept the access to the resource. But some say it's best just not to do anything. That's why the government is set up as it is today. I don't want it to be like that. That's why I say, we need to proceed, we need to discuss market solutions in the fishing road. In an effort to find the real price for the kilogram, I and I have been able to discuss marketing solutions, in part, an auction. What's the market ready to pay? I don't worry that money-rich people will come and buy out the market. They are already complaining about the arrangement as it is. Why, then, should they enter the auction and blow up all the scale? I've always been that way, so I trust the market, I trust the companies whether they're big or small, paying the right price, what the market itself can pay. Will it bite on the settlements of the country? I don't think so. I don't think that's gonna happen. If there's any evidence that there's going to be more than the trend in the past then we're supposed to take part in the mobilization of the habitats. Whether we agree with the settlements or not, we have a system. The more specific localised area is doing well, but a specific buildup is required in the general population. There is a recommendation in the Ministry, which we will follow in Reunion, to bring the decision force to the rural areas, that they must decide how they will contribute to the needs of the rural community. If they want to make a deal, they will. If they want to make a deal with a company, they'll do it. And if they want to rent out their munitions to other rural communities, which they receive to 10 years of age, because 10 years is a presupervision for their communities, why don't we give them self - control? I can see it coming well in the West, Sussavík, Isfjordur, Bolungarvík, for I have, e.g. They were told at Susavík that they'd rather go building up the tourism service. Therefore, we have also said: Whether through the regional aquatan or the resource cost, the resources in the marine soil, whether through marketing solutions or through negotiations, have become part of the infrastructure building, especially in the country. It must be connected to the country to make it fair. I think the people are supposed to come along on that journey. Do we want to go to Reunion? Do we want to go to the market? Yes, we've already spoken about it within the reconciliation committee, but we realize that, just as I hope that other groups and advocates of stakeholders realize that we all have to meet halfway. In an effort to reach an agreement that all of us long for the water to continue building, all of us need to meet somewhere. I'm in a number of ways into what is presented here, which is related to market solutions and auctiones, but I don't like what has to do with extra-canal or extra-canned clovers, since, as the system is built up, it's hard to take away and settle. When we cut the codhole down to 130. In 2007, companies took on substantial reductions and received no compensation. But they did this with the assurance that when and if the supplement, as it is now taking place, they would enjoy the practical and decision - making work, which was very heavy in 2007. So I find it difficult to take that part, the extra, out of parentheses, and put it on market, even though I understand the thought. I think it needs to be held up, especially the marketing route. So I think we're taking the impulse to do better with the present system, and then I'm speaking out of the current system. While we have no market or auction system, it will be difficult to remove the catalyst that the supplements will not go to those already in the process. The price must be fair. There's a fight to be fought. The government needs to be kept in touch. It gives you wealth and kind of worse than that, it just returns some jokes. [[The president calls.]] It yields nothing to benefit the whole nation, and it gives no indication that they will have the ambition we call out to join even more about an article that we do not just love but that we need to keep building up as they have been over the years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this inspired speech, Kartrina the daughter of Gunnar was the Katrín of her Gunnarsdóttir. In effect, she answered what I was going to ask her at the end of her talk, saying that she did not agree with the bill that is being discussed, but nevertheless. In those few minutes and how this happened, the senator handled the fishing system and its history. I agree with her about that. I'd like to ask the senator: "It was a fair resource fee. The current resource cost, as calculated today, is calculated from the results of the outputs. In fact, as I entered a speech today during the council work, it is critical, and many people criticize how it is calculated, that it is calculated back two years. As it happens now, the project is having to pay for the fine supply of 2015 in 2018, where the last year was extremely difficult to care for. I ask: What's the fair resource charge when it's calculated from obtainors, real figures? Is it not so that they are real? How, then, can we achieve a more reasonable price?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u44	Mr. President. It is fundamental that hunting costs, resource costs, are not tax, but a price for access to the resource. This needs to be fair so that companies can continue investing but also that they can get a reasonable share in the resource. However, if we're talking about the system that is now, I can agree with it that the best way to demonstrate every price is to be as close to it as possible. Two years back in history has been critical. I also say, if there's any profession that knows the Icelandic crown, it's the fishing road. Of course, the companies are to assume in their accounts that after two years they have to pay for fishing fees. A great many construction companies have made sure that they do everything in euros, some of which have belts and bracelets. But not the smaller designs, that's what worries you; they need special attention. There is also the need to consider that 80% of the profits in the fishing road come from up-to-date companies, while 20% of the cost comes from there. That's the wrong one, the wrong one, and we need to take a special look at it. It doesn't change that I'm opposed to the way the government is going, i.e. trying to change the current system in some way by considering trying to lower the price of hunting. I strongly feel that on the part of the government it is using the small and medium-sized manufacturing companies, all of whom in this room surely have sympathy, and also the Icelandic people, to lower the fishing costs in general. I don't agree with that approach of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u45	V.E.G. President. I'm not sure if I've got the answer I wanted. But okay. Small, medium-sized makeup got into a dobble when it was put on 2012, it reminds me. Then it turned out that many of these projects were sailing into trouble, in bankruptcy even. This patch, called a discount, was applied to interest discounts, and some kind of step distinction, though very small. So there's a lot of difference between making a gratation with a few tons or a tugs with several thousand tons, I totally agree with that. Yet, I believe that there is room for all these sizes of deforestation inside the present system. Although it is not a perfect system, far from it. But I would like to ask the senator the same question that I asked the senator who brought the bill, because we agree that the resource price is a payment for access to the resource. I don't know anybody who doesn't want to pay the resources. But should we not go to the job of identifying what is a resource and what is not a resource? To the relevant persons working on the resources used, pay interest or provide resources from that resource?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u46	Mr. President. Of course, the resource expenditure is to be paid for national access or resource use, the nature of Iceland. If we're going to go into the fields to analyze and do everything, I'd like to point out a 2000-year resource expenditure, which requires resource expenditure on the Icelandic seaside but should also add resource costs to the use of other natural resources. What has happened during those 20 years, however, is that we have not achieved the reconciliation that is so important to us. I'm afraid this dramatic article, which the sea route is going to eventually suffer intolerance, if we don't reach reasonable conclusions for the article as well as for the general public. If I understood why. Then a senator spoke only about the discount that lasted five years because of the payment of an enterprise on a fishing road to a breakfast. It is proper to note that not nearly every business in a fishing field borrowed a fortune. There was a great protest on the part of members of the Independence Party and the forward party during the last term, which was very short, which made it necessary for me to see that this discount had to be extended. There was great pressure on them. I didn't think we should go on the way to extend the discount because it turns out that many very large factory companies got this discount, it wasn't just these small companies we had in mind. This is a smell because there will always be, as a good man has said, a tiny piece of dirt around it when we have not come to the conclusion of a fair price for the resource, a price that is transparent, and everyone understands. Everyone knows that it needs to be so that the fishing route can continue to work harder than the nation can get happier in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u47	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a change to public penalties, No. 19/1940. In short, the bill is about banning so - called digital sexual abuse. I'm going to start by reading the subject of the bill, with the permission of the president. We're looking for a 210 str. That's a new article from the law, 210 gr. c, as follows: Anyone who deliberately distributes an image or audio material that shows a naked or sexual behaviour of an individual without his consent should be in prison for up to 6 years. An act of great inadequacy involves fines or imprisonments up to 3 years. By bill this, the use of digital sexual abuse is banned and punishable by the practice of distributing imaging or audio elements that show a naked or sexual behavior of an individual without his consent to granting six years of imprisonment. In the recent decades and decades of technology, there has been a significant increase in the distribution of medias containing nuclei or sexual activities in the Internet, without any prior distribution, without the permission of persons in the material and even without their knowledge. Such a substance has sometimes been referred to as vendettas, such as venerating porn, or freckle porn. That wording, however, will not be regarded as an indication of the action it is intended to describe, including Because the action does not necessarily involve the intention of taking revenge or stumbling, as well as the fact that pornography is viewed as a big issue. Thus, the act is described as a digital sexual abuse. Those who fell under this penalty will now be treated according to other legal requirements. An example of the Supreme Court's judgment on matters that according to the bill would be defined as cases involving digital sexual abuse. This includes: Consider the Supreme Court's judgment on the issue of No. 242/2007 and No. 312/2015, however, the charges against the 209th grade were found guilty. a general penal law. This article discusses a violation of the person's shamelessness. The second case also filed a complaint against 233rd paragraph. (b) The article deals with insults or slights of a marriage mate, a former spouse, or a close family member. Clearly, this article may be considered in the code of law that now applies to such matters, although it has not been judged by them in this controversial judgment. If there is no link between parties, there is a possibility 234.g. the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of justice shall be done. On bait 234. gr. is a general rule that requires special appeal. With regard to these penalties, none of them must be put in the mind of resisting the use of digital sexual abuse. None of these differences directly apply to punishment because of digital sexual abuse and therefore includes the fact that they are punished, not for the real violence, but for the related act. This application to articles that originally have another purpose leads to more blurred and inexplicable penalties. In particular, according to 209. ........................... Evidently, this expression is out - of - date and extremely unfortunate as a valid penalty warrant for the use of digital sexual abuse. That's 233 stre. b, previously charged with the insult or slightness of a close person. While such behavior may involve the use of digital sexual abuse, it is not the way it should be used to weigh the greatest penalty but rather the use of violence itself. The same is true of 234. gr. The penalties involved in delinquency. A serious offense, such as digital sexual abuse, is required to obtain a penalty with the possibility of using a heavier law than it is found in pornography, shameful conduct, and delinquency. The current penal law does not contain direct penalties for the use of digital sexual abuse, despite what is listed above. It is suggested that new articles be added to the general penalties, par. 19/01910, 210. gr. c, making a criminal act of distributing image or audio material that shows a naked or sexual behavior of individuals without their consent. The change requires that the manner of handling such materials be distributed, but by distribution, an individual take action that helps others to get access, see, or receive a copy of the material. According to this article, it will be a requirement for the release of such materials. Thus, it must be punished by deliberate distribution of such material if the agreements of individuals mentioned in the material are not available. Acceptability refers to a clear consent indicated by an individual in an active way. Image or sound material refers to any kind of photographs, videos, recordings, or any form of media that might be possible for manufacture. It is suggested that a maximum punishment for such offenses be six years in the event of deliberate intent. Clearly, digital sexual abuse has serious consequences, and the use of it leads very seriously to the person and freedom of the victim. Yet, people may have in their possession carried out material that shows the nudity or sexual conduct of others, without the purpose of the material being distributed. It is important that the responsible object in the material itself, even with the approval of its members, be protected from distribution, and is therefore proposed to punish the distribution of the material of unscrupulous guilt or imprisonment up to three years. A respectable president. I have completed a brief review of the report, the main points of it that I wanted to make, of course, I encourage interested persons to read it whole. This situation has come about because we have now gone through a lot of technological advances. Not only do they have tremendous opportunities but they also pose enormous threats. Misuse of technology can seriously affect people's freedoms and democratic rights. Have Piratar and I had many talks about it and are for this reason, if that's true. One very important thing for all laws to deal with is that it is clear. It is not enough to be clear in the courts. Even if it's 209. a general penal law on shamelessness has been used and may not be used enough, since this does not necessarily involve any questions about shame or shame. It is about the privacy and sexual freedom of individuals, their right to decide for themselves how to conduct their own affairs. And sexual freedom must be one of the deepest rights we have or so you would think. It is also very important that legislation be carried out. It is not enough for the General to provide some message that the Council feels that using digital sexual violence is a bad move. That's not enough. That's why there's even As is the case with the hairs mentioned here, so is the application in particular so that these matters can be handled. There have been suggestions that are more focused on transmitting messages or somehow putting them in general penalties, but then I have been concerned that they are not enforceable, that they cannot be carried out in a practical way. It is one thing to enforce things on the Internet rather than to enforce those who go to the store or on the street. Since there are variations in these phenomena, we need to approach the subject differently from what we do if it happens on the street or at a store. This bill is written with respect to it, and I believe it is valid. I think the responsibility, the penalty frame high enough to describe the seriousness of the offense, as well as the fact that the police have the information they need to investigate these matters of a reasonable nature. There are also certain differences in nature in my opinion of these offenses and delinquency. This violation is about privacy and sexual freedom of individuals. At any rate, it's not so much about people of character, although it's also involved. Above all, it is very important that we be absolutely clear, lawgiver, and society, where the responsibility lies in these matters. A person who is subjected to digital sexual abuse is not responsible for it himself. No one. It is the very person who distributes the responsibility and in no way can be blamed for the victims of digital sexual abuse. We're never supposed to tell them they shouldn't have been photographed, shouldn't have had it done here or there. As with our daily routine of life, some general safety recommendations can be made. But there is always responsibility for the doer. The shame never lies with such a person, and it becomes emotionally abused. If there was only one message we would need to communicate from here, that would be a message. I hope that people who are subjected to digital sexual abuse, although I know that they must be treated with shame for social reasons, will be able to see that they are not to be ashamed. The person's supposed to be ashamed of himself. It is the doer who is guilty and the doer we are to pursue. It is suggested by this bill that as the above case, the police should have real authority to investigate these matters, not just by hitting on their fingers, but by taking them as very serious sexual offenses that and they certainly are.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for history and for discussing this serious but important subject. While we members of the Independence Party are not party to the bill, we do not say that we are against it or its purpose. What we are alert to see is whether we are really solving problems or are creating them. How far has this been accomplished? And what's the problem? The bill is quoted in the Court's Court of Justice. 312/2015 who is judged for such a violation. This bill, however, is certainly better than primes previously known as vendettas, for it was only one to two years of punishment. He's been up by now. If that bill had come to pass in our time, we might have been shrinking the border. But it's all been fixed here. But we have already been judged by the Supreme Court for the violations discussed in the bill. We have every reason to be certain. Despite the fragility of the film itself, it was judged for abuse. That's why I'm looking for what the real problem is that the bill is supposed to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u49	A respectable president. As I briefly studied in my speech, as shown in a report, there have certainly been judgments. There are already, in some cases, acceptable articles in the law. The problem is that the articles in the general law of justice were not intended to respond to such offenses. 209. gr. it is a case of shamelessness. If I read this article as a public citizen, I will not read from it that digital abuse is forbidden. I think of people who expose themselves in a public field or something like that, or are harassing people in some way. It is very important that people who are subjected to digital sexual abuse understand the laws. Despite 209, 233. b and 234. gr. victims of such wrongdoing have found it very difficult to get their way. My explanation for this is that the legal system simply does not know what to do with it. Our system doesn't know exactly. I hope it gets better over time, and I actually assume that as the Supreme Court falls, it will. But the city has no clear right to understand the law. This is the first problem, that the law is not clear, and indeed far away. I also agree with what. A senator with the penalty frame. It's just a message to a two-year sentence. You might as well describe it in a blog article, knowing that. It has no greater effect than that. The line of punishment must be hair, end of a serious offense, and he was particularly concerned with giving the police the information they need to study the cases of serious sexual abuse, which they certainly are. These are the problems I'm assuming are the sentences of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u50	A respectable president. General penalties are certainly getting pretty old. It's been a long time since they were set. But the idea is that they actually pass the evolution of time, and I think that the above - mentioned Supreme Court is proof that they did. Now we have an example to allow them to control their digital bitterness in this regard. Speaking of not knowing how to deal with the situation, the Supreme Court has said it, this is a judgment on how it is. This is part of explaining the court case. If we make such a change, we must be careful not to squeeze the trial away from what it is today. Have the operators of the bill received a review of specialists, such as the Court Committee, or the justice system itself, that we are certainly not narrowing the rights of rights from what it is today and that we have been confirmed by the Supreme Court? That's very important to me. Has it been determined what it is that has really made it difficult to achieve matters successfully? Is that something about the evidence? Is there something in the legal code that we need to change? Is it not that there is no modern - day debate in the law the only problem and that which has been difficult to achieve its rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u51	A respectable president. In terms of the wrongdoing issues that I mentioned, it is best to examine them elsewhere than in objections because they simply have the potential for doing so. But even the police have not handled matters the way you would like. It is as if police agencies themselves were not aware of it and normal, since the law is not clear about reading. The problem actually shows around you whether to use 209. gr. or 233. b and if it does not work, we need to go to 234. ... depending on the circumstances of injuring and such. Trouble in the system relating to this fracture is rather obvious. It's a thought to solve it. Hv. One senator noted that we must be careful not to crowd out the legal standing now. You're absolutely right. Comments were made on a earlier donation of a bill submitted to the Council of 145th, which reminds me. Then, under one or two years, the penalty line was in 209. The shame - filled branch is four years. The speaker was rightly concerned that the rights of violations were being squeezed. But in this bill, the line is raised for six years, and then it's 2 mg. a law that is designed to help people realize that they are responsible for protecting such material, even if they have the material at their disposal, they are responsible for not being distributed. The answer to a question why. The senator's review of this bill is no, but it has been taken into account the reports received in the treatment of the previous case, which were proposed by another group. I strongly assume that such comments or concerns are involved during treatment. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u52	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for your transfer, huh? paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for this matter. I think it's very important that you take it. Clearly, this is a growing problem in our society today. Although, as the discussion points out, courts have been trying to cover these fragments with reference to other cases in penalties, I don't think that there is any doubt in the importance of the lawgiver's handling of the matter in a clear way and in a clear line of such offenses. In fact, we have been disappointed in how long we have been responding to such matters. What I may be thinking about in this is that - yes, I'm glad to see that rather than the penalty frames we have today's sentence examples of 209 gr. Penalties on shameful conduct. Now we hear of the great and terrible stories that go up to the mill sign #metoo or # I'm like, and a lot of examples of a person sending footage in a very pornographic way that is clearly broken against the relevant individuals. However, after they have been referred to the police, it seems that they rarely bring charges, let alone the trial. It would be interesting to hear from what happened. vehicle anyway. A senator has thought about whether such a violation, i.e. Sends on such pornographic material to individuals who refuse to accept such self - image, as it were, in some way under a law like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u53	A respectable president. I'm not quite 100% sure I understand the question correctly. But what this is supposed to do is that people who are affected by such violence can seek justice and receive the help of the needed police. The right of the individual to always decide for himself what is being done by means of such material must be holy, not used by another word, based on popular sexual freedoms. This bill is intended to place it entirely in the authority of each individual. Now we know that not everything that happens on the Internet is always possible. Never will we be able to take out the harm caused by such a offense, unfortunately. But that is also true. that's very serious. However, it is often known, not always but often, who is involved in wrongdoing. Two. The bill is also assumed to be responsible for the law. This is especially so because the basic idea is to find out where in the law the responsibility should be. She is to lie with those who have the material in their possession. The person should ensure that it does not distribute, whether by accident or by deliberate design. When it comes to intent and knowledge or is suspected of having committed such a crime, this high penalty number, six years, is thought to have all the resources the police need for it. Such fractures are very serious. And a lot of research that the police get with such a high line. To give the police the opportunity to investigate these matters in all the necessary ways, it is a direct goal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. Maybe I just wasn't clear enough in the question. I just agree with what. Of course, a member of this matter is responsible for some aspect of the subject or material in such a way, and it makes it very clear that both of them can be considered to be fragile; gross indiscretions or outright intentions. But what I meant, pointing to my question, is where a clean spell is being sent out to some sort of snooze, not necessarily by the recipient, but directly to harass the individual, much to the confusion of the same person. We see a number of examples of this in our discussion today, where films are being sent even to young adults who are very dirty or hurtful. Has a what? A member of the council wondered whether such a penalty could cover such offenses as well or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for explaining the question. I understand it better now. I don't think the word "penis" is bad, I'm gonna let myself say it. Hv. A senator is talking about what in everyday speech is said when a person sends off a penis picture, usually to a woman who doesn't want anything with these pictures. It can certainly be part of harassment. I haven't looked at such a thing as that piece of paper would cover such a offense. Such a fraction would rather fall below 209. Gr., already in law, as a shameful offense. There's a four - year prison strip. I haven't thought of anything to determine if that line of punishment is appropriate, four years. But quickly, it seems to me that it is. I don't see reason to go to a six-year prison frame with the local police warrants for such a crime, although certainly such conduct is unattractive, we assume that it is unattracted if this is meant to be a violation. It involves comparable behavior and the feeling of harassment in general. There are a number of such behaviors that we call fractions or not fractions, depending on whether they are welcome or not. Then it must be the standard. Looks like a quick 209 to me. That's enough. I don't know that it was a particularly difficult case to study from that letter of the law, I just don't know it. It may well be. But then I'd think it would be more important to try to find a legal basis for what is called harassment and how to react to it. But as I say it wasn't the thought of this bill and I don't see how it would fall under this bill. But a good question and worth further discussion on a committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u56	Mr. President. This case is important to me, and it is, I think, for the rest of my life and for a very great deal of discussion in the community about sexual violence, digital sexual violence in this case. It's very necessary, and I think we're beginning to figure it out gradually, especially in the light of the events that have occurred in the past few months, where sexual violence and harassment have been brought into the daylight under the mill #metoo, both here and elsewhere. This kind of violence seems to be far more widespread, and it is not enough to be more widespread than we have realized, at least the one present, but is better aware of the serious consequences of such violence. It becomes more apparent that they can take people who are affected by such violence, which are mostly women, if ever, a very long time to recover. Violence has a psychological effect and can destroy the lives of those who suffer. There are also stories of people who have just taken their own lives after such violence. There are many cases of digital sexual abuse leading to such things. That's why I think we're going to be in line with trying to strengthen legal frames that deal with such constant and safe violence. Digital sexual abuse is more of a new feature of the needle. For the servers that are used, we all have smartphones, children are even wearing smartphones. It is incredibly easy to take pictures and distribute them, and often you don't think about what they're doing or don't want to realize that it can be transmitted that can be devastating. That's why I think it's only natural for us to talk about it. This bill is very much in the spirit I like, and I'm one of the transporters. I think that in this matter, like so many others, it is very important not only to strengthen the law frame but also to send a strong message to the community that such a violation will not be tolerated. Of course, all of this must be handled with instruction and information about the seriousness of such wrongdoing. The matter is the same injuring as the other issue that has been treated at the council, which has been called a consent bill, and in terms of the definition of rape where the individual's freedom and sexual freedom are still at the same time. The same thing must be true here; people's freedom should not be affected by distributing material that they do not want to be distributed. Such violence, spreading such footage, is also not that it will be easily removed; it will not be forgotten easily if it is experienced and it can be repeated over and over again if this is the case. So these are very serious matters, and they need to be tried to restrain them. I think I'm worried. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason of the Year that we may be going too far or cutting off other rights that are already present and whether this bill has been fully identified as being designed to improve the situation or to achieve the desired result in itself. We should always remember that we are moving forward. I think that treatment on committees and calling for experts, lawyers, jurists, police, people who are experienced in treating people who have been exposed to such violence, etc. is part of fixing the matter if you may be busy or if you can do so even better. Finally, I reiterate that such a matter exists that we cannot help but handle it firmly. Clearly, harassment and violence that are sexually and in many ways are a problem in the community that we need to handle with all our means, including the U.S. By intensifying, sharpening, and explaining laws in this area so that everyone realizes that this violence, of course, is, in many ways more dangerous to violence than many other factors, simply will no longer be tolerated.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u57	Mr. President. For a discussion, Pirata and I have a third priority on a change in public penal law in order to punish digital sexual abuse. First of all, I want to talk about the need to set these laws in line with human rights and that is the commitment of human rights that Iceland has taken with the approved European Convention of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights has provided clear evidence that Member States have to meet a positive obligation to protect as best they can, according to Article 8. The contract, i.e. People's right to privacy. The rights also cover the physical immunity and psychological immunity, as it were. Governments involved in this agreement to ensure by action that these important rights are adequately guaranteed within their domain. Enrolling this act in the legal field, we are sending a clear message that this violation is not permitted in Icelandic society, to be taken care of by individuals, to the sanctity of their bodies and souls. This also makes it quite clear to the citizens of this country that such behavior will not be tolerated and will be punished under Icelandic law. This is important in the light of what is often called the rationality of the legal warrants, as most of the people in this hall know, the very strong cohesion of the legal state, i.e. that the citizens can understand what is required of them, what they cannot do, and what they cannot do. This is very important in the state of the court. In view of this, I also feel very important that we put this article, which simply makes it clear that individuals who show unscrupulous or sexually explicit conduct are not to be distributed legally. It's only been entered at 209 str. the law of the law of the law, in effect, moves on to some extent. However, all concerned must realize that the expression "sorry " is rather immodest for the violence that occurs when digital sexual abuse is practiced. In this light, Mr. President, we're making this claim. We want to separate and define and accept the violence involved in such actions. We also want this to move the police to take better care of these matters, to work harder on them, and to increase their expertise in this series of issues. In view of this, I would like to point to a few factors that have been lacking and that have helped to prevent sufficient violations of these offenses, to seek justice, and to experience some kind of justice after they have been violated. My friend Júlía Birgisdóttir has been one of the most active advocates of the law against digital sexual abuse. She has been very effective in describing her experience in charge of these charges and the obstacles and hurt that were involved in the whole process. Among other things, she described how the police wanted her to be handed over to the memory document of her that had been distributed without her consent to allow the matter to continue. There was the police in the capital area asking for a copy of the offense against her and to deliver it. It describes, I think, a measure of lack of understanding and disrespect to the violence taking place there. But this is clearly the general practice and the attitude of the police that people have to show up with the evidence. It's not enough to point them in the right direction or to say, "It's there, it's there, it's here, it's here, it's here, it's here, it's here, it's here, it's here, it's here, it's here, it's here, it's here. People need to come up with a copy, or so we can see from a medical report that talks to the head of the police sex offenders, the Árni Þór Sigmundsson. A report from March 2017 says: ... that if people want digital sexual abuse to the police, they'll have to provide some sort of confirmation in police records. If there are suspicions of such things, the person likely saw it himself and could print us out or point us to the particular website. We need to investigate a specific case, not just an open suspicion of the existence of nude images. This need to be changed, especially that the police take the initiative to investigate these offenses and that the police also know the possible challenges. As my friend Júlía has experienced, the police could not tell her what violations she was discussing when a video was distributed without her consent. Newer technologies, such as these, are both opportunities and threats, but it has taken a long time to deal with and understand this threat. To define this by law makes these errors easier for victims to seek help. But this also results in having a preconceived value, where it becomes a crime. We feel that it simply needs to be clear as to what this type of offense is and that it is not used in an out - of - date article of 209. g., which refers to a fraction of degradation, a fraction designed to cover over persons who carry themselves in public or otherwise. It is by no means the same thing as it should be explained by these rules not only in accordance with the clarity of penalties but also the obvious positive responsibilities of the Icelandic state to protect the privacy of its citizens. Finally, I would like to state that sexual abuse is a must be made clear. It must be clear that this is a sexual abuse. As a community, we are moving from the definition of public resources, attitudes, speech, to the success of a person to the rightness of those who endure. If #metoo has taught us something, it's that all too often you take too much into account the experiences of bacteria instead of how bacteria affect you. I'd like to end up with a few examples of this in focus, i.e. Whether they have enjoyed sexual pleasure in their activities, which may depend on the regulations of 209. now in effect, or in the judiciary of a general penal law. The experience of bacteria has often become too important and has been used as a fee for sexual abuse, that the person has not experienced sex abuse. This view needs to be heard about, and with this principle here, with this bill, we are suggesting to bring responsibility to the victims, that they must be shown, under some archaic law code, that they have been violated, directly into the arms of the people responsible for all the responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u58	A respectable president. I want to thank you for your presence and for the fact that this bill has been released. I am very happy, and I feel figuratively that it is taking place today. I'm not one of the transporters of the bill, and I can think of it as a mistake on my part because if I've been invited to join, I haven't noticed. I would've liked to be an importer on this bill. The Internet is a marvelous technological advancement. But it has dark sides, dark sides that appear more and more as evolution and spread occurs, including digital sexual abuse. It seems from a number of accounts that you have heard, and you see that many times and times the distribution of this material follows the separation, or some such, and it is used by a clean thirst for revenge. In itself, vendettas and Internet pornography are as serious and as serious to sexual abuse as other forms of sexual violence. I've long felt that I should not bring the light of tolerance to the bacteria. We surely know that many victims of sexual abuse have told stories about the difficulty in performing and charges, how difficult it is, for example. that the speech here is way too long. Tolerance is brought through all manner of discussions. Their conduct is suspicious, even clothing, and where they were. Therefore, it is happy that this bill is presented here. When legislation is not irrefutable and not clear enough and does not provide sufficient protection, we need to see to it that it is explained so that there is no doubt or even less. That's why I'm so happy that it's done here now. It has also been observed among victims that these stories are shocking. They indicate that the consequences of autism are, in particular, less and more difficult or as difficult as the consequences of another sexual abuse. There is another matter and material in particular that in order to enforce such laws, we must enable the police to enforce these laws by ensuring the necessary instruments, knowledge, and resources. That is the subject of a special discussion. Unfortunately, in recent years contributions to the police have greatly decreased. In other words, all departments and branch offices of the police are both neglected as well as using resources, whether about traffic violations, sexual offenses, excrements, that's not important. Police are becoming more equipped than ever. I talked to a police officer the other day who told me how much money my shift had taken in Reykjavík on weekends. It's a terrible development that the shifts have become far fewer than ever. Because the police are neglected, police officers often engage in conflicts with wrongdoers they could avoid if they were properly equipped. Similarly, there is a fraction of this kind that requires technology, a great deal of knowledge. We need to be ready for that, and it takes in itself to follow such legal procedures as this, that the police are able to provide enough money and resources to enforce this good case. I just want to go over one thing here, though there may be other cases of sexual abuse, but I think it's so striking, and I happen to remember pretty much the British numbers on that subject, and if anything, it's a little worse here. In Britain alone, about 60 thousand women are raped every year. Some 18 thousand cases are reported in the 60 thousand cases. 2,900 cases that enter court. Of these 2,900 cases, 1,100 are condemned. 1,100 convictions of 60 thousand cases. I don't remember the numbers from Iceland, but last time I checked, we did a little worse than the British. It's disturbing, so completely unbearable, Mr. President. This shows our disrespect for those who are victims of sexual abuse. That is why it is a very good thing to try to protect these victims as best we can and to give the focus and responsibility to do the work where they live. I noticed why. An authority once said that the responsibility of the bacteria in these matters was unambiguous. He's absolutely right. However, it is also true that the responsibility of a person who is a victim of sexual immorality is always unconvinced. There is no excuse that dodoers have for some situation in which a crime occurs. Not at all. So it's very important and it's good that this case should come up, and I hope there's a way to go through the General and Education Committee, which I expect to consider. I hope that the case goes through right there, with its name supporting it all the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u59	Mr. President. I recommend here for the bill to correct the conversion of agricultural products from 1993, and equipment laws from 1998, and to connect with the exception of the terms of competitive legislation, prices of equality, etc. It's no secret that last year, when I was a marine eco-efficiency minister, I made some changes with the aim of promoting agriculture and strengthening the status of farmers wherever they are, but rather to strengthen the survival of consumers and ensure their best interests when it comes to agriculture management and policy. We have to understand that when we discuss these terms from competitive law that there are valid reasons I'm not going to necessarily criticize today, because they were put in place at the time. They have contributed to greater compression, a much better foundation for the milk industry and production and many good things have become available. But it remains that I strongly believe that competition and business freedom are a key factor for Icelandic society, so it doesn't matter whether they are farmers, consumers, people who work in fishing roads, tourism, or wherever they are. I am convinced that if we are guided by this, we can build a powerful society, a powerful industry, an ever more transparent, as well as an understanding of industry and what is behind each decision. I find that after a while, you have to say, as it is, that I have at times felt that there is a lack of transparency in certain employment decisions, that is not just to agriculture. In agriculture, there are also some. can be noted that it is not the most clear rules that have been placed on the board for example. The draft board makes its decision, and often it is difficult to obtain information, much less when you have it on the basis. But we must not forget that history has a purpose. It is easy for us who are now living in 2018 to criticize something done five years ago, let alone 15, 20, 35 years ago. The purpose of this project has always been to promote Icelandic agriculture at any given time. That's an important goal for all of us to keep in mind, but I'm also convinced that the more targeted we associate the interests of farmers and consumers, the more powerful the commercial agriculture, the greater the support the public will have. Then we have to build a system so that it actually does, that farmers can do their own business, so that the system will not hold them down, whether we are talking about sheepmen, milk farmers, or others, but much more gives them room to choose their own path, to go the ways that lead to it. to innovation, a variety of sceptres within the agricultural field, which have been very interesting to watch during the past years to see how everything is developing. I would also like to point out that in the last year's discussion of the problem of sheep farmers, although this is not a topic of discussion, it has. It is a good guide in how the increase in production and production of a wide variety of sheep farmers has been made to the local community and to the market. I think that's a good example. This suggests that despite much discussion, farmers and leaders take it seriously and continue in their development to meet consumers. That is a cause for rejoicing and joy to know. We can also do even more with the support of the State and with the point that the one standing here and the restoration that has a vision in agriculture, we strongly want us to continue to support Icelandic agriculture, so it's said. We consider this important, not only from cultural roles but also from the fact that we have important products, products that are based on wholesome and good environments. We have the goods we should always support and be proud of. That is why we need to consider how we can continue to contribute to this variety. No one should be afraid that agriculture will be competitive and generally competitive in 2018 about Icelandic agriculture. Even if there's something else, I'm not going to criticize it and put them in holes, now we're just looking to the future. The future is that we should prepare for competition. We're supposed to be building for freedom of business. And we are to build up the environment that covers not just certain jobs but others don't. If we believe that competition and freedom will solve our situation, we should support it. There are others here in the hall who have had the political vision of hindering competition and who do not believe in it. That's just the way it is, there's nothing to say. Throughout history there have been groups that have supported it both in word and at the table. The interests of consumers, but then on board, it's done very little. I have in front of me the National Conferences of the Independence Party three years ago, which says, in fact, by permission of the President: It is important to further reduce the accessways in Icelandic markets. A local meeting concluded that the agricultural law should be revised to show that - do you hear it? --from the foundation to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of Icelandic agriculture. More business freedom will improve consumer interests. The Independence Party National Meeting highlights competitive laws for agriculture, such as other sectores. I think this is a great conclusion. I even think I've voted with her at the time, by far. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is what I'm talking about. One thing is to be in the word of a highly competitive advocate; another to follow through. Then it is important that we keep in mind greater economic interests. That's the perfect key. Is that how we trust ourselves? Do we trust in that road? I say yes. We trust in that, on the restoration. That is why talking about it and following it will be a key factor. That's why we're members of the Parliament at the exposé even. to submit this bill, especially after we examined the current government Constitution, which includes one of the early activities of the current agricultural minister. taking matters that promote competition in a dairy market and in milk production, and pushing them off the table. It's totally surprising when you read the Declaration of Independence. But there may be only certain persons who have the authority to choose such the best chocolates out of their national meetings and follow them along. That's another story. This is clear on the part of the government; it is not going to do anything to increase the competition of milk markets; hence, it is not going to do anything in building under free producers, smaller producers, those who want to continue, they have begun but need even more space. I believe that by the environment that we've created, and we're moving it into the environment that the competition law gives them, we'll get even stronger milk production and milk production. We will see the increase in innovation and sceptre. I'm even pointing. to the seaside, where there is freedom, where there is a total competition. We've developed a transparent structure system on this article - it's controversial, as we actually came into the past, Mr. President, how we've built up the water main, but there are clear rules. We see great variety within the fishing road. We've got spades coming forward. Fish products are being used as never before. There's something I know that agriculture has been inspecting and is entering. What a cause for joy that is! Talk about reimbursement of the agricultural laws and the livestock contracts, part of what we're supposed to look for is to support farmers in increasing the market value of the products. They should be supported in increasing carbon balances because it not only increases environmental awareness and makes us better in the environment but also leads to an increased wand in a variety of trades and productions, etc. And we should especially support young farmers in order to continue in this article. Here I recommend change of livestock as an exception to the principle of competition. The primary objective of these changes in the bill is to establish general agreements in the dairy market so that the general principle of competition for it will be established, there will be no extra care, there will be no rules for interest stakeholders, but general rules. I have full faith that those who are already on a surface can succeed in a competitive market. This bill is intended, therefore, to reduce the government's exchange of prices, including production and production of dairy products. It's no secret that this is building for a bill that was employed in the marine road and agricultural department when I was there last year, based on it. It is also not a secret that it was put in a review process and that it received some criticism, highly predictable criticism on the part of the available people, who feel that they are under an umbrella or protection from the laws that give them today. Then there are others who encourage this way to be gone. There are also technical adjustments in accordance with the livestock contracts in this case. We have examined and guided by current laws and regulations in neighboring countries and by what commitment we have made through the GATT convention. Exceptions from competitive law under law have been passed. That's for even. a lot of opinions from the Contestance Board on how and how to interpret them. But with this bill, we are suggesting that important exceptions from competitive laws, which are very abnormal in 2018. So in my opinion, the bill solves the major issues of controversy that have existed as a result of the application and interpretation of exceptions from competitive law. You see, I don't think it's a job to bring in a set of rules from standard rules, such as competitive law. I don't think we necessarily build trust by promoting specifics. Especially is it true that most important stakeholders are coming and beating up a armored city for the special law, the law of this law. Today's Exception Code in 2018 wars in my opinion against the public interest and puts the interests of selfish interests ahead. It is suggested that the price be removed. It is reasonable that the full retailing of milk products will also be more free, so the price of milking takes into account the cost of production in excess of the current level. They will discuss the role of the Committee of Prices. I want to direct it to what? The job committee is to examine the role of the responsibilities of the Committee of Rewards. I've been asked why we're supporting the prices committee today. We do well to consider whether we should keep the Governing Body. It is also thought - provoking if we are to keep her in mind if she is to be represented by farmers. These are the tips I've been given, including points out that the Secret Bank's Department of Money, which decides to make interest to banks, does not represent banks. The comment I received is asked why the local community on behalf of the Farmers Association will be on the price-seat-employment board, which will decide for themselves. This is something I would like the Committee to consider, if this budget on the price of agricultural prices is correct. The objective of the bill is also to eliminate uncertainty and to set a clearer framework for the sources of products and to clearly establish a competitive, competitive set of footprints in the milk industry, without exception. As I could in the past, the bill was now sent for review. I've looked at things and things that came out there. Some changes have been made to match the observations made, but the main purpose, to eliminate the exception, has not been changed. It even came. until the prices have been assessed at times unnatural and harmful to consumers and markets, pointing out that they are oscillating, in part arbitrary, and contributing to a certain waste of value. The change would mean that products that would have been subversive at higher prices than those that would have been overcrowded dropped. It would be important for prices to take into account products, but prices distorted prices, thus disrupting competition. Price adjustments in accordance with production costs and competition would lead to greater competition for the market of dairy products to which they have expertise. We need to increase our variety, with all due respect for MS, the Galacasse, which has been successful in the cost of development and market development. It needs to strengthen the position of the small and medium manufacturer. There is no need to be able to live up to competitive legislation, and I know that it is now taking on a great export to the United States to form an environment where there is a fine competitive spirit. It's not unusual when you look at e.g. Sidggi's Scot, Sigurður Kjartan Hilmarsson, who has built up that handsome business in the United States. This has been done without the arrival of financiers who have built on a monopolitan position. The milk-saltery is about to go to an export that is also built. on a financial basis which comes from a monotonous environment. I don't think that's right. It was made detailed comments on the proposed change of 71 st. The law, which shall be removed from the law of competition. In other words, it suggests removing the release of products in the dairy industry to coexist with milk exchanges in terms of milk production and other cooperations in maintaining the cost of production, storage, and distribution of dairy products. Is that unnatural? We've already seen a great deal of fusion between parties at a market where they've reached a certain economy. It is proper to say that on a market that is actually much harder and bigger and as important to consumers, the Contestance Commission has been built on the basis of Article 15. Elaborate authority to rule out specific conditions, as we have pointed to in the field of oil markets and communication. So there is an example for us to be able to say, "All right, we'll set the standard rules, but in certain areas, if necessary, and more detailed information is given, we'll provide access to a 15th paragraph. I have come to realize that there may be a measure of suspicion on the side of the demolition at the Contestance Control. I'm sorry. On the other hand, I would like to point out that if individual lawyers follow the criteria of the Contestant and share information, they will not be reluctant to communicate information, their applications are taken for material treatment. I don't see any better than the Contestance Commission could easily apply in some aspect of the milk industry, if that's the case. We should not be afraid to be afraid of the general rules of competitive, much more so, we should be afraid to continue to create an environment that is under guard and a principle from competitive law. In the long run, this may be a factor for the development of the industry. Instead, we're supposed to see this pantheon, which is in Icelandic agriculture, and I have to say, in particular, in the milk industry and that the companies, the largest people who are like the Radarsells, are going all grumbling and more positively into these changes. It's not a good thing for a company that's the biggest and the biggest of them to fight against the fact that there's a standard but not a set of rules here. Rather, people should approach this positive fact because this is an opportunity, we see it everywhere in the world, at least we who believe that freedom of business will come into a better society. I believe that this thought is even stronger in agriculture. In fact, I don't really want to go through the bill better in that sense so that I can see that time is slow and slow. I'd like to encourage a professional committee and the people sitting there who are considering it carefully. I fully appreciate that there are certain requirements that humans will point to and say: This is not normal, we need to change the other. But for God's sake, let's try to make this case, this princely man, through the council, i.e. that general competitive laws apply to these activities, such as all others. I think it's healthy, and I'm sure it's healthy for the article as such. We can come, and the committee can make some adjustments in the case, perhaps as I had a chance to do the change in prices of farms, bring it into the modern world, make it so that the consumers, and not just the Ministry officials, and a few city leaders, understand the prices of farmers, but so that the public and everyone understand. Because I'm also convinced that when not only general competitive laws apply to the sector but also increase the transparency of information, there will be more support and understanding in the community in further development of a sector that has a wealth of government skills. I'd like to emphasize that she should. We support that farmers will continue to be strengthened, but it does not matter how they do so. That's a discussion we must dare take. I'm convinced that we can proceed, not only with this case, but also with the review of the livestock deal if we get more and more at the table. This is one of the things I discussed earlier in connection with the seabed. I am convinced, too, that the more connected, the more interested ones, the more jobs, the consumers, the farmers, the shops, the harvest stations, and others, the better the system will be created. We must also have the courage to invite all to the table with differing opinions. I sensed that some people just weren't allowed to come to the table at the reimbursement of the livestock deal. I think it's bad for the article to exclude a particular person from going to the discussion, let alone a reexamination of the labour agreement. That's why at the beginning of my career as a agricultural minister, I immediately considered it important to jump up the review board, even though I know that my predecessor, was still the case. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson also had a valid view. However, I felt that it was more important to extend it, and I know that under the leadership of Svanfred daughter of Jónasdóttir, there has been an enormously good work. My work is fine. I understand that the conversations that have taken place and the work that has been done are designed to promote further reconciliation with the possible changes in the farm contract. There are large decisions available to farmers and related people who are under the 2019, next year, they will vote for their milk to be said or not. There are differing opinions among dairy farmers. Then I think it's very important that not only will there be milk farmers who understand it and discuss it among themselves but we'll also get committees and particularly the public involved in understanding what the system is doing. This will help, increasing understanding will help the article to progress. To say, Mr. President, I emphasize the key point of the bill, which is to cancel this special rule related to milk production. This is of utmost importance, of greater interest in the public. Let us promote business freedom in the country. Prepare to compete. It is for the good of all, the consumers, the public cities, and especially for the farmers of the land. Their situation will be strengthened by the fulfillment of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator before the talk and for delivering this bill. Hv. In his speech, a member of the body entered many subjects. I have a paper full of comments that would have been reason to go through everyone in answer to what happened. A senator will do so in my speech afterward. Hv. A senator claims things in his speech, saying that everywhere in the world people talk about better business and so forth. I know why. A senator somewhere about a state where agriculture is not a special support or that it is living with others? There is a United States, which provides a special protection for the agriculture and environment. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator whether I'm correct in saying that the Contestance Commission has been retraced with all but a slight comment on what it has brought on the agriculture? I'm not right that the Contestant has always been rerunned with everything they've been trying to get into the agriculture with, especially the milk, because the League is naturally obsessed with agriculture. Hv. A senator speaks as if a general competitive law does not apply to agriculture, nor does it apply to milk. Is it a misunderstanding that the milk industry receives an exception from a certain aspect of competitiveness? I may have misunderstood all this time, but I've always thought that it was just a small part of a competitive song that the milk industry was the exception.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u61	Mr. President. I find it hard to hear when my good friend and my bad. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, whom I now respect. Senator of the Southwestern District, comes down here and talks down the Contestation Board, a check-in-the-state, including the U.S.A. Citizens and citizens of the Southwestern District, as relevant to the people of Taliban. We have a lot more to say: Shouldn't we assume that the same important organization as the Contestance Control is only going on the same way, i.e. ... public? We must trust in what the Contestant Board does and have done many very good, important and important things for the public in many areas. It is true that many areas of life are supported. I told you so many times. When we get back to talking about agriculture, others talk like we don't want to support them. I think I'm going to repeat this for the fourth time: we'd like to support the Icelandic agriculture, but we'd like to have the exception, which is the 71nd par. A competitive song, that's exactly right. Other factors are under general competitiveness, but this is what is most important for the development of SMEs who want to follow the path of the milk industry. There's always one party, Lavalsalan/KS, in the highest market position, no matter what you say. So, shall we discuss import barriers? In the years past, which have thankfully been reduced, are there? But there are still import barriers to Iceland on the basis of the EEA Convention, although we have actually broken down in the last few years for a certain part. I say, "Yes, I have to trust the monitors and the institutions we have built up even the rest. " at council, set up an act of legal action and finance, in order to do his job. [[The president calls.]] I trust it, and I don't think it's any point to talk down the decisions the Contestant has made in good faith.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u62	A respectable president. Right away. A senator began to talk about customs, and I realized what it was that I was reminded of. She reminded me of--I'm not gonna say it. I'd rather discuss my speech. This is like suddenly entering a council of professional drivers, some of the toughest special interest groups in Iceland. I asked why. A member of the council went on to explain correctly that the milk industry was not immune to general competitiveness. There is one specific exception that the lawgiver decided for 2004 - the lawgiver here, this house - i.e. that a certain aspect of competitive behavior was avoided by the milk industry. So, then, shouldn't the Contestance Council be a law to them? Won't this be done instead of procrastinating? We're gonna go for a second. A senator can agree on one thing, even though we have different ways of doing it; the common people and consumers are expected to enjoy good and wholesome Icelandic products. [[The president calls.]] But we will not do this by accepting the bill the senator offers and I will review it later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u63	V.E.G. President. Well, what is it like to be a punk and punk at the Icelandic consumers? It is unnatural in 2018 for humans to build on special rules from competitive law. Many times earlier, I told them that there were reasons why this route was gone in 2004. She was controversial then, just like now. To say that it's just some pipe in a professional driver's club is a typical way of speaking to those who never want to change anything or anything. It's an old lawsuit, just a new costume. This is the presentation of those who want to protect their interests before the greater interests of the public. I am convinced that if Icelandic agriculture operates in accordance with the general law, the whole law, because each law is important - 71.g. is one of the most important articles on competitiveness - growing trust and support for Icelandic agriculture. However, there is great support for agriculture in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]] We don't want to change it. We'd rather increase it. We do this by allowing all jobs to operate according to general competitive laws. Special protocols are old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u64	Mr. President. This is a very interesting and fine bill, and I'm one of those people who think free business is good. Even if I wasn't generally in favor of my objective, it has to be said that this is with the better - equipped members of Congress that I have seen, both in the process and in the report. I'm so glad we're done. Thank you. There are a few questions, though, that I can think of. The first is regarding the claim. A senator says that the change in law will result in a better price to consumers. I'm willing to believe that, but I need some of the evidence. Has there been some sort of analysis of how this might affect you? You see, there are quite a lot of analyses in the bill, especially the financial impact on the state funds and the like. But I feel like there's a lack of real figures or an analysis of what real public interests are. Then I find it quite clear that in a way, this is some kind of reaction to the competitiveness of the Radarsell, MS, at the time of the year that the manufacturer was made up. But it is a question of whether there is also any analysis of the exact effect against less producers. I find that a general idea of free trade is that not offering such a monotonous position will help, but it's a question of whether the bill is directly involved in these companies or is directly related to the interests of smaller companies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u65	Mr. President. Yeah, smaller producers. You should point out that the collection part is not being modified. The arrangement that is now through Desolation, which has the responsibility to collect milk and pay for it, no matter how far it is difficult to fetch it, it will continue to ensure the collection part. We're not changing that. But in connection with wealthy persons, the prices, the prices, should be highly transparent and based on clear evidence. Hopefully, the role of the retail committee is to be taken care of carefully in the way that the collection work is being performed. I am convinced that through that route, less manufacturers are also being assured of access to raw products and materials for production. It's important, and we just see it wherever we've increased competition in the Icelandic market. Is there any area in which we see that competition has not benefited consumers? You want me to mention Costco? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I understand Costco's falling out of style, but maybe it's okay to still mention Costco here. At a fuel market. We'll see exactly what we'll do. Participants for the market begin to offer more services or different services, produce new products. It's all for the benefit of consumers. But I don't keep it up and draw it out in the bill that some products may well rise, maybe butter will rise, but other things, the products, etc., drop. It's what we're also saying, that we have a natural price here, that not only will there be some committee in town who decide which products to subsidise and which are not. All of this strengthens a healthy environment. I am convinced that healthy environment benefits producers as well as consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u66	Mr. President. I agree with what. The question, of course, was primarily about whether there was an analysis of the extent to which it led, perhaps another matter. The decision of the International Business Agency since 2015 is discussed in the bill's report. It's always the same conversation that comes up with vacations and agriculture, there's only a lot of countries in the world that are very sensitive to the fact that agriculture is open. It is widely known that New Zealand has canceled all customs and most of the strength. I know there's no one to suggest it here, i.e. When it comes to strength, it's a question of whether it's gonna be. A senator to strengthen the competitiveness of the entire Icelandic agricultural field to other countries. Hv. A senator mentioned Sid's Shirt and more. Can this make us more successful?
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u67	Mr. President. Yeah, sure. We're doing great. Only in the past five years have we seen outstanding changes in development in Icelandic agriculture about goods, services, and so forth. We can take even more steps under the protective and open, free competition that we enjoy. I am convinced that this will help us. General and clear rules will encourage the sprouting and the new thinking we need. New companies are set up, they may go under, but that's something that lives. Then there are others who continue to thrive and take advantage of knowledge and development, research, etc. This results in long-term support of Icelandic agriculture. We're doing it. We see this on a certain scale today in the export to Europe and the United States. If we believe in it, we will see this wand, the innovation that will eventually produce stronger agriculture. We have excellent products, especially in a demanding world, wholesome products in wholesome surroundings.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and for this discussion. I believe all discussions about Icelandic agriculture are of good quality, it's as organic as it is in my opinion. I'm not saying that I support all that has been presented and have some comments to it. There's one thing I wanted to draw attention to. Hv. A senator speaks of our choosing a general interest in other interests. Then I'm worried about how the originals can see it in a calm and orderly way. Would it not be tempting to pay a higher price? It is suggested that any change, according to Article 8, is permitted to pay the producers higher prices. The law. The question is, Is it not the tendency for competition to push farmers away living in peripheral areas? I'd like to think so. A senator said that the bill was put forward to support the producers, but I think it's just so dangerous.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, give Halla's Signý Kristjánsdóttir. I agree so deeply with her about the agricultural discussion, in which many saw their best interests in setting up contrasts, i.e. Those who allow themselves to express themselves about changes in agriculture and the people who talk about changing Icelandic agriculture are of the evil. That's why I welcome this approach. Senator. We're supposed to talk about this. As soon as we're speaking of Icelandic agriculture, we're supposed to take advantage of this opportunity to see what a system change of agriculture can do for farmers. We know that farmers are not the best farmers in society. If so, how can we improve our thinking? Here's where we'll talk about milk production. That's exactly part of it, it's a guarantee that the collection is guaranteed no matter where you're in the country. The same price for farmers is guaranteed by the existing arrangements, and this is not a threat. On the other hand, I am convinced that by increasing the number of people who can produce milk, the growth of the interest in farms will be strengthened, while it is not just one or two of the biggest, most secure buyers. I think the more involved people build the Icelandic milk industry, the better for Icelandic farmers. I think so. Hv. A senator may not think so, but I see an opportunity there for Icelandic farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u70	A respectable president. Thanks for that. Still, I'm a little worried that the effects of the changes made by an authorityman are not appreciated enough, as well as that of a dog. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy went for it. I'm worried if this has been worth considering, whether the effect has been adequately evaluated. As long as all goods are in place, I think these changes will lead to difficulties in our everyday life. I think it might be a little difficult. I just wanted to bring this up. I think farmers will be taken into account at one time or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u71	Mr. President. Already there is a great economy for milk production. The number of clients has decreased, has grown, and has become much more technological. We're doing much better today than we were five years ago, let alone 10 years ago. The article itself is being developed on a vast scale. It has a degree of compression. As this article itself endeavors to meet the requirements of consumers and markets, economics are a factor. The basis for this is a valid view. We're supposed to take them seriously. But I also think we should have the courage to say that we need to secure the collection. No matter how difficult and costly it is to reach, we will continue to do so. At the same time, we need to say that certain areas of the country are more suitable for milk production, for cow farmers, than for others. Some areas are stronger. For example, it is Eyjafjordur. There are also other areas that are stronger for e.g. Sheep's farmers. There must be a time when you dare say: " Shouldn't we strengthen the sheep farmers in certain areas to keep the article there? [[The president calls.]] It can be environmental, and it can also be practically based.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u72	Mr. President. We will discuss changes in the milk industry, which are not competitive. I always ask myself, " How is fear of competition in any way? ' In fact, some members of the council have not been particularly successful advocates of free competition in various fields. Other classes, including at least One in the present national part of the world has considered himself to be a publisher of free competition, a publisher of freedom. Then you ask, "Why not in an agricultural field? " I think it is good to make an effort at the beginning of this discussion that this matter should not be killed by talking about those who speak here for agrienvironmental competition in the same way as giving support to agriculture. It's just two different things. We're all here more and less agree that it's very important to support the Icelandic agriculture. We do so with a great deal of direct support but also with indirect support in the form of protection. In fact, we support most, at least, OECD, in agriculture as a share of land production. There are few countries that support agriculture as much as Iceland does. There's no particular debate about this. We know that there are many difficult conditions for farming and many strong evidences that, like other countries, we are to support this important business. This does not change, however, that when we have a business that we really support, both in direct support and indirect, with customs protection, we should likewise make a very rich requirement for the benefit of the public. It's what I've never understood, with this fine milk industry's exception, which was brought here to the law 14 years ago, that the exception of a very short discussion, and actually a completely ignominious argument of the Lawgiver at the time, why would such action have to be taken? When we look at the value of agricultural products, milk and cheese, e.g. Only in the consumer calculus, their value is more than the value of gasoline or oil in the same index. I ask myself, " Could we be prepared to discuss here a large amount of oil share or sale from competitive law? ' In view of my experience, I think the answer to the question in this room would definitely be: No, that's not an option. To ensure consumer interests, we are to rely on the power of competition. It is the best tool we have to make sure that consumers get the most benefit from any production and services being provided in any field of employment. There's nothing to be afraid of in this. A competition provides us at its most affordable price to consumers, which is a variety of goods, as the best service, as the most innovation in the sector. There are truths that are accepted in every other part of the world, in every other industry. We rely on competitiveness to ensure the development of the industry, good products selection, good service, a good price for consumers. This is the simplest and best way to make sure of this. In this context, I allow myself to ask, " Where are consumer interests? As we look at the prices of dairy products from the fact that these laws were passed 14 years ago, the price of milk and dairy products has nearly doubled in price prices at the same time as the index food prices without housing has increased by 80%. It's just a small number of groceries if there are a few that achieve the increase in the same index price without housing during the same period. In comparison, I think the increase in sodas and drinks, in the drinking industry, is about 403/45% during this same period; almost half of the prices that have been found in milk at the same time. There I think it is quite obvious that there is simply not enough competitive pressure to return what we are stressing in this context, a growing economy in this sector to consumers. After all, that is what matters to us. Of course, we want powerful and powerful agriculture. But we also need to realize that when we separate from a industry that these competitive laws establish uncertainty, e.g. As to the issue of the Contestant Convention on the Galacontracts, it is currently established whether or not the prohibition against the misuse of the market is applicable in the case of the Radar Group. There is no doubt that Galaxalaan is completely in the market position, even if there was anything else. I think that the market share of the Galacasse and related parties is somewhere between 95-6977 percent. It's undisputed. The company is completely in the marketing position. This is always a very difficult situation for other producers to try to compete. That, and especially when we look at the fact that a store owner directs all sales at a global level in this market. It's obvious that there's got to be some sort of remedy. I often think about conversations with old professional drivers, who said: "It was all much nicer in the traditional season when it was just such official prices committees. You see, it was so damn convenient to support the need for increase, to point to some index increase, to pay up; the enemy was not very difficult to convince the relevant committee of the need to raise prices. It is usually far more difficult to convince the customer of the need for the rise than the official committee. Therefore, the competition, the prices, the consumer or other customers are so important in this context. We should not fear that in the case of milk industry, rather than other occupations. We're here to ensure a good work environment. We are to ensure proper support and protection in comparison with comparable international jobs. There's no dispute. We're just not supposed to give up these competitive jobs. There is no need to fear that an article prepared to go through so much economic development on the basis of this substitution is simply put back under competitive legislation so that there is no doubt about it and that the Contestant can keep track of these activities as well as anyone else. It is not a matter of repute that several times the Contestance Commission is criticized for various of their observations, tests, and decisions. It is not surprising that individual jobs will deal with the Contestant for the rightness of the case, whether the decision is correct. We have a means of launching such cases to the decision - making committees, to the courts. So there is no need to be afraid that this industry, like anyone else, will have jurisdiction in the League of Nations. I don't understand where that fear has come from, and what the purpose is by this law. Based on the limitations of the logic support for the issue back then, it is impossible for me to understand how little interest has been on the part of the political side since that time, over the 14 years, in taking this exception to a review. It can't be that such an exception should be premature. It must come to the point where there has been an adequate economy in this article so that there is no reason to rule it out in accordance with the principle of competition. It is not illegal in competitive rights to be a big party on the market, it is only illegal to abuse that position. That's the point. I don't think there's anything in particular about the interests of farmers in this context. I think the advantage of farm farmers would be better and more because this market was the most competitive market; it guaranteed as the greatest product development, the greatest competition for farming production in this area. And yet again: There is no need to confuse the discussion, either about the interest of farmers as the pioneers in this article or about the interests of the products of the products of the retail system, to sit in one way or another at the market. I think it's a long time to reconsider. I don't think there's anything to worry about putting the industry back in conclusively under competitive laws, so no doubt about it, for either the Contestants itself or the courts, which law applies in this context. After all, we must ask ourselves: " Has this exception provided a benefit to consumers? When I look at the prices of dairy products compared to other foods, other agricultural products, other drinking products, for example, I cannot see it. Far from it. I think it's obvious, when you look at this price development, that there's a substantial lack of competition that has ultimately led to a much greater increase in prices on these products than has occurred in comparable sectors. We can take meat production, we can take vegetables - these are articles that have raised considerably less prices on their lips than the milk industry, although they do not enjoy such extras. This is good. It's a long time to deal with this. We are to be able to have healthy, reasonable discussions about it. I also call for the importance of the competition in most areas of employment and, of course, the discussion of how we should cooperate with Icelandic agriculture. In the end, all of us agree that it is important and right to support the article.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It is always fun to listen to the senator, as are other representatives of that proposal that are very loyal to the cause they bring to the chamber. Of course, there are a few things I would like to ask, but I'm going to ask about one thing that is related to a word. Senator on prices. A 2015 Economic Institute for High School of Iceland reports on the permission of a president: In other words, the price of dairy products was higher than that of other consumer products from 2003•2013. Is it wrong, considering? A senator, this findings of the Institute of Economics? I'm not going to spend time reading all this stuff, but this is the conclusion that milk products have increased less costs than other consumer products from 2003 to 2001. Then I would like to ask, too, " If I have a problem. ' A senator will have his wish, and the price will be taken away. A senator to inform us about what products will be up - to - date? It is important that we discern, since we care so much about consumers here, what products are going to rise in the price of deduction. It's obvious, and everyone who has studied the matter knows it's going to happen. Other products will turn down, yes, they will turn low. It is important, though, to recognize what these products are. You can't compare apples with oranges or ice cream shirts with new milk.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer to this question is: It is also very pleasant to talk about a matter of great conviction. About a question why. A senator, of the Economics Agency's report, I think it's quite right that during this period of reference, 2003◯2013, dairy products have increased less than the general price. I examined the year 2004 through the end of 2017, and it was quite clear that dairy products had increased considerably. It is also quite clear that since the end of the period referred to by the Institute of Economics, milk products have increased significantly beyond the general price level. As part of the explanation for less milk products than many other products in the late part of this period, if we look in 2009●2013, it is, of course, the massive number of successes that occurred and the huge increase in the value of import within the same period. Most domestic products significantly improved their competitiveness towards the imported in this period, and this control period may partly be improved. It appears again to be disintegrated, so during this period of my inspection, 2004◯2017, it is quite clear that milk products increase considerably more. In fact, most of them, whether looked at milk, cheese, or butter, seemed to be quite equal to all of them, being raised to a somewhat similar rhythm. In terms of prices, it is quite true that this may make a significant difference between individual products. For example, it has been apparent that milk will be kept considerably low, but it is replaced by the price of another fat foods such as cheese. This may make a difference. However, it may be wondered whether it would, for example, improve the competitiveness of domestic cheese production to the possibility of import; what may have been the source of protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u75	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. You see, new milk, cream, butter, and cheese are expected to rise if the prices are canceled. All of them are the products recommended by men to consume in Iceland because they're loyal; if I remember correctly, they're in the public health package or the standards, I can't remember the whole thing. At least we know that it is recommended, by doctors and others, that people partake of this product. While these products increase, the expected products, such as the one with the sweets and anything else, will likely be reduced. It's a question of whether we want - hopefully it's not the will of transporters - to direct consumers to something like that. I thank the senator for tip-offs on these reduced consumer products. Of course, it's always important what time we take and how we put the columns up and all that, we know it completely. Also, if we were to take advantage of our film in 1990-2017, what would it look like? When goods grew dramatically until the turn of the century, I am reminded, so people simply went into the trade of the milk industry. There's been a lot of work done to keep consumers out of line. Also, let us not forget that the cost of milk production is estimated to have increased by 38% between 2003 and2014, while the consumption of the food calculus was increased by 88%. There we are talking about a 38% rise in the cost of consumption, while the consumer calculator increased by 88%. If all the cost had been paid to the prices, what would the dairy or manufacturing products have increased? I've seen a figure of 25%. But that is why the industry took on such an increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u76	Mr. President. I don't think there's a very good conclusion. A senator would expect all major dairy products to be raised in price because prices will be canceled. If we watch the consumption, it leads to most of the fresher stuff, i.e. new milk, milk of light, and then cheese and butter again, and then yoghurt and other such things come into the same. But I'll let me doubt it, when you watch these three main products, fresh milk, butter and cheese, that it would all rise in price. In fact, in view of the publicity I've received from the Velacte, I suppose there's an exact amount of value between the fresh milk and cheese so that the cheeses could then fall, but it's likely the fresh milk will rise. It might also be asked: Should the government be on such a price control between individual products? Should we be on separate price controls in the food basket if we want to subsidize certain products at the expense of others? Is not only healthy and best for the most economic product development in the right areas, etc. that the price of this is free and the products that consumers seek are balanced? That is, in the end, what we watch on the free market is that the balance between supply and demand, and the price controls it to a considerable degree. Of course, it is also known that companies themselves carry government prices between individual products, considering how they feel the price of the product. I trust the Radials completely to do this as long as this market is free and strong. I don't think this is something we need to be especially afraid of.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u77	V.E.G. Mr. Speaker. I thank you for the discussion that we have here that has been very interesting to listen to. Transporters are talking about the benefits of being free competition, etc. After all, this is how it is that the setting today is good both for consumers and for farmers. It has sometimes been the case with two groups of farmers, cows, and sheepfolds. There's a big difference. The farming is excellent. The work around it is different from the sheep's house. That's what they'll keep in mind. Why is the survival of cows far better than sheepfolds? That's exactly what we're talking about today. The big thing in it is the setting around the industry itself, the processing process, and the 71ndret. which people are talking about today. That's the big deal. What will happen if you go along with the rest of the move - and there's a lot ahead of you in Icelandic agriculture. There are changes in customs, the EFTA Court, for import of unsolved products, etc. This is a major challenge to agriculture. I think men should think a lot of things over before they start cleaning up and changing the business environment that works well and is good for farmers and consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It is quite undisputed, and it comes to an answer made earlier, that there has become a great advantage in the production of the milk industry, with no doubt about it. Exceptions or permission to cooperate have clearly had much to say in this regard, even though it was already granted a very special allowance and given the authority to organize this market in the way it has been worked out, it may well have gained some financial advantages. It is no secret, however, that I think that a very large part of the economy achieved by farmers itself is more about the production management, the milk clover, and the vast economy and enlargement of the resulting production system and was greatly improved for farmers themselves. I have always talked with clear support of that arrangement. I think it was a very important step to ensure that more efficient units would be prepared. However, I still doubt that consumers have ultimately benefited from all the benefits of both the recovery process and the recovery of the early product through the production of dairy products, because when you watch the prices of dairy products in the index price, it is not to see that consumers have enjoyed some particular benefit. On the other hand, it is very difficult to reason when milk actually rises in excess of all other foods at the same time. That is why I say that there is a great lack of competition to ensure consumer interests. There's another matter to it again. A senator points to uncertainty ahead as to the possibility of import, EFTA Court, customs change and the like. This is exactly the same logic that was used for the exception in the past 14 years ago. I don't think that much has changed in this environment of the milk industry or the whole agricultural system during that period. [[The president calls.]] Well, it's not been as close as it was then.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u79	V.E.G. President. It is interesting in this view that consumers have not benefited from this. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson went over a set set set of documents from Iceland's University where men say in black and white that these numbers are like this. Hv. paritaprevir Víglundsson's Þorsteinn answered that it had changed in the past two years. However, for all the changes involved in cow management, production management, etc., there are a large number of factors that always work on the same basis why farmers can be paid acceptable prices for their production. That's the big deal. That's a big difference between what it's like. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir has sometimes been confusing, sheep farms, and farmhouses when it comes to talking about better competition for farmers. It has to be understood that the setting around the Velacte business makes cow farming a lucrative business in Iceland. That's a big difference between these two articles.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u80	Mr. President. Again, I say that I have no reason to question the statistics presented in an Economic Institute report but the reference period ended in 2013. Four years have passed since then. Since the survey of the figures, from 2004 to the end of 2017, there seems to have been quite another and more than most of these developments. We can argue all day or all the next week, that's why the next month is all about who the others really are and the right price of dairy products is during this period or who should have been so that consumers would have benefited. I'd like to say there's never any correct conclusion. The important thing is that there is some competition that ensures that prices are the most practical thing for the consumer. This ultimately ensures the best price for the consumer. It's as much true to mine in the milk industry as it is to other consumers. We should not fear competition in that regard. What a joy it is to be able to make milk, especially in cowers or dairy residents! What a joy it is to see the tremendous change and investment that have been there, self - efficiency, and a tremendous increase in production! What a fine example this is! And how pleasant it has been to see what has become an amazing change in a short period of time! I'm going to let me say as far as the show goes, I have much more faith in the fact that all the dairy eggs, rather than the accession of the deportation centres, have been determined by them from competitive law. I think it's very important to make that distinction. Of course, with the support we give to agriculture, we also have to be promoting positive incentives for greater efficiency and for increasing production, improving the growth of farmers. That's what we want. This is not supposed to be a farm, as the sheep farm is still to this day. [[The president calls.]] We should be looking for ways to improve the survival of farmers, but we are also to ensure good competition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u81	A respectable president. Once again, I thank you for this discussion and how the authorities have answered our answers and considered the matter. I think it's best to say it right away because of the words that have fallen here that there's no one afraid to discuss changes of course, there's no fear of looking at the system. However, there are certain princely objects in this system that we know and know are important and have worked and produced certain results. We also know that one of the key reasons, of course, for many reasons, is that working together in the milk is reasonably acceptable. To get the most out of this operation, we can maneuver. That has even been true. that he may have done better than watch it 15 years ago or so, if we apply that time. There have been significant changes in cow farming and milk production over the last few decades. Of course, this has led to a reasonably high - price effort by making practical adjustments, by working together, by being able to arrange the products according to an arrangement. I'm going, for example. to allow me to assert that the protein factory that was opened and dedicated several months ago to the north of Theggar would certainly not have been a reality if humans had not had these opportunities and this possibility of working together, to gather the raw materials to process the products. That's what I'm going to say. But if I go up to the bill a little bit, it goes through a little bit, it looks like, at least. President, that the matter of competition is not really making so much changes. There are several articles that I plan to go through below, but it is important to remember that during the past 30 years, agricultural funding has dropped dramatically. At that time, about 5% of the land's production, is around 1% and is on a pair with our control countries. If we go through just some of this bill's articles, there's also some. suggest that milk can be purchased by dairy citizens at the same cost as the market-based products. It's in the law, and I don't see that the bill is any change from what's happening today. I don't know any better than a farmer's company, a rich man, buying milk, and getting milk back to farms, but then selling it to other sources. It clearly requires that certain persons buy milk with a discount. I think, for example. to the first 300 of you. the litres have a 11% discount, something like that. I don't know any better, but some of the less involved in this sector today are going pretty well. Of course, we have an example that this has not worked out for certain partners, but I think it's more of a fault than just this system. It is then suggested that the market owner be obliged to collect and receive all raw milk, etc. It's really the way it is today. And don't forget, Mr President, I'm going to shoot it in, that farmers and those who work the milk have certain obligations, they have to produce so much and so much. We must not forget that this is a contract on both sides. It's no unnatural for men to get something for it, for their turn, so, of course, we can, as we're doing here, debate over how much and big it should be. It is suggested that the market owner be obliged to sell milk to independent companies and producers of up to 20% of the raw milk it receives. It's exactly that way in the law today, in 13. gro, so there's nothing new up there. It is also suggested that the spam prices will be determined by the price panel and the value for the manufacture of the market products and from the Member States. The same equality should be applied to other business matters and conditions. This is actually when it's like this today, maybe it's said something different over there. It is then said that the manufacture part of the market products will be separated from the other activities of the products centre. It's like it's today. There's nothing new out there. According to one estimate, the market manager for agricultural products will be placed in the hands of the Contestant Guard. As we have seen, the milk industry is a globally competitive industry but has a certain exception. It's just that we've been talking about the most. I think it's very important to make it a job or to be part of it, it's one of many things, that we have a good or good business in the milk industry today, we've been able to offer good products and low prices, there's innovation and all kinds of good things to do in this industry. This suggests that crops will not be allowed to unite or make an agreement for work, etc. I think it's a big mistake and shortsighted to suggest this because it's been one of the basics that humans have been able to develop products, to be in innovation, to build up these really few products that exist today. Humans have been able to coordinate production, and you totally respect the view that it is natural to agree with the production in some way, but there are evidence to support it. We're getting good products at a reasonable price. The milk industry is not very productive, but it's going well. I reiterate what I said earlier that I'm going to allow myself to doubt that men had gone on this great, huge, important protein project in the north if they hadn't had this exception to work together because it's so important that they can share the raw materials between the stations and agree that they're going together to take advantage of this product, work for the environment, reduce the pressure on the environment, and make serious problems. It may well be that in other circumstances, at a larger market where there was a much greater demand for these products produced from the milk, men could have gone to this new production without being given any special help. That may be so. But we just know that it's such an investment that they could never have walked in Iceland. Let us not forget that the purpose of the livestock is described in a specific way in Article 1. Their efforts, to promote progress and increase the efficiency of agricultural production and processing and sales for the benefit of producers and consumers. This, of course, has been accomplished and followed by this command of the livestock. A respectable president. Of course, all of this discussion and this fine bill can be done much further. It was shown in the talk of the biller that there are well - known examples of people with the exception of competitive laws. I think there are some sort of 20-to-30 cases of noncombatants. These include the energy sector, state of state, postal services, telecommunication, water department, health services, organizational legislation, that is the emergency line, drug business, prescriptions are listed here, air travel, rental, etc. It may be possible for a person to say that it is unnatural, all of this, but for some reason we give it. We even give them away. Because we are very small and relatively isolated in certain things. We need a set of infrastructure and infrastructure for our society to walk all over the country. I'd like to mean that part of it is that we can have a very powerful agricultural system, we can have powerful agricultural productions, including in the milk industry. That is why it is important that men have permission and authority to work together, in order to achieve the best business management because I think that's due and paid for consumers. You may find an example to show that there is more to be, more to pay to consumers. Then, of course, we should examine it. I'd like to state that no one is above criticism. Whether it's Radamals, cow farmers, anyone else, no one is above criticism. Of course, all business ventures should be beneficial when it comes to any such provision. I think he really is. I don't think there's anything else to say but that everything's on the table when it comes to these matters. However, all of us have to accept that while certain laws are in force, such as the 2004 law, they all have to work on them, whether they are farmers or harvesters or the Contestants or others, everyone has to work by the law. Mr. President. All I have reason to believe is that the bill will be given a thorough and thorough review to a professional health committee. That's a big deal. A basic change in much of the Icelandic agricultural sector is being proposed. I'm going to be willing to thank the movers for putting it into practice because we need to get Congress cases where we can discuss our discriminatory differences, what views and opinions we have on the laws and environment we're creating in Iceland. There is nothing wrong with us, however, it is very important that any logical support that then comes out of the committee and into this council - this case, of course, three talks, this is a law bill - is well thought - down and built on a solid foundation. If I have a few experiences, I can think of some comments coming from whom and how they will be spoken about this bill. It's nice to have some confidence in things, but I trust that a professional committee will give a quick consideration to the council when we can continue to discuss what's good and what's bad for Icelandic consumers and farmers and farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u82	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson found it interesting to take this discussion. I'd like to roll up two, three points in each speech. Senator. It is true that we have many examples in which we have allowed some kind of market cooperation, either directly in the law or then the Contestance Commission has approved a form of cooperation. We know this in oil distribution, we know this in a telecommunications market, and electricity distribution is under special law. In any case, though, the sector is subject to competitive laws. Of course, we can see that this is allowing cooperation in some kind of community or common distribution system, if we watch oil distribution, the telecommunications market, the electrical market, and I have thought that it would be perfectly natural for us to watch the milk industry in the same way. The evidence suggests that we should share in the gathering and dispensing of milk, which would be an enormous investment in the enforcing of a double system. It's, for example. fully aware that on the present market no other competitor could adopt a similar system. I wonder what. So a senator sees to it that this aspect of the operation is tied to special laws on collection and distribution, but we can tell the forwardness of the industry, i.e. production of consumer products themselves, is subject to competitive legislation, and because it is a healthy environment for more than one or two manufacturers, as we know in the other markets I used, for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I've thought of us as having a complete picture, we have a whole system of agriculture, and within it we have a system that would surround the milk industry, the sheep farms, and so on. To this end, I have not seen any implementation of what it would mean for the overall picture, for the economy we've seen, and to continue to occur within the milk industry, how to achieve that economy or interaction, the production, the operating of cows, the whole picture we're carrying around our business, if taken out. It may be possible to draw that picture and sell it in some way. But I don't think that rational support is in the bill. I haven't so far, which may be just today, seen that this works out in this way. You can't try the bill, if I remember correctly, to determine if the results can be negative to the overall picture, i.e. for the sale, for the prices that may exist, because, in the end, we are always talking about the little fortune Iceland has and the few farmers who produce milk today. I don't quite realize if the logic has come up that it doesn't matter how much to take it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I look at this rather simple, and I sometimes like to ask the question, " Would we accept it elsewhere? ' We provide, for example. a certain amount of oil distribution. It would be conclusive to argue very well that much more profit could be done by running just one gas - sales company in the country. We have an enormous amount of expenses at a gas station. Even too much of it is too much, and it is all too expensive and wastes on consumers, etc. I'd rather you were. A senator at some point accepts such a arrangement, especially in the light of history and competitive legislation, that we accept such an environment, that it really was competitive in a gas market? Hv. In his talk, a senator noted that if this market is slightly larger in terms of milk products, there is something else that can be done, what can be expected of it. I find it helpful to remember that oil and gasoline are less than 2% in consumption, milk products 2.5%, so the milk market is larger than gasoline and oil. Now I don't know if this is possible in all areas of the market, but at least when it comes to the index of consumer prices. Because dairy products are the biggest items in my refrigerator, I am a fan of fine cheeses and fresh milk. This is one of the most important consumer products, the one we buy every day as consumers, which weighs very heavily in the basket. I'd rather you were. A senator accepts a competitive environment in a gas - selling field that we have established in the field of dairy products? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u85	A respectable president. I don't know if it's right to compare oil sales with the milk industry. Costco was mentioned today. When Costco arrived, I was able to pump them because I had hoped that they would turn down the gas on others, but I'm not going to go deeper into it. People may disagree with what I'm going to say right now, but I'm going to take it rather as an example of the telecommunication or the electrical market. The electricity market is extremely important to the infrastructure. It has been agreed that there is an excellent means of working together. We have one distribution company, Landsnet. I think there's some reason why it's not necessarily good to have one distribution company, but I think that it would also not pay nationally to have many distribution companies. As a result, I view the agriculture, and the milk production, as an important factor, and now you have to make sure you don't use the big words, the proselytism of our country, and the fact that we're in and out of it, and you can live with a measure of food security and stuff. It is very important that such articles are strong and in an environment that allows them to provide us with products that are acceptable to us. Can we increase the competition in this sector? I'm sure, but do we have to go that way? I don't think we have to. We may gradually be able to define the role of smaller people and make their environment simpler in some way, but I wouldn't rule it out, but I would say it was good today and would have been developing in the right direction. I don't want to even sync oil and agriculture because I consider the agriculture to be part of our infrastructure. It may be old-fashioned, but then I'm just old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2018-01-31-19.u86	Mr. President. I'm going to the end of the discussion to thank especially for this interesting discussion. Although it is obvious that I am, and to form a bang, I especially rejoice, who is well - aware. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson may not necessarily agree on the approach, this mediating approach, and the fact that people didn't get shot here on how we'd like to build an Icelandic agriculture. There are a lot more things I diagnosed that unite us than divide us in this matter, i.e. that we want the interest and support of Icelandic agriculture, whether it is in sheep's raise - I'm going to talk about the sheep farm as well - or in the field of cow or milk production. I think it's important that we keep taking this matter. It is not surprising that we have made it clear that the Contestance Commission has authorized specific access to energy distribution, and then in the field of communication. This has particularly led to the conclusion that in terms of the public interest, certain co-operation can be carried out. What is a key factor in this approach to all of us is that we're going to make the public interest more specific. We believe that by removing the special rules that the milk industry has today and that in 2004 we will achieve that goal, as soon as we provide an Icelandic agriculture that we want to continue to promote and strengthen. He does so by general rules. I could and would have liked to talk about breeding sheep with milk farms or cow farms, for sheep cannot be said to live under general conditions. It is not possible to say that today's sheep labors live under general competitive laws when regular intervention on the part of the State with direct and indirect support, on the other hand, by customs protection, but by direct reinforcements, such as we were in the past year, have been established regularly because certain matters are not taken into consideration, there is not to be facing a particular problem there. But there is another discussion. I would particularly like to thank you for this objective approach, an important discussion, in behalf of Icelandic agriculture and Icelandic consumers. I got it. I got it. The job committee to handle this very carefully and to finish the case so that we can continue to discuss it here at 2nd. I hope the members of the council in this room are supporting us in our efforts.
