ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Balboni has the right to explain the question 3-01503 on the consequences of the legislation on house arrest for the Forces of Order, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u4	Minister, as you are certainly aware, pursuant to Article 123 of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020, in recent days many criminals sentenced to serious penalties, subjected to the high security regime or in any case to the regime referred to in Article 41- bis of the prison order - it concerns, as you know, the convicted for mafia - have been released by simplified procedure, which does not even provide for the report on the danger of such persons and the probability or risk that they, once released, may commit further crimes. They - as I said - have been placed in house detention. There are many cases - the press has taken this into account - I think several dozen. The reason for this is that prison detention could lead to the risk of these inmates taking Covid-19, since they are generally - but not all of them - of a fairly high age. In order to avoid this risk, these people are put in house detention, with a risk that I believe is greater, given that in high-security detention or in 41-a regime - as we know - the prisoners have a very reduced sociality and do not come into contact with the other prisoners, even being in single cells, while in house detention they can clearly come into contact with the family and relatives living together. This situation certainly has very serious consequences - and this is the question that the Brothers of Italy Group asks you - on the use of law enforcement and judicial police forces for the control of highly dangerous persons put in house detention; it involves an organizational increase and the use of means and men in respect of people whose place - in our opinion - must remain the prison, with all the cautions and all the necessary precautions, but must remain the prison. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We therefore ask you to know what measures you have taken to ensure that these dangerous criminals, when they return home, through their relatives do not start again to command the cosche and their affiliates further crimes and criminal activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u5	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the need for urgent extraordinary measures to combat the emergency from Covid-19 has also involved the prison environment, given the concentration in prison institutions of prisoners and prison police personnel. It should be noted that Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020 provides for disciplinary detention in the event that a prison sentence of not more than 18 months remains and that such eventuality is excluded for habitual criminals, professional or by tendency, for prisoners subject to a particular surveillance regime, for those receiving specific disciplinary interventions and for those sentenced for the crimes referred to in Article 4-a of Law No 354, to which are attributable the offences justifying the special detention regime provided for in Article 41-a. In any event, it should be noted that the rules introduced refer the assessment of the exclusion of the application of the detention in all situations where serious reasons are identified to the supervisory magistrate. In addition, house detention must be accompanied by the adoption of electronic control procedures, the so-called electronic bracelets. The institution of home detention is intended, then, to find temporary application from the entry into force of Decree-Law No 18 and until 30 June 2020. Hence, from the framework outlined, it emerges that the measures taken constitute a balance between the safety of citizens and the protection of the health of prisoners and prison staff, reducing crowding in prisons in an epidemic such as the current one. The contract concluded with Fastweb already provides for the availability of 1,200 bracelets per month. With the recent additional act of the Special Commissioner for Emergency Covid-19 Arcuri, we will have, for the months of May and June, an additional surplus of about 1,700 bracelets. From the most eminently application point of view, the distribution between the different institutions of electronic control instruments is established by the DAP Head with the Head of Police, taking into account the crowding indices and concrete health emergencies. Two circulars were also issued by the Department of Public Security, on March 30 and April 7, which provided for operational arrangements that allow the constant monitoring of the subjects involved by the police forces. Finally, the cautions described so far for the granting of the measure of disciplinary detention allow to dispel the doubts envisaged about the possible repercussions on the safety of citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Balboni has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u7	Mr Minister, thank you but I am not entirely satisfied with your reply, first of all because I believe that, even in the case of the crowding of the prison, alternative measures can be found to house detention, since there are many barracks and many unused military hospitals where the criminals in question could be controlled much more effectively than can happen with home detention. Secondly - and this is a very serious fact - prison police officers are much more exposed than mob bosses and it is shameful that we are more concerned about the health of mob bosses than that of prison agents. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Thirdly, Minister, I would like to point out to you that it emerges from press reports that not all of these criminals are put to house detention by means of electronic means, the so-called electronic bracelet. I would point out in particular that, from press reports, the mob boss Rocco Santo Filippone, a criminal who killed two policemen in cold blood, was put under house arrest without even checking the electronic bracelet. These are very serious facts on which I would ask you to go further. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u8	Senator Mirabelli has the right to explain question 3/1507 on the risks of criminal infiltration during measures for economic recovery, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u9	Minister, in recent weeks many sources, different prosecutors of the Republic, anti-mafia associations, associations that fight usury and the Bank of Italy have launched an alarm on the possibility that the mafias exploit this moment of economic crisis produced by coronavirus to infiltrate and assume greater strength in our country. There are real risks, and we know that. Mostly, there is a risk that on the most difficult territories the mafias will implement an alternative assistance system to that of the State. There is a risk that human trafficking will be used in a labour shortage in agricultural land. There is a risk that they will take possession of companies, putting a lot of money - what they own thanks to their illicit trafficking - into the legal economy. There is a risk that they will apply to acquire the contracts of the next restart. I believe that the Government, which has already shown itself to be sensitive on the subject, must say what measures it is putting in place to guard the territory, to control the financial flows, but also to be able to ban the possibility for the mafias to take possession of contracts. A balance must be struck between the need to carry out the works quickly and to do them well, but this cannot be achieved by overturning and deleting the existing rules that - as with the anti-mafia code and the procurement code - continue to guarantee the necessary measures that cannot now be repealed if the mafias are to be prevented from infiltrating procurement. [[Applause from Senator Messina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u10	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the interrogating senators fear that the current health emergency may be an opportunity for enrichment for organised crime. As we know, criminal appetites organize themselves in search of profits and exploit the delicate economic situation, such as the current one, trying to get into the legal economy. In the wake of the epidemic, no such opportunity can be anticipated in the recovery phase, characterised by the re-launch of economic activities and the lack of liquidity and the influx of substantial public funding, both national and European, to support economic recovery. From this point of view, with my own directive issued on 10 April last to all the prefects, I called for an intelligence action on the territory that values, first, the evidence of an info-investigative nature and the ability to analyze the contexts and the criminal phenomena by the police, with the aim of ensuring a resumption of the activities according to the indispensable coordinates of legality. In this context, I have given impetus to the creation, by each prefect, of special management booths at provincial level with the participation and contribution of all the employers', business, financial and credit associations, considering that this can be a useful element of sharing all the elements and knowledge. The police are committed to intercepting and countering the new dynamics of criminal action, also because of the strong economic vocation of organised crime and its capacity for rapid adaptation to social and productive change. Particular attention is paid to so-called spy crimes, indicators of criminal infiltration, including mafia, in economic and financial folds, including extortive activity, wear and money laundering. As part of the prevention activity, I highlight the use of the resources allocated by the National Operational Programme (NOP) legality and in particular 14,600,000 euros are intended for the implementation of the project "Developed systems for the monitoring and aggression of illicit assets ", which includes the implementation of an information system aimed at strengthening the system of supervision, monitoring and aggression of illicit assets. I also believe that the large amount of financial intervention makes it necessary to strike a balance between the timeliness of the disbursements, as the honourable Member said, which is fundamental at this emergency stage, and the related controls - in my view - indispensable. It is not by chance that a protocol of understanding with Sace SpA for the release of the anti-mafia documentation to the recipients of financing, assisted by a public guarantee, is soon to be finalised. I believe it is necessary to identify a high level of legal protection in public disbursements, also avoiding a distorted use of resources, which will be provided in support of economic activities particularly affected by emerging measures. This, of course, can only be achieved with respect for the anti-mafia legal framework. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Mirabelli to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u12	I thank the Minister and I am fully satisfied with the answer and the newness he has introduced in it. From the point of view of the method, I think it is very important, at this stage, to involve all stakeholders in the fight against mafias. So the tables are fine together with the entrepreneurial forces and all those subjects who can help fight and fight mafia infiltrations. The measures, which have now been announced, are also very good to ensure that financial flows are not polluted by money recycled by the mafias.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u13	Senator Candiani has the right to explain the question 3-01502 on the public order consequences of non-compliance with the closing order of the ports, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u14	Minister, in the current situation due to coronavirus, there have also been a number of inconsistencies and inconsistencies in government actions, especially in those in place in the field of security management. We found ourselves faced with the signing, on his part and other Ministers, of a provision that declares unsafe the ports of our Country and, in the same days, we find ourselves with dozens and dozens of immigrants smuggled into the Country, in the Sicilian territory and of the peninsula, from the scafisti and therefore to disposition of the mafias. There have even been cases - as has happened in recent days - of coronary virus infected. Faced with this we wonder what is really the management of immigration, once we enter our national territory and, above all, what are the actions that are being put in place to counter the traffic of people who are behind us. We know that there are mafias and illegal trafficking behind us, but we also know that, at the moment, the people we have closed in the house are worried, because illegal immigrants are going around the countries, and - as has happened in recent days - they have landed without even the authorities knowing it and without being subjected to any health control. In the face of all this we wonder what the country's management policy is. What policy are the Minister and the Government guaranteeing the safety of citizens, especially with regard to infection, at this time? Again: we wonder if it is really in the interest of the government - as Minister Bellanova said - to regularize 600,000 illegal immigrants. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Group]] Italians cannot be replaced by illegal immigrants to carry out a simple wage reduction operation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] This is unacceptable. Then there is the very serious fact regarding the release of the last hours and days past. In the measures that the Government is taking, there are serious inconsistencies. Create confusion between the citizens and contradiction: tell the citizens to lock themselves in the house and then open the doors of the jails; tell the citizens to take all the actions they need to protect themselves and protect others with respect to the contagion and then land on the national territory clandestine citizens of other countries without even subjecting them to a medical prophylaxis. In the face of all this, we are very concerned and are determined to demand clarity from the Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups and Senator La Russa]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u15	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate to point out that all the structures of the Ministry of the Interior, from the beginning of the epidemic, have applied the procedures followed for health screening on time and regularly. From the first landing in the period of the Covid-19 emergency, preventive surveillance measures of a minimum duration of 14 days have been applied for all migrants landed. I signal, in any case, how among all the people disembarked only one was positive at the Covid-19 and is part of the disembarkation of 67 migrants occurred independently in Lampedusa. It is a boy of Egyptian nationality who turned out to be positive at the buffer and was placed in isolation, where he is currently. The subject is in good condition and no hospitalization was necessary. As reported in the question, with interministerial decree of 7 April last, it is established, for the whole period of duration of the national health emergency, that the Italian ports did not have the requirements for the classification of safe port and this in relation to the situation of emergency connected to the diffusion of the virus; situation that does not make possible to the state assure the availability of safe places without compromising the functionality of the sanitary structures, logistic and safety dedicated to the containment of the contagion. I must point out that since April 7 no authorization has been given to enter the port for the ships that have migrant relief, so much so that the ships of the two NGOs, Alan Kurdistan and Aita Mari, have been placed in rada following an intervention of the Red Cross that, as subject actuator, appointed by decree of the head of the Civil Protection, has transported all the migrants rescued on the ship Rubattino for the intended period of quarantine. As for migrants who reach our coasts independently - a phenomenon that has always existed, it is not these days - quarantine is arranged once they have been traced. With various circulars the Ministry has urged the managing bodies of reception facilities, first and second level, and detention centers to respect the provisions for the containment of the epidemic. It has been asked to provide adequate information to migrants on the behaviour to be followed, both through cultural mediators and through written information. I shall conclude with reference to the possibility of regularising migrants, which the honourable Member mentioned, by stating that on this point there is an evaluation with the Ministers for Agriculture and Labour concerning the situations of working in black which may concern both Italian citizens and foreign citizens. In fact, the question arises from the need to find a specific solution to the problems that are emerging in the agriculture sector, as in the fisheries sector, in order to address the shortcomings of workers in those areas, without prejudice to Italian production. This is a problem that is raised by several sectors concerned, addressed by retracing similar solutions identified in recent years that can be a factor of greater guarantee of public safety. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Candiani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u17	You are very original, Minister, because what happens in Italy does not happen in any other European country. In other European countries, borders are closed and citizens are protected. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] This is where infected foreigners get in and then you also ask who they came in contact with. You are the government that, unlike other countries, puts citizens in their homes and opens the jails. President, I read you a list that must make you think a lot about what kind of actions they are putting in the so-called Italian decree cure: Francesco Bonura, one of the most influential Mafia bosses accused in the first Mafia trial against ours and condemned definitively for Mafia association at twenty-three years; Leoluca Bagarella, a mafioso sentenced to life imprisonment, responsible for some of the most serious events and the worst murders of ours, the massacres of Capaci and the killing of little Giuseppe Di Matteo; Pippo Calò, mafioso sentenced to life imprisonment for the murders of Piersanti Mattarella, Pio La Torre, Michele Reina, Carlo Alberto dalla Chiesa, Boris Giuliano, Paolo Giaccone, Antonio Scopelliti, Cesare Terranova and for the massacres of Capaci; Benedetto Capizzi; Antonino Cinà; Pasquale Condello; Raffaele Cutolo and I could continue for 74 other serious Mafia life-lovers who, with the coronavirus, are taking the freedom that you give them and that instead we do not want, because the Mafia must stay in jail. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] This is what you think as a cure for Italy: let the illegals enter our country and get the life-and-mafia people out of jail. We will not give you any rest on this. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u18	Senator Gasparri has the right to explain question 3-01500 on the application of measures that limit the possibility of getting away from home, for three minutes. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, let's get Senator Gasparri in here.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u19	Minister, the question by Forza Italia concerns issues of mobility on the ground, which have often been the subject of overlapping and sometimes contradictory indications. Firstly, we call on the Government to confront Parliament and stop the abuse of decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers which have created a confusion and centralization of powers by the Government. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We have also raised this problem because technology - we are talking about apps to control the situation - will not be able to take such measures without a vote by the sovereign Parliament which must monitor, verify and decide. If they are useful for the health of the citizens, we will carefully evaluate them. As far as mobility is concerned, we are therefore asking for a point of view. I also want to thank all the staff of the police forces, local police, the army and the armed forces who have guaranteed controls and security. And I must say that it took the commitment of the Forza Italia Group to spend more money on overtime and to equal the commitment of the armed forces to that of the police. Without the army, even coffins would not have been transported to Lombardy. We must remember the people in uniform even when this emergency has stopped. We therefore call for clarification on mobility, on the directives that are given and on the methods to be followed, on the proximity of housing and on children. We want there to be safety and health rules. We want not chaos, but greater transparency and clarity because otherwise we arrive at the paradox for which extra-EU citizens will circulate more than others. And also on the regularization that you have announced, be careful, Minister, as places like Borgo Mezzanone need evictions and not sanatories that could increase chaos and confusion. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u20	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the general level, I would like to point out that since the beginning of the health emergency, the Ministry of the Interior has adopted a number of acts of direction precisely in order to coordinate interventions on the ground and to ensure a uniform application of measures to control the epidemic. It is a complex work that has dealt with several cases, however waiting for the atypicality of the situation. With the circular of 31 March last, to which the honourable Members refer, it was intended to provide clarification on certain application profiles concerning the prohibition of the assembly and movement of persons. It was specified, among other things, that the possibility of dating with minor children was allowed to one parent only for short journeys close to his or her home, when traveling motivated by situations of need or health. With regard to motor activity, it has been clarified that, subject to the limitations indicated, this is allowed near the house with the exclusion of all forms of recreational or recreational outdoor activities and that access to parks, villas, play areas and public gardens continues to be prohibited. The numerous circulars, directives and explanatory notes have been transmitted to all prefectures, to all offices on the territory and have been published on the institutional sites. It was recommended that prefects communicate information to mayors, taking into account the control functions performed by municipal police, and to chambers of commerce for information of associations and organisations representing the economic categories concerned. The monitoring of the sanctioning activity has revealed that, in the face of the checks carried out (about 9 million people) and the number of established (about 330,000), only a very limited number of cases has evidenced of the application criticalities for which it was then carried out in the process of self-protection. I will end by thanking the police. I too want to stress their commitment to a widespread verification activity, but also to highlight how each of us in this delicate phase can contribute to achieving, through our own behavior, the conditions to get out of this emergency, to return to a normal life in terms of both work and social life. The important work of the police forces has also been done by local police and the soldiers of safe roads, to which my thanks also go.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u22	Senator Gasparri has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u23	Mr Minister, very briefly, in view of the greater reopenings and possibilities that we all hope will be possible from May, we ask the Government for clear and homogeneous directives, because also on minors, on whether they can be accompanied in motor activities or of necessity, the circulars have often said different things. As far as the possible use of apps is concerned, we ask that we move on from Parliament, that transparent procedures be adopted and that there be certainty that data will be destroyed at later stages. We call for the decision, which the Senate has taken on an agenda, to be implemented to equate the commitment of the armed forces with that of the police. All their members must be thanked, together with those of the fire department and local police, for extraordinary and economic treatments. And I remember the commitment that was voted on in the Budget Committee at the Senate of the Republic. I would like to say to everyone that we must remember the people in uniform even when this emergency is over, because then military health has been invoked, the field hospitals have been built, but then they have been dismantled in the years garrisons and appropriations for the armed forces and the security and defence sector; of this we will have to remember. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Finally, with regard to circulation, with regard to sanatories and regularizations, we are absolutely opposed. Rather, make vouchers for Italians to work in the agricultural sector, or send to work those who receive the income of citizenship in exchange for nothing, and not regularized illegals. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u24	Senator De Falco has the faculty to illustrate the question 3-01501 on the criticalities connected to the declaration of "non security" of the Italian ports, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u25	Minister, the subject of the question is the interministerial decree of 7 April 2020 declaring the ports of the Republic unsafe (unsafe) due to the current emergency. The measure, however, in reality, which is not even published and, therefore, is not knowable, fails to achieve the objective it aims to achieve. Preliminarily, a ship has the right to enter a port if it is in serious difficulty or if the persons on board are in difficulty due to force majeure or state of necessity (Convention of 1923 on the regime of the ports). Second point: for possible asylum seekers on board ships in inland waters, the coastal state has full jurisdiction and must therefore verify the use - individually - of the requirements; otherwise, this is illegal refusal. Thirdly, to deny automatically - I stress - the right of passage to all ships with certain conditions is unlawful, because international conventions establish this option in relation to specific reasons for prejudice that lead the ship to the coastal community. In this case, refusal, i.e. prohibition, is automatic and, therefore, unlawful. Fourth point: the entry into the territorial sea linked to the search and rescue activity is, as such, legitimate (according to Article 98 of the Unclos Convention of Montego Bay) and cannot be considered as an activity carried out in violation of national law of immigration that of the ship that has the objective to land shipwrecked. It can't be illegal. The decree operates an erroneous appeal and a serious logical-juridical twist of the norms of the International Conventions Unclos and SAR, because it establishes that the entry of a ship must be limited not because the ship represents a prejudice (ex Article 19 of the Convention Unclos), but because the coastal community would be dangerous for the ship. Here's the twist, the nonsense. The decree is therefore paradoxical and cannot prevent the entry of rescue ships. However, it can put in check the entire portualità because, assuming that the ports are not safe places in relation to the pandemic, the existence of a potential danger for the marine ones however present in port is logically affirmed. In fact, the Spanish newspapers have spread the news that the Italian ports are probably closed to the foreign ships until 31 July. Moreover, the shipwrecks on another ship do not serve absolutely nothing: it is a pure and simple hypocrisy, because however they are in inland waters on Italian ships totally subject to national jurisdiction: therefore, they are in Italy. This is therefore an unmotivated increase in spending on taxpayers. If we consider then - as has just been said by Minister Lamorgese - that there is no case of positivity on NGO ships - there is only one of an Egyptian on autonomous landing, ghost - we must also understand that all the provision does not make any sense. I ask the Minister in address if he considers that the decision taken - declaring Italian ports unsafe - has as a logical and legal consequence that the Italian structures cannot be climbed by foreign ships. Then I ask, at this point, what is the point of the unnecessary transhipment of the shipwrecked to another ship. It is useless, expensive and illegal. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u26	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u27	Mr President, esteemed senators, the progressive spread of the Covid-19 virus has led to the de facto suspension of all instruments aimed at orderly and shared management of migration at European level. Therefore, it was necessary to adopt urgent national measures consistent with the position taken by Italy in the Community and with the measures to prevent and contain the pandemic implemented on national territory. Between these I remember that previews the suspension of the services of cruise from the ships flying Italian flag and, already from 19 March, the prohibition of entry in the Italian ports of the ships flying foreign flag employed in the same services. In this context, the Decree of 7 April 2020, which reaffirmed some of the fundamental principles of the Hamburg Convention of 1979 on Research and Rescue at Sea, is inserted. The first is that of the indispensable cooperation between the signatory States of the Convention, which is also extrinsic through the obligation of the flag States of the relief units themselves to take responsibility for the assistance and placement of migrants, including for the identification of a safe landing place. The second principle is that of identifying the place of safety, as a place where the safety of persons rescued at sea is ensured and where the primary needs, including food, shelter and health needs, can be met. In application of these principles and therefore in a totally legitimate way, the interministerial decree qualifies the emergency connected to the diffusion of the coronavirus as a situation that does not make it possible to ensure the availability of such safe places on Italian territory without compromising the functionality of the national sanitary, logistic and safety structures dedicated to the containment of the virus; this limited to cases of search and rescue in which the Italian State has not played any role of coordination of the relief operations and therefore has not assumed any of the obligations that this coordination imposes on it. At the same time, reference has been made to the responsibility of the flag State of the rescue unit, which, in the name of the already mentioned principle of cooperation provided for by the SAR Convention, is called upon to cooperate with Italy to find a shared solution in the management of shipwrecks. Where, instead, the rescue takes place in the Italian SAR area with the help of national naval units, the obligation of Italy, even in the current emergency phase, remains firm, to take charge of the identification of every appropriate solution for the salvation of the shipwrecked and the identification of suitable places of disembarkation and reception. The decree of the Head of Civil Protection No 1287 of 12 April has identified the organizational measures and procedures to provide health care to persons rescued at sea or arrived on the national territory following autonomous landings, guaranteeing them also a place to spend the quarantine provided for by our regulations. In view of the need to address the emergency represented by the rescue operation of the ship Alan Kurdistan (a German NGO) outside the Italian SAR area, at my request, by decree of 16 April, the head of the Civil Protection has identified, using the agreements already stipulated by the MIT, a naval unit immediately usable for the housing and health surveillance needs of persons rescued by the NGO, naming the Italian Red Cross as the subject to implement it. Consequently, the 146 migrants on board the Alan Kurdistan ship were transferred, with the help of the patrol boats of the Coast Guard, on board the ferry Rubattino, currently on the coast of Palermo, for the carrying out of the planned quarantine period, which - I remember - is a preventive measure applied to all Italian citizens and to persons resident in Italy, even if coming from abroad. Identical initiative has been assumed towards the 34 migrants rescued from the Spanish ship Aita Mari, also hosted on board the Rubattino. I conclude by pointing out that, even in the emerging context determined by coronavirus and despite the difficulties that have arisen in an uneven way throughout the national territory, the Government has never failed to fulfil its obligations, nor to the obligations of solidarity and rescue, and will continue to put in place all the necessary initiatives to safeguard the human lives and the safety of the people, whether they are migrants rescued at sea or persons who are suffering from coronavirus, while reaffirming, in this very authoritative headquarters, to the flag States of the naval units that operate interventions in the sea the inevitable need for a specific assumption of co-responsibility. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Falco to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u28	Mr Minister, in thanking you, however, I must say that I am totally dissatisfied with your speech, because it is wrong, as is the wrong decree. There are two aspects: technical and political. The technical aspect is simply the following, Minister: that decree is wrong, because it also makes erroneous references. It is not the SAR Convention that is at stake at all, but it is Article 98 of UNCLOS, namely the Montego Bay Convention, as I said earlier. With regard to the second aspect, the responsibility of the flag State does not exist; you have invented it. The responsibility lies with the State which has responsibility for the SAR zone or the State and the rescue centre which has received news. These elements lay down responsibilities. There is no responsibility of the flag State, because otherwise the SAR Convention would not make sense. Moreover, I think I understand clearly something about the promises, the assumption of responsibility made in this House by Professor Conte when he came to ask for confidence, for discontinuity with previous policy and to want to change it in the sense indicated by the remarks made by the President of the Republic; Well, those assumption of responsibility, on which you also asked for my trust, are totally disregarded and are proceeding in the opposite direction. I will therefore draw the political consequences of this terrible position of yours, which is, Minister, gravely mistaken, torches the regulations and, moreover, makes Italy an uncivilised country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u29	Senator Vono has the right to explain the question 3-01509 on the initiatives for the reopening of construction sites relating to the road network and school construction, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u30	Minister, I would like to point out that, despite the numerous reports of negligence applied during the maintenance of the bridge between Albiano and Caprigliola, between Tuscany and Liguria, in the morning of April 8, as many as 258 meters of bridge from 10 meters of height on the underlying river Magra have collapsed, a tragedy touched only thanks to the restrictions of displacement imposed by the emergency Covid. And to think that we are still waiting for the start of the procurement procedure for the realization of the bridge between Ceparano and Santo Stefano, financed by the Renzi Government. In Italy there are too many works whose works proceed slowly. I am talking, Minister, of works that can immediately be renovated, already financed and authorized for a total value of about 10 billion euros, with high potential for occupations, such as the highway 106 jonica, the completion of the Grosseto-Siena, the crossroads of the Serre, the variant of San Donà di Piave, the Palermo-Catania motorway, the strengthening of the Great ring road of Rome, and I could continue. They are works on which, in this moment of closure or reduction of activities and transports, they could immediately restart those indispensable yards to put into motion the economy of our Country. Let us not forget all the school construction work with resources already available for almost half a billion euros and for which there are still many complaints of dangerous situations coming from all over the country. As you can see, Minister, there are a lot of firm works in every part of Italy, so we, as a majority together with you, are obliged to give concrete answers to the citizens. The infrastructure sector must again be of central importance in economic and employment terms, which is why it is necessary to immediately de-bureaucratic procedures without always having to resort to emergencies. Italy Viva has been repeating this for a long time, also proposing the appointment of ad hoc commissioners, as it seems that the Government also wants to do for the reconstruction of the bridge of Albiano. Given this, I would like to know the initiatives of your Ministry of Planning of a national plan for the immediate opening of the yards; if you have prepared or intend to prepare, in order to cope with the emergency, a plan of priority interventions in conjunction with the head of the Civil Protection Department, the competent ministries and perhaps even with the competent parliamentary committees; if you intend, in agreement with the Minister of Education, to restore a mission structure for the redevelopment of the school building, appointing commissioners for simplification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the very first day, I have expressly instructed the offices to carry out the reconnaissance of all public works planned and possibly blocked and to identify all the initiatives necessary to overcome the problems which had prevented them from starting. At the date of 21 April 2020 some €11 billion were made fully usable, of which €4.5 billion related to public works, including €1.3 billion for the 106 Ionian State Road and the 4-wage State Road, which had been expected for a long time, and over 6.5 billion have been transferred to local authorities for the related sector programmes of rapid mass transport, renewal of bus parks, maintenance of provincial roads (for 995 million), safety of the railways not interconnected to local authorities. This is, therefore, a total of 11 billion. With regard to routine and extraordinary maintenance of roads, highways, bridges, viaducts and tunnels, they continued, in some cases with delays, even during the weeks of lockdown. For this reason the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has signed with the trade unions, with the large contracting stations and the employers' associations the guidelines for safety in the yards in the middle of March. As part of the update of the 2018-2019 program contract between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and ANAS being approved, 2.650 billion were allocated for maintenance on bridges and viaducts managed by ANAS, as well as 641 million, which are added to the 440 million that the Ministry has already allocated, for extraordinary maintenance of provincial roads. In the next decree we will ask Parliament to speed up the procedure for approving this programme contract. In addition, 2.6 billion were transferred to finance the extraordinary maintenance operations of the provincial road network and the metropolitan cities. In the coming days we will send to the approval of the Conference State-Cities and local autonomy the allocation of ulterior 460 million euros for the maintenance of the provincial and municipal roads, resources therefore immediately transferable to the territorial authorities. With regard to safety initiatives, the National Agency for the Safety of Railways and Road and Motorway Infrastructures (ANSFISA) has been provided with both the Staff Regulations and the Administrative Regulations, which are essential to ensure their operation, and recruitment procedures have been initiated. At the same time, the Higher Council for Public Works has adopted guidelines for dynamic monitoring, risk assessment and restoration of bridges and viaducts, which have been awaited for more than a decade. With specific regard to the collapse of the bridge on the river Magra, which connects the village of Santo Stefano Magra with Albiano, along the provincial road 70 - starting from November 2018 state road 330 of Buonviaggio - we immediately set up an inspection commission, chaired by the director of ANSFISA, with the task of ascertaining the causes of the event, and I proposed to the President of the Council of Ministers to appoint the president of the Tuscany Region Enrico Rossi as commissioner for the reconstruction of the bridge. More generally, with regard to the reduction of the time limits for the implementation of public works, I represent that the work of the Committee on the drawing up of a single regulation has basically ended and that we have called for the inclusion in the next decree-law of appropriate measures for simplification and acceleration of expenditure, including the approval of the update and contract of the RFI program and the approval of the update and contract of the ANAS program. As far as school building initiatives are concerned, we are always prepared to identify with the Ministry of Education, which is responsible for this matter, any kind of cooperation to speed up the expenditure on the appropriations envisaged. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Grimani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u32	We would like to thank the Minister for his reply, for which we are satisfied. We believe that the acceleration of the opening of the yards is now a key issue for our economy, especially in a period of great contraction of the demand, which will be even stronger in the coming months, as we can see from the data that emerge also from the Parliamentary Bureau of budget, which estimates a contraction of 15%. It is therefore essential to relaunch public investment, as the Government is clearly doing. We call for a further acceleration so that the resources allocated can be put in place immediately, as has been explained with regard to investment, which amounts to almost 10 billion. We believe that even more work should be done on the simplification of procedures, and we will see the results of the Commission's work. We think it is essential to contract, for example, the whole design phase and I am speaking especially for local authorities who often, before carrying out a project, have three design levels. That, in our view, is a problem. In addition, we consider it essential to contract appeals and appeals times, another crucial problem for public works that often do not leave or stop due to endless appeals or judicial procedures. We also call for the restoration of mission units, which have been important at a decisive stage in the development of this country with regard to safe Italy, Casa Italia and school building. It is particularly important for this latter issue that there is an acceleration, as we could also use the months of forced interruption of lessons. It is essential, therefore, to put all the resources that have already been allocated into place to make them operational.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u33	Senator Dessì has the right to explain the question 3-01508 on the resumption of professional and amateur sports activities, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today is 22 April and more than forty days have passed since those terrible first days of March when everything seemed to fall on us. Over forty days in which all Italian sportsmen, from the very young of the basic sport to football professionals, have given a great proof of responsibility and respect, stopping immediately. Even the simple motor activity in the open air has disappeared from our everyday life, all to avoid gatherings. To overcome this traumatic blockade, the whole sports movement has launched hundreds of beautiful and successful initiatives, useful to encourage training within the domestic walls. I take advantage, personally and on behalf of my Group, to thank all the athletes and enthusiasts who have shown great skill and imagination at this time. But now, Minister, another date is approaching, that of 4 May, which is creating great expectations in the Italian people. We listen daily to so many of our fellow citizens who imagine that day as a return to life, to lost everyday life, to work, to a sociality that has been missing for too long. We live waiting for that day asking ourselves so many questions, with the awareness, acquired through the information of doctors and experts, that unfortunately everything will not be as before. We know that this health emergency, which has not yet been resolved, will give way to other economic, social and psychological problems. For this reason, every now and then, hope and positivity leave room for deep feelings of concern. The world of sport, perhaps more than many others, risks paying a very high price. The obligation of the use of protective devices and above all the maintenance of interpersonal distances, makes immediately unworkable some of the most beautiful and followed sports disciplines: I think of team sports such as football, rugby, basketball and individual sports such as boxing, judo, karate and many others. But the drama that more than five million sports practitioners live is nothing compared to what is currently experiencing a million operators in the sector and 63,000 sports clubs. In the vast majority of cases we are talking about men and women who have practiced sports all their lives, studied and invested their belongings in a world where fatigue is safe but economic returns far less. We are talking about men and women, in most cases very young, who have created associations, made investments in structures of the highest level and given moments of sharing and healthy daily joy to their users who, in many cases, are a weak user of the population. I am also referring, of course, to the world of disability which relies heavily on sport for the recovery of our children, giving them passion, physical strength and inner strength. Unfortunately, we only notice it every four years, when so many of them pride us on the occasion of the Paralympics. To all these people, Minister, we owe a great deal, above all closeness, transparency and sincerity, in the knowledge that each of us is doing everything in our readiness to allow, in the shortest possible time and in compliance with the protocols and in the maximum personal security of each one, the resumption of activities and, if not possible, suitable economic counterparts. That is why I am asking what action has been taken to date, in agreement with the parties concerned, to plan the gradual exit from this stage of quiescence, what are the refreshing forces designed for the immediate and what initiatives are being carried out to relaunch, at the end of the crisis, the whole sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u35	The Minister for Youth Policy and Sport, Mr Spadafora, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is fully aware of the dramatic situation that the honourable Member has described. This awareness is also given to us by a constant confrontation that we have started since the first day with all sports organizations, from CONI, CIP, federations, sports promotion agencies, associated sports disciplines, amateur associations and amateur clubs. Above all, we have opened a privileged channel with the territory for basic sport, to receive from all those who daily live with difficulty the possibility to manage sports centres and activities of suggestions and also have news about what is happening in all Italian regions. The media are mainly concentrated in these hours on football, on the recovery or not of the championships, but we know very well that, although football must be attributed that right value also as an economic company because of the financial flows it produces, sport is not only football and that football is absolutely not only the Serie A. Precisely aware of this, in the first decree-law approved the Government has thought of all that world of sports collaborators, that after this emergency will have to be reorganized and reformed in order to allow them greater protection, that they do not now have and that, because of their peculiarity from a legal-lavoroistic point of view, they could not have access to the funds provided by the other articles of the decree. So we have set up an ad hoc fund to also allow sports staff to have a bonus of 600 euros. I am convinced that in the decree that we are preparing to approve in the Council of Ministers we will find additional resources to allow this bonus not only to have it all the sports collaborators who in March have requested it, regardless of the compensation they have received, whether above or below the 10,000 euros (as has been said at first), but that it can also be extended to all collaborators for the month of April. In recent days I have sent to the CONI and the CIP a letter to ask that all the federations express themselves on the modalities of application of the health protocols in order to be able to safely resume the sporting activities. Next Friday I will receive the results of this work and today I will meet all the representatives of the world of football and the FIGC. All this will allow us to assess, before May 4, whether or not we will be able to reopen and what. But we must be aware that it is necessary to reopen, because sport is important not only as an economic value, but above all as a social value. But we have to do this with absolute respect for everyone's health, so we can gradually think of reopening the whole part about workouts. With regard to the championships and what concerns the outdoor motor activities, so much requested by our citizens, we will evaluate together with the technical-scientific committee and civil protection, aware that this restart must absolutely push, but at the same time it must be protected first, as always and as we are doing in recent weeks, the health of all Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u37	Senator De Lucia may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, your answer has been more comprehensive not only for what you have done, but for what you have told us you will do: not only, therefore, the meetings with all the federations to start with who lives it first person daily and understand what will be the best method to evaluate a recovery of all sports disciplines, but also because you have anticipated that in the next decree you will also be back to work for sports workers, who in these days seem to be beginning to receive 600 euros. It is therefore very important what you have told us today. I know that you have also used the sense of discipline of the world of sport, when you chose to have sportsmen tell you about the various disciplines in order to appease the souls of sports enthusiasts. I know you pushed for a television commercial to be set up, which has been a great success and a great grip, especially on children. Children are probably the most penalized, when they not only have to be part of the group of Italians forced to live in lockdown, but also because they can satisfy little the needs of movement, proper to the young age. Therefore, together with my colleagues from the Movimento 5 Star Group, I am extremely satisfied, not only with your response, but also with your commitment and activity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u39	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u40	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, approved the timetable for next week. Tuesday, April 28, at 15, will be remembered the figure of the former senator for life Emilio Colombo on the occasion of the centenary of birth. Moreover, where amended by the Chamber of Deputies, the Assembly will discuss the decree-law so-called care Italy, already approved by the Senate. The timetable also provides for the joint discussion of the 2020 Economic and Finance Document and the annexed Report on the deviation from the structural policy objective, the presentation of which was announced by the Government. The discussion time, which was about seven hours, was divided between the Groups, on the basis of specific requests. For explanations of final vote, live television is provided. Motions for resolutions on measures must be tabled before the end of the general debate. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government on the Economic and Financial Document will have to be tabled within half an hour after the opinion has been delivered. It is recalled that, for the adoption of the resolution on the Deviation Report, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required. The group leaders also agreed that, on a transitional basis, the interventions at the end of the session would be limited to one representative per group, with the exception of the Movimento 5 Stars, which was given the opportunity to take two interventions. Colleagues, I wouldn't want any gatherings. The quaestor senators have done a great job of trying to keep safe distances and then it happens that there are groups that meet in the center of the hemicycle. It's not okay!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u41	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 21 April 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 30 April 2020: [[Tuesday, April 28, h. 15 - Bill n. 1766-B - Decree-Law n. 18, Enhancement National health service and economic support related emergency coronavirus (approved by the Senate, where amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Joint debate of the Doc. LVII, n. 3 - Document of Economy and Finance 2020 and the annexed Report to the Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243 (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) (where presented in good time) * Wednesday 29 " h. 9.30 Thursday 30 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill no. 1766-B (Decree-Law No. 18, Enhancement National Health Service and economic support related to coronavirus emergency) will be set in relation to transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. * Motions for resolutions Doc. LVII, No 3 (Document of Economy and Finance 2020) and the annexed Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 should be submitted before the conclusion of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government on the 2020 Economic and Financial Document will have to be tabled within half an hour of the opinion being delivered. Time distribution for discussion of bill no. 1766-B (Decree-Law No. 18, Enhancement National Health Service and economic support related to emergency coronavirus) (4 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 2 hours, of which: M5S 26' FI-BP 19' L-SP-PSd'Az 19' PD 14' Mixed 11' FdI 11' IV-PSI 11' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 9' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, No 3 (Document of Economy and Finance 2020) and the annexed Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 4 hours and 50 minutes, of which: M5S 50' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 56' PD 30' Mixed 26' FdI 30' IV-PSI 20' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] The timing breakdown shall take into account specific requests from the Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u44	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, today's news is that eight employees of the Moscati hospital in Avellino are infected by Covid-19. Today! That is very serious news. De Luca has boasted in the transmission of Bruno Vespa of his prevention activity and meanwhile the hospitals of Campania - I am not referring only to the Neapolitan hospitals, on which De Luca focuses his attention - are and continue to be an outbreak of infection. This is because doctors and nurses have been left alone. Eight of them - I repeat: eight! - they're infected. Causes? The information I have, which has been carefully checked, tells me that personal protective equipment is late and that there are no protocols for their proper use. As for the Moscati hospital, it has been gradually organized only in the last few weeks (in April) the separate route for Covid-19 patients from the triage onwards; only one week at Moscati there are arrangements to make swabs for all those who show up at the nosocomium, even the cases not suspected. It's only been a week! De Luca continues to occupy the scene to cover years of responsibility. Some data are needed to assess the efficiency of the management of the President of the Campania Region: in that Region the per capita health expenditure of recent years is very similar to the expenditure per capita of Veneto; yet Campania continues to be at the last places in performance assessments. To date, the movement of the sick from the regions of the South to the North and the leader of this migration is Campania; most of the patients in Campania go to Lombardy. Well, after yesterday's unacceptable attack on Lombard health care, we should think that bell patients are silly, because they obviously turn to the worst health care in this country; the opposite is true. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What happened yesterday is serious. The truth is that De Luca is putting in place initiatives with high media impact to cover his responsibilities. Bell hospitals are outbreaks of infection due to the President's inefficiencies. I appeal to the voters: do not be fooled by propaganda. We need to remove the bell sanity from President De Luca's hands. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u45	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-209.ana.u46	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 28 April, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 10.47 p.m.
