ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u6	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep regret and emotion that I wish to remind you today in this House of Senator Maurizio Pieroni, who left us in the night between Monday and Tuesday, suffering from a serious and unexpected illness. Maurizio Pieroni was City Councillor in his city, Senigallia, in the 1980s in which he gave life to one of the very first Verdi lists. He was elected MEP for the Greens in 1992, and then Senator in 1994, confirmed in 1996, in the 13th legislature, in which he was the Greens' Group leader in this House for five years. I want to remind him right here, among these benches, that they saw him as the protagonist of many initiatives, proposals and battles. His environmental and civil rights commitment inspired his entire parliamentary initiative. I quote here some of the proposals on which he worked very hard to show how wide his ecological culture was and how much he marked all his work. I am thinking, for example, of the proposal to set up a Commission of Inquiry into Corruption; of the rules against discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation; of the reorganisation of banking foundations; of the establishment of a certification system against child labour; of the establishment of the guarantor of animal rights. Standards in favour of computer literacy (think how current they are now for students and workers); for environmental safety; the safety of the city of Falconara Marittima. There are many initiatives that have seen him as the protagonist in this House. Even his commitment to constitutional reforms was always in the name of that ecological culture that was the figure of his political thought and his life, because Maurizio Pieroni was first of all an ecologist. I shared with him - together with Senator Cirinna - many years of green militancy. Maurizio built one of the very first Green lists in Senigallia in the 1980s and thanks also to his intuition and organizational capacity, the green archipelago that was born then - made up of many lists and committees that fought for the defense of their territory, against illegal landfills, against violence against the territory and the landscape - thanks to its intuition, together with many others gave life to the federation of Green lists in Finale Ligure in 1986. Therefore, he was one of the founders of the Greens and this was the characteristic of all his militancy: environmentalist militant and political leader. He was a learned, ironic politician. His ecology has never been trivial or dogmatic. Today, for all of us who often debate in this House, the fight against climate change, global warming, the green economy and the energy transition seem, if not obvious, however, issues we face daily, but in the 1980s being ecologists was almost a rarity. Having the intuition of ecology was of few, of those who had begun to fight on their territory to defend their city and their Regions from the assault of cement, of those who thought that the ecological key was the possibility to transform this country. We had victories together and we also had many defeats. I know that he has also looked at the evolution of ecological culture, always with interest in these years, giving the support as best he could. It was, therefore, important for the federation and for the Green Party, its work and its commitment in many years. He was very attached to the idea of organization from below. We have often discussed ourselves in discussions about the statute, because it was obsessed with the idea of participation from below, of lists from below, of an idea also federated of the political subjectivity green. His disappearance has left us truly dismayed and we want to be close to his loved ones, to the people who have been closest to him in recent years, who have been neither easy nor simple. The eight years he spent in this House, in the Commissions, left a mark, because he was a learned, intelligent and ironic politician. In all these years, he has known how to build bridges and transversality, because his ecology has always aimed at achieving immediate goals, for the good of this country and for the goals that we had set ourselves in all these years. We remember him, therefore, with regret and remember him with pain. I just want to say, once again: thank you, Maurizio, for all the years you've given us. Goodbye, and let the earth be light to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u9	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor because I have now heard Senator De Petris' words in memory of Maurizio Pieroni. I have, in fact, only learned a few hours ago of her disappearance and I want to join in the words of Senator De Petris in her memory, which I think is right, in this House. I want to do it as a Marcher, as he was, and as a Democrat, as in some way he was, as a forerunner of the environmentalist and environmentalist battles, which today are so much a constituent part of the civil and political conscience of the democrats in Italy, in Europe and throughout the world. Pieroni was a precursor, in the eighties, when this civil commitment related to the themes of environmentalism was growing impetuously, meanwhile, in consciences and, then, taking political form in many parts of Europe and also in Italy, with the constitution of the Federation of Greens. He then took political form in the olive tree - I would like to remind him - of which Pieroni was a Member of Parliament. His national battles in Parliament and his civil society battles in the Marches, in his Senigallia, have been remembered today, on a day that will be for Senigallia, for the Marches and certainly for our Parliament of mourning and mourning, as a personality that has certainly been innovative and capable of bringing added value to our political culture. If today there are thousands of young people all over the world demanding a different future, a different world, starting from sustainable development and respect for environmental compatibility, who claim to be able to deliver to the new generations the world, our environmental and landscape heritage, as it has been delivered to us, we also owe it to figures and personalities like that of Maurizio Pieroni, whom I too want to remember. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u12	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, in associating with what Senator De Petris and Senator Verducci have said, I would also like to recall Senator Pieroni, for his extraordinary, intelligent and competent activity when one of the most significant political experiences of recent years was born, the Olive tree. His intelligence, his irony, his ability to transform ideas into political facts will be greatly missed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u13	I join the condolences expressed by Senator De Petris and Senators Verducci and Bressa for the disappearance of Senator Pieroni and I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u14	Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders, meeting yesterday, approved the schedule of proceedings until Thursday 30 July. Today will be the debate on the motions on youth employment and the protection of national artistic heritage. At 12 noon, the President of the Council of Ministers will make information on the outcome of the European Council. Groups will be able to intervene for fifteen minutes, divided by two interventions. Direct television broadcasting is planned. At the end of the report, the sitting will be suspended and resumed at 4.30 p.m. to conclude the discussion of the motions. Tomorrow, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place, with the presence of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport and technological innovation. Next week's schedule foresees, on Wednesday 29 July, the joint discussion of the National Reform Programme 2020 and the report on the deviation from the structural policy objective. The speaking time was allocated for a total of seven hours, excluding explanations of vote. It is recalled that the adoption of the resolution on the so-called deviation requires an absolute majority of the members of the Senate. On Thursday 30 July, the Council's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities will be discussed not to grant permission to proceed for ministerial crimes against the Minister protempore Salvini. To approve the proposal, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required. After the roll-call vote has been taken by simultaneous ballot, the result shall not be announced immediately. Senators who have not taken part in the ballot will be able to communicate their vote to the Secretary Senators, who will keep a note of it in appropriate minutes until the closing of voting operations, at 6 p.m. The question time will also take place at 3 p.m. on Thursday 30 July. The Permanent Commissions are convened for renewal, pursuant to Article 21 (7) of the Regulation, Wednesday, July 29 at the following times: Commissions 1a, 3 a, 5a, 7 a, 9 a, 11 a and 13 a at 7 p.m.; Commissions 2 a, 4 a, 6 a, 8 a, 10a, 12 a and 14 a at 20.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u15	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 21 July 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 30 July: [[Wednesday 22 July h. 9.30 a.m. - Motions for resolutions on: - youth employment - protection of national artistic heritage - - Statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the outcome of the European Council (12 noon) Thursday 23 July h. 15 - Immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151a of the Rules of Procedure]] [[Wednesday 29 July h. 9.30 a.m. - Joint debate: Doc. LVII, No 3, Section III - National Reform Programme 2020 and Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) (where submitted in good time) Thursday 30 July h. 9.30 - Doc. IV- bis, n. 3 - Proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities not to grant permission to proceed for ministerial offences against the Minister protempore Salvini (vote by an absolute majority by electronic procedure and open ballots) * - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (15)]] Motions for resolutions Doc. LVII, No 3, Section III (National Reform Programme 2020) and the Parliament Report prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 should be submitted by the end of the discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government on the National Reform Programme 2020 should be submitted within 30 minutes of the opinion. * After the vote, the votes will remain open until 6 p.m. The Permanent Commissions shall be convened for their renewal on Wednesday 29 July at the following times: Commissions 1a, 3a, 5a, 7a, 9a, 11a, 13a at 19 Commissions 2a, 4a, 6a, 8a, 10a, 12a, 14a at 20.30. Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, No 3, Section III (National Reform Programme 2020) and Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 4' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FI-BP 47' PD 35' Mixed 29' IV-PSI 27' FdI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u18	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I will not make any particular objection to the issue of the timetable, except for an alternative proposal on what we asked for yesterday at the Conference of Leaders: because next week there would be room for it, since it was not scheduled for the sitting of the House on Tuesday, we asked for the possibility of bringing to the Chamber some draft laws that have already come out of their respective Commissions. The first measure concerns the famous issue of the municipalities of Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo and I am also somewhat ashamed to make such a proposal and we should all be ashamed because it has been fired by the Commission for a year and the House has not yet been able to examine it. [[Applause.]] And then we stand here and say that there is no room for legislative initiative and only decrees are made, because there is an emergency. Okay. Then there is the provision relating to the destination of 5 per thousand to the Finance Guard, the State Police, the Carabinieri's weapon, the National Firefighter's Corps (Act of Senate 1443), also fired by the Commission on June 19. Then there is another measure, the Senate Act 1686, which concerns the establishment of National Day in memory of the victims of judicial errors, also dismissed by the Commission. Now I do not ask for the calendarization of all three, because I understand that it is difficult to think that on Tuesday, which is free, we can examine everyone, but at least that relating to the establishment of the national day in memory of the victims of judicial errors, in our opinion, could be scheduled on Tuesday next, with the beginning of work at 16.30. This is our proposal, without any particular controversy or political issues. Let us remember, as we said at the Conference of the Leaders on stimulus arrived by the colleagues of Forza Italia and of Brothers of Italy, that, since next week we will vote on the budgetary deviation and since we are always reproached for the fact that we do not want to do any kind of collaboration with the Government, before presenting a new deviation that, according to the newspaper, will be about 20-25 billion, a political confrontation between majority and opposition would have been corrected, at least to understand how the Government and the majority intend to invest these sums and above all for what they serve. [[Applause]] Only if there is this collaboration, this confrontation, at least we can reason; instead we say - always in words - that we want the collaboration of the opposition, but then, in fact, unfortunately, we notice, as we saw yesterday from the Conference of the Leaders, that in reality the Government practically does its own and is absolutely not interested in what the opposition thinks. It was right to say it out of duty to report, but the proposal to amend the timetable is that next Tuesday at 4.30 p.m. we discuss the measure relating to the institution of the National Day dedicated to victims of judicial errors [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u21	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I agree with the proposals for changing the timetable put forward by President Romeo and we will support them. I would remind you that I formally proposed at yesterday's Conference of Group Leaders that, before the budget deviation was examined, there should be a meeting at which the Government, in particular the President-in-Office of the Council, who has withdrawn from the European Summit, will explain to us its lines, not only with regard to the use of resources resulting from the further deviation that will take place, but also with regard to what we will shortly be talking about, that is to say, these European funds in various ways. This is because it is a very important step; he himself and the majority have argued that we are at a fundamental and very important moment for our future, so we consider it appropriate to have clear guidelines and guidelines from the government. Therefore, the proposal of the Forza Italia Group is that, prior to the examination of the proposal for a deviation from the balance of the budget, the communications of the President of the Council, during which, of course, motions for resolutions may be tabled, should be made on the guidelines of the government's economic policy. So if the vote on Wednesday's deviation is maintained, we propose that these communications be made on Tuesday morning, before the points requested by President Romeo, or that we take Wednesday and then move the examination of the budgetary deviation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u24	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking justly to leave a voice on the part of the majority in relation to the statements made by the previous Senators Romeo and Malan. The schedule for next week's work (we have also established this week's schedule) is quite dense. Senator Romeo proposed that the Assembly examine some draft laws, including the one on the establishment of National Day in memory of victims of judicial errors. Senator Romeo, I have also made a request for other bills, but above all to speed up the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Before we talk about judicial errors, we leave - and we agree - that justice also takes its course, examining the requests that lie at the Council of Authorizations. [[Applause]] On the other hand, with regard to the draft laws, there is, for example, always in the area of justice, the question of the fearful quarrel and there is also a draft law of opposition's initiative on the question of defamation waiting to be examined. A comprehensive reasoning has been made, so some draft legislation, although ready for the Commission, has not yet been devoted to the examination of the Assembly, because the timetable is still rich. The theme of deviation is very important. There is the theme of the simplification decree on which the Commissions are working. Senator Malan is asking President Conte to come to the Senate next week. We can question him every day if we want to, but it seems to me that much too much, since, among other things, the President will come today - correctly, in our opinion - to report on the outcome of what, even if many will be annoying, is a success for the whole country, and we will talk about it. [[Applause]] But that is not enough for you and you ask that you report not only on what happened but also, next week, on what you will do with the funds that will be distributed. That's too much. The exploitation also of a program that we have given ourselves - Senator Romeo acknowledged it too - unanimously, if it were not for the question of the bill that he asked to schedule, it is quite out of place. I say this, Mr President, to leave a record of what happened at the Conference of Leaders in relation to the timetable. There was no prevarication against the opposition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u27	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, of course I attended the Conference of Leaders and listened to Senator Romeo's grievances. We have asked for sufficient time to deal with Senator Salvini's question. An acceleration of the times - in our opinion - was inappropriate as well as inconvenient from the political point of view, because it is however a matter of discussing a very delicate issue that concerns the political activity and the freedom of expression, thought and action of a Minister of the Republic, which takes more time not to be postponed to infinity, but to be examined. I also repeat here in this House what I said at the Conference of Heads of Group about the budgetary deviation. Minister D'Incà yesterday reported - which we had also read in the newspapers - that the government intends to propose a quantifiable deviation at a point of GDP or perhaps something more, equivalent to 15-20 billion euros. We, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have always voted for deviations; we know that they need a qualified majority; we have guaranteed our vote, which has been decisive in the past; we have voted in a closed box, and then we have given the government the task of distributing resources. The balance of this act of confidence is extremely negative for us. So this time we simply ask the government and the majority to tell us first how they intend to use the 15-20 billion deviation that the Senate and the House of Deputies will have to vote from here a few days away. We don't think it's a strange, extravagant or lunar request. It seems to us a demand for responsibility, for sharing responsibility at a dramatic time for the country's life. The President-in-Office of the Council has often accused us of not wanting to talk to him. We reverse this logic: we offer him the opportunity to dialogue on the deviation, on the assumed figures. We simply want to know at least the macro-voices on which the Government intends to act to spend the 20 billion or as many as they will be, which will eventually make the overall deviation from the plans to the Government for about 100 billion euros. Ours, therefore, is a political act. The answers cannot be regulatory, as we heard yesterday from the Minister, and we expect a political response. Since pauca is intelligent, we await from the government, the majority, from a minister, an answer on this simple, clear and transparent request. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u28	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, presented by Senator Romeo, to include, Tuesday next week, the examination of some draft laws, in particular that on the establishment of the National Day in memory of the victims of judicial errors. It's not approved. Retest has been requested. I order the doors closed, even those of the grandstands. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's work, presented by Senators Malan, Romeo and Ciriani, to include, before the discussion of the report on the deviation of the structural programmatic objective, the Government's communications on economic policies and the use of the funds that will be distributed. It's not approved. Retest has been requested. I order the doors closed, even those of the grandstands. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u29	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00254 (text 2), tabled by Senator Parente and other Senators, 1-00260, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, 1-00268, tabled by Senator Nisini and other Senators, and 1-00273, presented by Senator Bernini and other Senators, on youth employment. I call the Senator Parente to explain motion 254 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u30	Mr President, this morning we have to approach the debate on the motions on youth employment with a premise: the work of young people is our present, we do not have to wait for the future. And we must also put it in place, the next day the Brussels Agreement, which is a very important result for Italy and for Europe as a whole. At a time of serious health and economic crisis, Europe demonstrates, despite the differences we have been following in recent days, its supportive face of support and aid for the blackest crisis since the post-war period, leaving even a glimpse of an embryo from the federal budget of the Union. And when resources are lurking, it's politics. (at 10.15 a.m.) So, a lot of resources will come. Let us not worry about the constraints and controls - I believe that the confrontation between majority and opposition in this Parliament in Italy must go in this direction - but let us concentrate on the opportunities that resources bring with them. Our country system must demonstrate, first of all to itself, to its citizens and then to the European Community, that it intends to rise again, placing at the centre of growth, education, health and work. It is within the framework of the post-Brussels agreement that our policies need to be refocused in order to take root in a renewed European path. The Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council "Support for youth employment - A bridge to work for the next generation" of 1 July 2020 was anticipating the Agreement these days. But in order to establish our policies well, quickly and without contradictions, the work of young people must be placed within a horizon of meaning. If work is a predominant part of human life, an identity of ours that defines us as people, this anthropological condition is even more truthful for young people, who must build their future in the awareness that work changes reality, creates new ideas, produces and transforms people. Work is the relationship of others with others, it is service, it has a social impact, it changes the world, it changes it from inside and, if it is done well, it changes it for the better. That is why we say: work and less subsidies. For the love of Italy and our children, we propose to commit ourselves to twelve priorities. The first is to implement a large industrial investment plan on digital and the transition to the green economy. Alongside this plan, we must put forward a plan for the training, guidance and enhancement of young people's skills and youth employment. The Government and the Undersecretary here know that we must make this plan, otherwise we do not take care of ourselves and do not use the resources of the European Union. The second point, on which the Government is already working, is to have a more organic discipline of the dual system between training and work. The third point, which is particularly close to my heart, is to set up a plan for the integration of digital as teaching in schools, because we must have the ability to intercept a new minded form of generations and give them the tools and the ability to discern for a new world. As for the question of the university - we will return to these elements - this year we will probably lose many registrations, because there are families that cannot pay the fees. We must therefore have a very concrete plan - more than we are doing - on the right to study and the reduction of tuition fees. We need to increase the technical colleges (ITS), but it is not enough; at the same time we must also provide training plans, with experience of training bodies that carry out short vocational courses (vocional master). There are experiences on this point, in direct connection with companies. Think about how many profiles you need: wind and photovoltaic plant maintainers, software and app developers, data analysts, operators and nurses 4.0. We need these skills at the intersection with companies. We also call for the strengthening of expansive social shock absorbers. The government has announced a reform, since we cannot move forward with the integration fund as we have known it. Social shock absorbers must have three issues in themselves: accompaniment to retirement, training plan and generational replacement. The Government is also committed to assessing the possibility of making civil service compulsory: during the Covid emergency we understood that we need solidarity and social cohesion. Our young people must be educated and have the opportunity to engage in civil service operations. We also need to invest in young professionals: we must not allow young professionals to go abroad as well because they may have pay and exploitation problems here in Italy. Young professionals must be supported and helped. There is also to be strengthened what the Government is already doing to define organic legislation to protect new types of work, a sort of statute for the common rights of new jobs. At the same time, there is a project for youth entrepreneurship, including social entrepreneurship: there are so many experiences around and policy needs to support them. Finally, in the last two points of the device, there is the commitment to the Government to facilitate the parliamentary path for a law on equal pay, because the energy of women must be absolutely valued: we cannot afford to lose it because of the large wage gap in Italy. The Commission is also committed to introducing specific measures to support young people in the field of research: in the face of the great brain drain we have, we need to make a strategic plan for young researchers. I close by saying that last night I was rereading a few words by Tina Anselmi, who said that in particular moments Parliament, in the years before ours, had the courage to stop watches in order to achieve solutions, as in the case of the maternity law. We think that with these motions we will soon have to stop the clocks of the institutions for the good of the country, for a just economic and social system, that puts the work of young people at the centre. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u31	I call Senator Garnero Santanche to explain motion 260.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u32	Mr President, the Constitutional Charter recognises work as the fundamental principle of the Italian Republic; in particular, through the promotion of work, law and duty, substantial democracy is achieved, based on an idea of equality and freedom. In the vision of the constituent Fathers, a person who does not have work not only cannot aspire to a life worthy for himself, but devoid of his social contribution, which enriches the whole community materially and spiritually. The Republic is not neutral with respect to socio-economic dynamics, but recognizes and promotes the rights of those who work for adequate compensation, social assistance and social security. We all know that the great crisis of the Covid-19 epidemic has created a huge hole in the Italian economy. According to the forecasts we all know, we have a forecast overall decline of 9.5 percent in the current year, and this is the worst result since World War II. A first effect of the pandemic - as we have seen - affects the numbers of the work, which have begun to worsen in a strong way since March, in a spiral that we do not see mention stopping. If we go to analyze, among the workers who have returned to work a little less than 80% is made up of employees, but what worries us is that very few are young people under 30. If we go to analyze the target of the years, we see that 60 percent of those who return are between the ages of forty and sixty, an audience of about 2,5 million people, while the under 30 are just 570,000. This reflects the general figure of youth employment - which we all know - in Italy was already very low, regardless of the outbreak of the epidemic, considering that, at the end of 2019, only 39 percent of our boys under 30 worked, while among the people aged 45 to 54 years the employment rate was 74 percent. This fact tells us a lot about the situation of our young people and I do not open here the debate on the fact that many young people leave Italy because they no longer have a chance of life or hope. In this case it is very difficult for young people to return to work, because they are employed in those sectors that have been particularly affected not only by the economic crisis, but also by the pandemic and the consequent blocking of many activities. We think of tourism, an area of which we know the situation and in which many young people were employed who worked in restaurants, hotels and entertainment. Even if we think about the future, the forecasts are certainly not comforting if we think, after the closure of the redundancies, of how many people can be fired. It is therefore considered not only necessary, but it is necessary to protect youth employment and at the same time to encourage companies to continue their productive activity, keeping the labour force employed intact. We must reward in particular all those virtuous companies that decide not to resort to social shock absorbers and mostly keep their workforce intact. In fact, the integration fund is very good, but we must also think of rewarding actions for those entrepreneurs who still today, despite the dramatic situation, have the courage to keep their workforce intact. We therefore call for the Government to undertake to take measures to enable companies to resume their productive activities, keeping the workforce intact and paying particular attention to the youth workforce - as we have said in the preamble - and to provide for regulatory initiatives aimed at reducing the tax burden on employers who have chosen or chosen not to resort to the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni or to the ordinary allowance to the extent of 80% of the wage integration treatment, which the State would have paid overall to the employees of the beneficiary undertaking in the event that the latter had made general use of social shock absorbers. 10:29 a.m. (Garnero Santanchae followed). We also call for proposals for a reduction of contributions to private employers which, from 1 January of this year until 31 December 2021, maintain at least 80% of the employment level of young workers by 1 February 2020. We propose an incentive in the form of an exemption of 40% of the payment of social security contributions to them, excluding the premiums and contributions due to Inail, for a maximum period of 12 months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u33	I call Senator De Vecchis to explain motion 268.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to bring some data to the attention of this House. Istat reports that, from 2009 to 2018, 320,000 young people aged between twenty and thirty-four have left our country precisely because of the difficulties related to the topic of work. The Leo Moressa Foundation points out that in ten years they have left our nation 500,000 Italians, 50 percent of whom are young. This emigration cost EUR 16 billion, or 1% of GDP, which is a huge and frightening figure. Emigration is due to the employment difficulties of our young people, who in Italy have a negative average of 56%, compared to the European average of 76 percent. The young people are really left behind and we can no longer allow it, also because of the backlash suffered by the INPS coffers, in which no one pays contributions. Income recipients are those who should be supported by the state and, instead, are born at this time, because they have no outlet. According to ANPAL data, only 2% of those who turned to employment centres found work (as a percentage down to 0.1 percent in the Covid period): a total failure. In this regard, we should also open a parenthesis on the management of ANPAL. Italy Viva has also called for the resignation of President Parisi, who has completely failed its policies. So we also reiterate here that we need to review the managers of ANPAL and officially request the resignation of Parisi, and I have asked for those of Tridico of the INPS for the failure of the management of the bodies that preside. INPS and ANPAL failed. We are faced with people who have not really understood the important issue: youth employment. Moreover, I would like to speak - let me say a little - of the invisibles of the world of work, forgotten also in the decrees of the government in office, that is, seasonal and precarious, the fragile part of work; people who have found themselves in economic, social and cultural difficulties. Seasonals define themselves as invisible. All my solidarity and the League go to them. Let's find a solution: just precarious and just with seasonal jobs; let's give them a truly worthy future. The failure of turnover in the public administration has also shown how restrained this government is. And this also involves an ageing of the world of work in public administration. There are no more competitive know-how towards other nations, such as digital. Among other things, I have made a proposal several times in the working committee: let us rewrite the Workers' Statute and write the statute of the digital worker. We also review the rules of smart working, as they do not exist. Everyone is left to themselves: they work H24, but they do not work with this method at all. You have to have the courage to rewrite the rules. I do not want to go too far, because we all know the situation of youth employment or, better, youth unemployment and immigration. We are replacing young Italians with uncontrolled and unqualified immigration, but this is not possible and is no longer tolerable. I therefore end my speech with a small sentence: live the beautiful Italian youth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u35	I call Senator Toffanin to explain motion 273.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I am sorry that the former President of the Commission, the current Minister for Labour, is not here today, because the subject we are dealing with is very sensitive. The serious socio-economic crisis that we are experiencing has further aggravated what has been a scourge of our country for years and for which, already before the emergency Covid, we were at the last places in Europe: unemployment. The bitterest figure is youth unemployment, which the European Commission's recent survey finds to be the highest compared to other countries of the European Union, among other things with a considerable gender disparity. In Europe we are at the last places for youth employment, but we are the first for the number of Neet, with 29.7% compared to a European average of 16.6 percent. The gap between Italy and Europe with regard to early school leaving is very high and worrying: three points above average. In 2018, 598,000 children left school early. These are numbers that are afraid of the serious loss of human and economic resources, but above all of the social distress that the hundreds of thousands of young people who leave school find themselves living. Now there's no more time to waste. The Covid-19 has accelerated a process that has begun towards deflagration. The problem of unemployment among young people can no longer be postponed and must be addressed in all its many aspects, starting from school, which must be able to involve all the young people and follow them in a training course adapted not only to their predispositions, but also to the demands of the labour market. The school must know how to intercept contemporary needs, but above all future professionalism. The government must invest effectively to eliminate the degradation of many areas of our country and allow young people to free themselves from those socio-cultural situations that prevent and impoverish their educational path; to make a profitable use of European funds (the existing European Social Fund and now also the recovery fund), because the resources made available by Europe are there, but it is necessary to be able to intercept them - unfortunately it has not always been so - with projects and reforms to use them. In this regard, we wonder what happened to SURE. It is true that it is a loan, but it would make 20 billion available for social shock absorbers, with the obligation, however, to workers in the Cassa Integrazione to do training, which is very important. ( [[Applause]] ). In fact, even in the face of youth unemployment of 25%, businesses are struggling to find staff with specialised skills. It is therefore necessary to provide guidance and information at school to meet requests from companies seeking highly technological and digital specializations. The study carried out by Unioncamere and the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL), which prepares the employment forecasts for July also in this period of economic crisis, has seen difficulties in finding skilled workers and, in particular, workers and craftsmen in the construction sector (founders, welders, mechanics and assemblers) and technicians, especially IT, health and market relations. It is absurd: today, about 40% of applications for specialised professions are not met, despite the enormous unemployment of young people. The true reform of work goes through training: the school must become a real preparation for the professions, increasing the pathways with cross-cutting skills and guidance and, therefore, the assessment of needs. On the other hand, we must prevent the so-called brain drain, dictated by many reasons, including the non-enhancing of professionalism, low pay, high taxation, the difficult rise in professional levels. The university course must be competitive compared to other European countries, allowing students to follow with a more streamlined timing the practitioners, where necessary, during the study courses; to obtain facilities for those who attend specializations outside the Region, especially for some subjects. Although a further increase in resources to finance the increase in the number of medical-specialistic training contracts is foreseen in the decree, this, however, constitutes an incentive not enough to hold young people in Italy, but only to try to fill the gaps of the National Health System. However, the so-called training funnel remains to be solved, which means that so many young graduates remain in precarious situations, in employment or unemployment. The government must also intervene with shorter-term measures, with measures that make recruitment slim and flexible. In a historical moment, in which, unfortunately, employers lack the possibility to carry out any programming, it is necessary to abolish the causative in fixed-term contracts and not the limited one of the decree to relaunch. This is also why vouchers need to be re-introduced especially in some areas. Policies to increase youth work must take a structural and organic form. It is not enough to provide for a decontribution for the recruitment of young people under 35 each year. The measures must be able to be renewed automatically every year and must also be applicable to fixed-term contracts. It is not just us who are asking for this; the Youth National Council has also asked us to do so, because then, perhaps, they can be converted into permanent contracts. Young entrepreneurs need measures to support them, the introduction of forms of full tax relief in favour of innovative start-ups, the exemption for the first years of tax activity for the start-up of new businesses by the under 30 and the conclusion of a special agreement with professional bodies. Certain and continuous rules: certainty must be given to both companies and employees. We cannot give rules that are constantly being changed, pained by the loss of confidence by Italian entrepreneurs and the flight by foreign investors. Young people more than ever need certainties for their future, and if they don't find them here, more and more will look for them elsewhere. It is a phenomenon, this, which must be limited as soon as possible. On the other hand, the decline in the birth rate and the emigration of so many young people abroad will lead to a very serious occupational and social security gap. Citizenship income failed. The welfare measures must be replaced immediately by investment in labour and in support of workers and workers who are often - too often - in difficulty in reconciling work and life. In a historical moment when the social elevator fails, the Government has a duty to engage effectively to allow young Italians to create a future here and not elsewhere, with the appropriate skills, but also with an adequate valorization: a dream that is cut off, however, when one hears demolatory phrases of the entrepreneurial system by some Undersecretaries, and - worse - a dream that breaks in the birth with a Minister of Education who is destroying our school system, pivot of growth not only personal but of the whole country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u37	I declare the debate open. Senator Carbone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u38	Dear President, my fellow Senators, the work of young people must be put on the horizon of meaning. If work is a predominant part of human life, an identity trait that defines us as people, this anthropological condition is even more truthful for young people who have to build their future, in the awareness that work changes reality, creates new ideas, produces, transforms nature and people. Work is related to others, it is service, it has a social impact; it changes the world, it changes it from within and, if it is done well, it changes it for the better. The work marks the existence and, therefore, at the heart of the policies must be work and not subsidies and assistance, especially for the younger generations. The health emergency immediately turned into an economic emergency. All the indicators and forecasts of the institutional observers say that, despite the gradual resumption of economic activity, Italy and the whole world are entering a period of economic recession really very serious and unprecedented. The pandemic in Europe will lead to an increase in the unemployed and, according to a note from the International Labour Organisation, young people have already been hit in an extremely marked proportion. Since the onset of the crisis, one in six has stopped working. Many young people, in fact, work in particularly affected sectors, such as tourism, catering, arts, entertainment, wholesale and retail, while others are trying to enter the labour market right now; now that these sectors are no longer able to take on, at a time when, in general, negative economic prospects prevent new recruitment. Young people will have what is already defined this year as a summer of nothingness, in which they will no longer be able to take advantage of the summer break to accumulate extra-university experience, and will not have the opportunity to improve curricula for entering the labour market. The emergency Covid-19 swept away the time of sowing and led to the suspension or complete cancellation of internships, events and international exchanges. Work-based learning and apprenticeships have been particularly affected, focusing on training and practice and directly linked to the workplace. With the closure of schools and training centres and distance learning, education and training, which usually help to correct the distortions of our society, they have been able to do very little to combat youth poverty and social exclusion. Already before the pandemic Italy suffered particularly from phenomena such as a high rate of youth unemployed and a high number of NEETs (i.e. those young people who are not engaged in either study, work or training) and girls and underpaid boys, at the first job and many brains on the run. In Italy, more than two million NEETs are located, to the extent of 23 percent, between the fifteen and the nineteen years, and 47 percent the inactive young people, in the range between the twenty-five and the twenty-nine years; while the Istat data say that, in 2018, 117,000 Italians have left, of which 30,000 graduates. Those left, then, in the last five years, from 2013 to 2018, are about 200,000. However, it is not possible to look at young people as a weak group, but it is necessary to put the future in their hands, with appropriate policies. In order to do all this, one must first consider the differences between young people for targeted policies, distinguishing between very young people who are still at school, young people who have to choose university and postgraduate courses, young people who look out for work for the first time, young people who do not study and do not work (the NEETs) and young workers with the need to build their work paths in relation to the family. Evaluated that the Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Region, setting out initiatives to support youth employment, a bridge to work for the next generation of 1 July 2020, states that it is time for Member States and European institutions to turn their attention to the next generation. The actions that are imagined are: strengthening the guarantee for young people and the guarantee for vocational education and training, social equity and resilience together with a new boost to apprenticeships that will help create youth employment. The Communication also sets out further measures to achieve this objective. The Commission's proposals for the next generation EU and the future of the European budget will allow significant funding for youth employment. It is now up to the Member States to set investment priorities as youth employment is primarily their responsibility. For years, the international work organisation has been fighting to ensure that all men and women have access to productive work and decent work. For these reasons, Italy Viva has decided to present this motion, in order to ask the Government: to define and approve a large industrial plan of investments in digital and transition in green economy, to which is connected, as an essential and integral part, a plan for the training and the valorization of the competences of young people and the employment of young people; to strengthen the action of Government already in progress in order to provide for the reorganization of the various institutes related to training and vocational retraining, with a system discipline for a true dual system of training-work, that has, in the main comparable European experiences, significant cultural and legislative references; to establish a plan for the integration of digital culture as a fundamental teaching in all the cycles of secondary higher education, for the acquisition, by the very young, of a minded form and a ability to discern useful for a new world; to adopt measures of support for university students and their families, promoting the right to study and the reduction of taxes, beginning with registration. It is also asked to increase and strengthen the higher technical institutes and to coordinate the plans for training simultaneously, with the experience of the training bodies, which carry out short professionalization courses in the territories, which arise from the continuous dialogue with the companies and which allow to respond quickly to the need for skills of the companies. And, again, we ask to strengthen the expansionary social shock absorbers, which can hold together support for retirement, generational replacement and training plans; to evaluate the opportunity to make the civil service mandatory; to prepare a specific investment on young professionals who choose to stay in Italy, with access to the professions that is simple, and to create measures to ensure that such work is paid in a reasonable way, avoiding forms of exploitation; to strengthen the government action already in place, as we said, in order to continue the confrontation with the social partners, to define a unified legislation, starting from the protection of work on digital platforms. Finally, with the motion, we call for a major project for youth entrepreneurship, including social entrepreneurship, focusing, among other things, on entrepreneurship education and training, counselling, mentoring and coaching for young people. Dear President, I turn to you and, therefore, to the Government, I must remind you that in these days, until the end of the month, Italian taxpayers will have to face the biggest tax burden in history, which counts 246 tax deadlines for self-employed workers and 115 for traders, craftsmen and even the smallest entrepreneurs. Italy Viva has repeatedly asked the Government, even with the intervention of the president of the Davide Faraone Group, to extend the tax deadlines of July; without this intervention our companies will not be able to plan their future, nor even that of the young. More cash, more investment translates into hiring. I don't think it's hard to understand. It's an easy equation. We hope that the government will repent and facilitate the creation of jobs, giving up money that could also cash at the end of the year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u39	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the motions we are examining today are much more important than any other measure: they look to the future, they would like to commit the Government to avoid the mistakes of the past (and also those of the present) in order to guarantee to the new generations what is necessary in order to put their roots in our country. The causes of the generational gap, we know, are many; among them must certainly be counted the persistent difficulty between the under 35 to find a job, as evidenced by their low employment rate. Moreover, when young people work they are often underemployed or part-time even when they want to do so full-time. Added to this is the strong precariousness of the Italian labour market, which has not at all resolved with the decree dignity, indeed, I would say that it has complicated itself, and the low wages, which penalize especially young people. However, it is not just unemployment, but a structural lack of opportunities and a serious shortage of training, as pointed out by entrepreneurs who would like to hire young people, but who do not find them trained for the task that should await them. I dare not think, certainly with the chaos of the next school year, how we can think of the formation organized by a totally incompetent minister. In other countries politics has already realized this problem and tends to impress economic and social policies on the real needs of young people, seen as a resource of their country. This involves more attention and resources for education, training, research, integration into the labour market and for young families with children. What are the economic and social policies that Italy could adopt to address this problem? The first thing is to restart the economy: without greater growth, the incomes of younger generations and future generations are set to stagnate and the present generation gap cannot be filled or will tend to increase again. Economic and social policies must take greater account of the needs of young people. The latest OECD report on Italy provides chilling data and we see very strong recommendations in this regard: firstly, cutting social contributions from companies for medium and low wages, which will promote employment and economic growth; secondly, a genuine reform of active labour policies combined with a reform of apprenticeships and vocational courses that facilitate integration into the world of work or educational pathways for young people who are currently excluded from society, because they do not study and do not work. If you think that in the school year 2018-2019 in Italy about 220,000 young people - and I emphasize the figure - have not continued their studies, it is clear how manufacturing training, which concerns for example the Made in Italy, could constitute for them a valid opportunity, since more than 80% of graduates would find employment at the end of the studies, if there were professional training paths. I think of the typical traditions of Italy (the carpentry shop, the fashion and processing of glass, wrought iron and leather), all realities that deserve to rediscover their valorization also thanks to the fact that our country can no longer afford to lose these excellences, envied in the world and unfortunately many times copied and sold in a counterfeit way. Rediscovering the beauty of manual work does not mean abandoning technology, but rather making our country more attractive, which has always had a vocation for the sectors of agriculture and manufacturing. It is therefore necessary to invest in training through reforms that focus on school curricula (ahimè, we will never stop reminding you of that). Italy invests little more on this, but generally in the school compared to other developed countries. We certainly do not mean training in style navigators hired to assist citizens' income recipients, a madness: we will call "Who has seen it?" to get news of them, because, despite the contracts from 27,000 euros a year to do you do not know well what, since on more than 1 million people have found a place for 25,000 people, the navigators have also received the allowance from 600 euros in March and April foreseen by the emergency coronavirus, even if they have continued to take the salary regularly, despite the employment centers have been closed. [[Applause.]] Shame! People are still waiting for the Integration Fund! Do you hear them? In the restaurant they have not yet taken the Cassa Integrazione and in June they received the one in March; wherever you feel, even in the companies: just ask around and you will know how many people have not yet taken it. Please accompany a navigator to Tridico, which much, much worse than that, can not do! In our motion we ask, among other things, the Government to resolve in a structured way the problem of the so-called training funnel, so that each graduate in medicine corresponds to a post-graduate training course, in order to provide citizens with quality assistance and to put in the system a reasonable number of specialists and doctors of general medicine. In fact, we know that the scholarships for specialization schools, albeit increased, do not allow all medical graduates to have a future as specialists in our country. We need to make it quick before we lose further trained human capital. Even if in 2020 they could reach 13,000, given the 4,200 more of the decree I raise, the specialization grants are not enough, because, after the ministerial decree that allows the certification, the doctors will be many more, so the places are not enough for these first two years. Mothers and women must be given real help through the increase in corporate welfare, as many private companies, for example, from which the public could take an example. We talk a lot about a lack of birth in our country, but we do nothing concrete: there was a few words. Now, the alarm bells are now bells that do not stop ringing and the time to do serious things has already expired, as the tuna cans also expire, although unfortunately they have a long conservation. It is like the desire of the Italians to hear every day that everything will soon change and that this Government will go home. Work and our young people have priority. Do not waste also this great occasion when Forza Italia grants you - with a word that I think this Government likes - the use of its ideas. For example, since next week we will be voting on the budgetary deviation, we would like to know how this money will be used, because it is true that we will have to buy the ergonomics benches - or perhaps we will also do the scooters, I don't know - but perhaps it would be good to present an investment plan, since it will only pass if we vote for it. [[Applause]] We care about Italy. By not accepting these proposals, you will once again go against the will of this country and the majority of citizens who want, first of all, to work and live peacefully. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u41	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, today the Senate Assembly is called upon to examine certain acts of direction towards the Government, some of which focus on an issue which is poorly considered by the current majority: youth employment. Despite all governments' efforts (but in words) to solve the serious problem of the high unemployment rates that characterize the labour market, especially for younger people, there is really little practical action. As my colleague De Vecchis pointed out, Istat points out that between 2009 and 2018 some 320,000 young people aged between twenty and thirty-four have left our country, not for a choice of life perhaps linked to family or affective factors, but precisely because these young people do not have the possibility to find a job that enhances the studies done, that rewards the commitment they put into their professional activity, that allows to have a sufficient income to live in a dignified way without depending on the parents. Young people flee and Italy loses not only people, but also resources that could enhance. We are talking about a cost of about EUR 16 billion, over a percentage point of GDP, a treasure that our young people end up pouring into other countries that are more forward-looking than ours. What does our country do for young people? Unfortunately, it is limited to assistantism, humiliating our children rich in resources, who have achieved important educational qualifications, with great sacrifices on the part of families, and do not ask for a subsidy: they want to work, produce, grow the country, improve it, enrich it. We know that Decree-Law No 4 of 28 January 2019 established citizenship income as a measure of active labour policy, combating poverty, inequality and social exclusion. The aim of the legislator was noble: to guarantee income to the poor, but at the same time to create the conditions for this income to be used to enable those concerned to find a job. The 5 Star Movement, the main supporter of this institute, stated loudly that it should appear not so much as an instrument of welfare policy, but rather as an instrument of active labour policy. Let's remember that the current Minister of Labour and Social Policy Catalfo last year was rapporteur of the provision in Senate for the conversion into law of the decree-law and that he had expressly stated at the session of 25 February 2019 that the income of citizenship was a proactive measure linked to the inclusion in the social and working context of the citizen. In fact, the payment of income is conditional on the declaration of immediate availability for work, as well as on the adherence to a personalised accompaniment path, employment integration and social inclusion, which includes community service activities. All shared goals. Those who benefit from income are therefore obliged to sign at employment centres a pact for work or, if the conditions are met, a pact for social inclusion, in which they must ensure their willingness to participate in projects in the cultural, social, artistic, environmental, training or protection of common goods, to be carried out at the same municipality of residence, making available no less than eight hours per week, which can be increased up to a maximum of sixteen hours. What results have been achieved after a year and a half of experimentation? Well, the data from the Observatory on Citizenship Income and ANPAL testify to the complete failure of this policy. The observatory reports that in 2019 the measure involved 968.645 households and 2,540,575 people, for an average monthly amount of 527 euros, while in 2020 it involved 1,057,319 nuclei and 2,721,036 people, respectively, for an average monthly amount of 568 euros. The monthly note of 29 May 2020 published by ANPAL tells us that on 1 April 2020 the total number of beneficiaries of citizenship income present in the ANPAL database is just over 990,000 individuals, of which only 800,000 are subject to employment and only 365,000 are taken over by employment services. ANPAL itself reports that, on 10 February 2019, the beneficiaries who started an employment relationship after the application was approved are 39.760, of which 65.2 per cent are fixed-term, 19.7 per cent are permanent, and 3.9 per cent are apprenticeships. In practice, the National Agency for Active Labour Policies, which should therefore work to promote employment, the matching of supply and demand, tells us that less than 2% of those who have received citizenship income have then obtained employment and almost all those who have had a contract of employment have been given time. Even the Court of Auditors, in its report on the 2019 general statement, rejected citizenship income, noting that against a cost of almost four billion euros, only 2% of the beneficiaries then obtained a job through the intermediary of employment centres. Colleagues, was it really worth it? In fact, Italy has invested a lot of resources, but has not been able to go beyond mere welfare policies. He paid subsidies, but he didn't give a job, and when the job is there, it's a fixed-term job. Would it not therefore be appropriate to revise these labour policies, to take steps to ensure that the provision of citizenship income does not result in mere welfare activities, but is functional to enable citizens to participate in the labour market? That is why, as a League Group, we have decided to present a motion that commits the Government to adopt a structured and organic plan that does not only give subsidies, but enhances young people through active labour policies, increasing the offer of work in a particular way for young people and increasing the rate of youth employment in order to ensure that our young people are increasingly encouraged to stay in Italy, to grow and improve our country, rather than go looking for luck elsewhere. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u43	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u44	Mr President, I welcome the premises of motion 254 (text 2), tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. As regards individual commitments, the opinion was in favour of points 1 and 2. The opinion was in favour of point 3 with the following rewording: 'to promote the establishment of a plan', leaving the rest of the point in line with what has already been written. The opinion is in favour of point 4 with the following rewording: "to promote support measures for university students and their families by enhancing them, leaving the rest of the point in line with what has already been written. The opinion is in favour of point 5 with the following rewording: "to take initiatives of competence in order to carry out the simultaneous coordination of the plans for the training with the experience of the training bodies that realize in the territories short professionalization paths, vocational master, that arise from the continuous dialogue with the companies and that allow to respond quickly to the need for competences of the companies". The opinion was in favour of point 6. On point 7, the opinion is in favour of the following rewording: "to increase the National Civil Service Fund in order to give substance to the universality provided for by Legislative Decree No 40 of 6 March 2017, and to allow all young people who wanted to have this experience (about 85,000 in 2019) to be able to achieve it." The opinion is in favour of point 8 with the following rewording: "to promote a specific investment", leaving the rest of the point in line with what has already been written. The opinion was in favour of points 9, 10 and 11. Finally, the opinion supports point 12 with the following rewording: "to promote new specific measures to support and encourage the work of young people in academic and applied research." With regard to motion No 260 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, the opinion is in favour of the premises. The opinion is also in favour of the first commitment with the following rewording: "to assess the appropriateness of including in the next budget law a rule which, having as its objective the resumption of the productive activity of the enterprises keeping intact the workforce, with particular attention to the youth one, provides for the reduction, leaving the rest of the point in line with what has already been written. The opinion is in favour of the second commitment of the mechanism with the following rewording: "to assess the appropriateness of including in the next budget law a rule aimed at providing contributory reductions in favour of private employers who from 1 January 2020 and until 31 December 2021 maintain at least 80% of the employment levels of young workers by 1 February 2020, an incentive, in the form of an exemption from 40% of the social security contributions charged to them, excluding the premiums and contributions due to INAIL, for a maximum period of 12 months." I give a favourable opinion on the premises of motion 268, first signed by Senator Nisini, provided that the last five chapters are removed. On the sole commitment the opinion is in favour with the following rewording: "to undertake initiatives aimed at strengthening active labour policies with the aim of increasing the supply of labour, especially for young people, increasing the rate of youth employment, the income of the treasury in terms of social security contributions and aiming towards the valorization of human resources produced by our country". So, apart from the initial rewording ('to take initiatives to strengthen'), there is the elimination of words: "by leaving purely welfare measures', the rest of the text would remain the same. I am in favour of the premises of motion 273, at the first signature of Senator Bernini. On commitment No 1, the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: "to consider the possibility of including, also through the next budget law, measures to be taken to achieve this (the rest would remain the same). On commitment No 2, the opinion supports the following rewording: "to support the introduction of tax-free forms in favour of innovative start-ups, including through the establishment of a special fund." On commitment No 3 the opinion supports the following rewording: "to support the adoption of measures" (the rest remains identical). On commitment No. 4 the opinion is in favour with the following rewording: "to assess the possibility of adopting the necessary regulatory measures so that, in agreement with professional bodies, the academic qualifications of the relevant degree courses can be enabled, anticipating within them, where appropriate, the preparatory training to the professional qualification". However, I can assure you that we are working in this direction. On commitment No 5 the opinion was in favour. On commitment No 6, the opinion is in favour of the following rewording: "to assess the possibility of providing regulatory initiatives for the provision of contributions to young Italians under 25 or 28 years of age for attendance, in an institution located in a different region than that of residence, of highly qualified courses in environmental matters, of agro-food, of biotechnology, of the economy, of nanotechnologies, of computer science, of mechatronics or of health." Again with regard to the arrangements, the Government gives a favourable opinion on points no. No 7 and No 8, and contrary to points 7 and 8 of the motion for a resolution. 9 and 10. On commitment No 11, the opinion was in favour. Finally, on commitment No 12, the opinion supports the following rewording: "to consider the possibility of intervention" (the rest would remain the same).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u45	Colleagues, appreciated the time, if there are no objections, I propose to suspend the sitting pending the information of President Conte, scheduled at 12 o'clock, in order to allow explanations of vote on motions to be carried out all together; otherwise we could do just a couple now.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u48	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, as the reformulations proposed by the Undersecretary are quite copious, if there is a consensus on the part of all the groups, I propose that if any of us has any comments to make or clarification to ask for, we should be able to do so continuously with the intervention of the Government, of course without reopening the debate. I make this request simply so that we can have a moment of intercourse.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u49	We can do it right away, we have half an hour, so that at 4:30 p.m. it doesn't start again with a new break.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u50	It seems to me that so many senators were rightly trying to transcribe the Government's observations; if you want and if you need to, you can do so now.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u51	I believe that the Undersecretary has given ample explanation of the proposed rewordings. Eventually after the suspension of the sitting, because otherwise it becomes atypical the moment of confrontation, surely the Undersecretary is available to colleagues for further information, if you want to reach a sharing. For me there is no problem, but I am suspending the sitting at this moment, which will resume at 12 p.m. with the information of President Conte. (The sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and resumed at 12.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u52	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the outcome of the European Council. I remember that live television with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte. [[Stretch applause. Comments.]] Colleagues, please, a little respect for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I felt it my duty to be here today to report on the outcome of a European Council which took historic decisions and which, because of the importance of the issues discussed, has extended far beyond the initial expectations. It was also an extraordinary summit in terms of complexity, in line with the high stakes. What I considered to be a wish in the communications given here to Parliament on 15 July is certain today. The agreement reached is undoubtedly a fundamental step, which impels us to say, without emphasis, that Europe has lived up to its history, its mission and its destiny. The European Union has been facing a health, economic and social crisis since its most tragic symmetrical and systemic onset. It has involved all countries; it has deeply shaken the lives of European citizens; it has had a significant impact on society, on economies, forcing us to reconsider rapidly prospects and patterns of development. In the face of such a shock, during these dramatic months the European Union has been able to respond with courage and vision, until yesterday to take the decision to approve, for the first time, an ambitious recovery programme financed by the issue of genuinely European debt securities. In this way, a radical change of perspective took place yesterday: in the past we tended - let us not forget - to intervene in the sign of rigour, relying on austerity logics, which have then proved to be - we know - inadequate, ending up depressing the social and productive fabric, compressing even growth. Today, instead, the approval of the powerful financing plan, which also complements the framework of many other actions already undertaken and adopted, is entirely oriented to economic growth and sustainable development, in particular in the sign of digitalisation and ecological transition. With yesterday's decision, the Council therefore embraced a different perspective in favour of a more cohesive, more inclusive, more supportive, closer to the citizens and ultimately more political and certainly more coherent with the original spirit of the European dream, that of those who, after the tragedy of the Second World War, foreshadowed the idea of a unity based on a communion of values, history and destiny. It is the only way to preserve the integrity of the single market itself and the stability of monetary union itself. This positive result was not at all obvious in March - let us all remember - when Italy, together with eight other Member States, proposed that the recovery fund should complement, with equal political and economic dignity, the other response instruments that were already on the table of the European Council. As is well known, since the beginning of the emergency of the Covid-19, Italy has immediately pointed out that the crisis in which the whole continent had precipitated had extraordinary gravity, assuming the traits of an unprecedented recession, however, overtaken in a macroeconomic context already characterized by elements of deep fragility, exacerbated by the tightening of persistent social and territorial imbalances. Already the Franco-German proposal of 18 May and the European Commission's proposal of 27 May for the creation of the next generation EU package and for the preparation of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 were inspired by this vision. The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, in drawing up the proposal which then provided the negotiating basis on which the comparison between the Member States began, did not differ in substance from those assumptions. This was a tight, complex interlocution, in which a plurality of positions and interests were confronted. An intense political and diplomatic commitment, on the days and nights of negotiations in particular - but obviously the work started well before - has allowed to see confirmed the total volume of 750 billion euros, despite the rebalancing between grant (subsidies), as you know passed from 500 billion of which to the original proposal to the 390 billion euros current, and loan (loans), from 250 to 360 billion euros, because of the anachronistic vision of a few Member States. Therefore, overall, the proposal has remained in its entirety as far as its economic scope is concerned. In this way an ambitious response has been confirmed, appropriate to the stakes, the functioning of the single market and the revival of interdependent European economies, and in this perspective we have worked not only - you see - to protect the dignity of our country, to promote its leading role in Europe, but also to safeguard the prerogatives of the European institutions themselves from some very insidious attempts, which emerged during the negotiations, to distort the genuinely Community essence of the next generation EU programme, contributing to the full affirmation of the principle of solidarity. I must confess that there have been moments, during the long phase of the negotiations, in which the rigidity of the different positions seemed even insurmountable. Even in those more critical moments, however, the growing awareness of a deep sense of responsibility towards our peoples continued to ripen; we could not fail, nor enter into a mediocre compromise or even postpone the decision. For this reason, with tenacity, with determination, we continued the confrontation in all respects until the dawn of yesterday. We can be satisfied with a positive result, which does not belong to individuals; it does not belong to those who speak to you and to the Government and - if you will allow me - not even to the majority forces: it is a result that belongs to the whole of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u54	I'm sorry to interrupt, ma'am. No photos can be taken in the Chamber; I have to repeat this at every sitting. Senators Botto and Leone, please don't use the camera, okay? It can't be done. We should all have learned that by now. Excuse me again, Mr President, but it is not possible that every time I have to remember the rules. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u55	I would like to thank all the Ministers, who have never failed to support them throughout the negotiations. Let me give Mr Amendola a special mention because he was with me in Brussels and he shared the difficulties that we have encountered materially. [[Applause.]] I really feel like thanking all the majority forces: once again you have supported in a compact way the Government, the action of the Government, on the basis of a convinced sharing of this project. Thank you! Let me also thank those opposition forces which, despite the diversity of positions, have understood the importance of this historical passage and the goods at stake, in the perspective of national interest. You too, thank you! We can sum it up: the Italian political class as a whole has given a great test of maturity on this occasion. Finally, I would also like to thank all Italian citizens, because their behavior, their support, which led to this result, started already in the first days of the pandemic. During the toughest weeks, with the proof of resilience of which, first of all in Europe, our citizens have testified, with the sense of community that they have been able to express in those days, during which I felt strong their support, they have objectively strengthened the position, authority and credibility of the Italian Government at the table of the great decisions. [[Applause]] Therefore, it is also thanks to them that Italy has been up to the challenge and has brought home this important result. We all have to be proud. Italy achieves a result that is up to expectations, a result - you have seen - even better than the initial proposal made by the European Commission regarding the total amount of funds allocated to our country. [[Applause]] In the current scheme, Italy will receive 209 billion euros: 28% of the total resources foreseen by the next generation EU that - I repeat - is equal to 750 billion euros. In particular, the amount of transfers, the famous grants for Italy, as provided for in the Commission's proposal, is set at 81 billion. On the other hand, there is a really significant increase of around EUR 36 billion, the component of the available loans, thus reaching a significant figure of EUR 127 billion. These resources may be committed until 31 December 2023. 70% of these resources will be available between 2021 and 2022 and the related payments linked to the implementation of the projects defined in the national recovery plans will be available until the end of 2026 when the Union stops issuing securities and the period of reimbursement by the Member States begins. In addition to the main component of next generation EU, i.e. recovery and residence facility, enhanced to 672.5 billion euros from the 560 billion proposed by the European Commission, two other instruments will play an important role: EU investment, with a total budget of 8.4 billion euros, which will support private investments - it is a bit the heir of the Juncker plan for investments of which, moreover, Italy has turned out to be one of the main recipients - and the EU react initiative, with a total budget of 47,5 billion euros, thanks to which anti-Covid investments in favour of the health system and in support of the income of workers and the liquidity of enterprises can be continued. Another politically relevant outcome of the intense political and diplomatic action carried out, before and during the European Council, together with other Member States and the President of the European Commission and the European Council, is that the next generation governance mechanism EU preserves the competences of the European Commission on the implementation of national recovery and resilience plans. The plans will be approved by the Council of the European Union by qualified majority, as is already the case for the national reform programmes of the European Semester, while individual disbursements will be decided by the Commission, after consulting the Council. The emergency brake which may be activated at the European Council will also last for up to three months and will not be able to provide for a right of veto. Thus, the unanimous steps which would have triggered both legal and dangerous drifts have been avoided, and the Commission's powers in the area of the European budget have been undermined, as well as its political powers, because they would have imprisoned the key instrument of European economic recovery in cross-border vetoes between Member States. On this point Italy immediately defined its red line. I would also like to tell you that, until the last few hours before the negotiations were concluded, while the accounting matches were about to be closed, Italy wanted, before they all closed, to keep the reserve until the last one; on this, then, we acted with the utmost determination, obtaining that the last formulation - which was well improved compared to the previous ones - was further renewed. In the last few hours, therefore, just before the negotiations were concluded, we have achieved a reformulation of the emergency brake: we have achieved that at the European Council, if this were ever to be invested - exceptionally - with specific and reasoned demands which must bring about significant failure to implement the plan, there is a simple discussion, therefore excluding any decision-making power. We have clarified and clarified the rule that the duration of this suspension should be three months, so as not to slow down the implementation of the plans and payments. We have also expressly mentioned the articles of the Treaty which refer to the competence of the Commission. Finally, do not pay, we wanted a legal opinion, a legal opinion, from the legal office of the Presidency of the European Council, to be annexed to the acts. In this way, we have avoided compromising the consolidated decision-making mechanisms of the European institutions and, specifically, the effectiveness of the next generation EU programme. The European Council adopted a decision appropriate to what is at stake also with regard to timing. It was, in fact, essential and indispensable to give a clear signal to the citizens, businesses and financial markets themselves: Europe responds in a timely, well-determined manner to the crisis. In this respect, I would point out that 10% of resources, in the form of recovery and residence facility transfers, can be anticipated as pre-financing for 2021. Secondly, investment projects already launched from 1 February 2020 will also benefit from funding from the European package, provided they are consistent with the objectives of the programme. At this European Council, the seven-year budget was also approved, the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, which, as you know, usually requires more meetings. The Italian balance on the multiannual financial framework, while remaining negative, improves compared to the current one, 2014-2020, from less 0,24 percent to less 0,17 percent of GDP (in absolute terms, from less 4,11 billion euros to less 2,9 billion euros on average per year) and is more than compensated by the income expected from the next generation EU. We are also one of the few Member States which has increased its cohesion policy allocations from EUR 36.2 billion to EUR 38 billion compared to the current multiannual financial framework, which has been reduced to a total of EUR 37 billion in the various Member States. This is - if you will allow me to stress this - a decisive result, because cohesion policy, particularly in this particular socio-economic situation, plays a fundamental role for the benefit of the territories. In the area of cohesion, greater flexibility has been achieved in the use of the Structural Funds, thanks to less stringent thematic concentration obligations and longer decommitments, which makes it possible to better direct expenditure towards the specific needs of the different territorial areas, including in terms of supporting the sectors most affected by the crisis by Covid-19. As for the equally fundamental common agricultural policy, the strengthening of rural development allocations (77.1 billion from the multiannual financial framework and 7.5 billion from next generation EU) benefits Italy, which has high returns, over 11% of the total. The conclusions of the extraordinary European Council on the multiannual financial framework also confirmed the commitment to introduce new own resources since 2021, while - as Italy had hoped - the abolition of the VAT-based resource, which would cost our country about 1.1 billion in seven years, was avoided. On the revenue side, some countries will be able to benefit from an increase in discounts - you have also heard it, it has been anticipated - compared to the contribution of the Community budget, which they could already avail of in the current multiannual financial framework. These are the famous payouts: it is an element that we have always declared anachronistic, which has also served to counter further claims and exercise a negotiating power, on which all our partial flexibility has been conditioned by the priority need to ensure the positive outcome of the negotiations on next generation EU. The European Council also found a synthesis of the rule of law and the fight against climate change. With regard to the rule of law, the conclusions relate to its respect for the protection of the European Union's financial interests, in line with what is already contained in the negotiating proposal brought to the table by President Michel. As regards the fight against climate change, it has been confirmed that 30% of European expenditure will be linked to achieving this ambitious objective and the reduction compared to the initial proposal of the total budget of the just transition fund, which however amounts to EUR 10 billion, does not have a specific negative impact on Italy. Generally speaking, it must be acknowledged that the fund is unfortunately suffering from a dysfunctional approach, because it rewards countries that have not so far committed themselves enough to the ecological transition, neglecting the need to recognize the efforts of those States that, like Italy, have already undertaken the inevitable path of the green deal. I should like to conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the outcome of yesterday's Council, we are called upon to make a strong and intense effort to ensure that the reform path that has been launched over the past few weeks finds concrete and timely implementation, first of all with the preparation of the national plan for recovery and propedeutic resilience to access to European next generation funds. We have already laid the foundations for this plan, identifying the objectives to be pursued during the national consultation and we are planning to relaunch them. We will need to use the new resources efficiently, directing them to finance the investments needed to successfully address the challenges of the future. The crisis from Covid-19 has made evident some historical criticalities of our country. This Government assumes the responsibility of preparing and implementing this plan with commitment, determination and foresight, being aware that a better future for citizens, as well as - we must be aware of this - the credibility of Italy in Europe will also pass from here, from being able to demonstrate to seize this historic opportunity, manifesting a proactive, decision-making and implementation capacity that does not yield to particularisms. It would be an epochal mistake for which we could certainly not accuse Europe. These days of negotiation strengthen us in the belief that national interest today more than ever must be pursued within the European perimeter. Selfish visions, often anchored in the defense of anachronistic interests, offer no effective response, except that of nourishing the fears of citizens and detachment from institutions. [[Applause.]] The recovery plan will be a collective effort, we will be confronted with Parliament and we must work very hard in this direction. We must also work to build confidence in the Italian institutions and in Europe. With the agreement reached yesterday at the European Council, the wish expressed by many of Jacques Delors, on Monday 20, on his birthday, for a successful outcome of the European Council, when 27 years ago, on 10 February 1993 before the European Parliament, seems to be fulfilled, said that it was really time to put the flower of hope back at the centre of the European garden. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u56	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u57	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to break the spell of this moment of jubilation (and then I will say something about the moments of jubilation) to say that we are evaluating the outcome of a European summit. Colleagues, I confess to you that coming to the Senate this morning I was reminded of what Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, who was a great President of the Republic, always said with him what the great protagonists of the Christian democratic tradition of this country, namely that Italy's role in Europe was to be close to France and Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, at this European summit political families were split: from the people, to the socialists, the countries of frugalism, the countries of Visegrad, the countries of the South, the countries of the North. The result of all this was that we had neighbors and we needed - and Europe needed - Chancellor Merkel and Macron. [[Applause]] I therefore believe that we must recognise, beyond the political groups we belong to, that Italy's role is to work with Germany and France so that Europe can move forward. The stakes at this summit were not only the condition under which the President of the Council would come here after the mandate received by Parliament last week; it was something more. It was the idea that the countries of the North, so-called frugal countries, had above all that at this time so difficult for all Europe should take the intergovernmental path; something very important has been said, namely the idea that Europe is moving forward on the spirit and idea of a Community Europe. Colleagues, the President-in-Office of the Council, very responsibly, has made the accounts of the obligations that we will have, the possibility of curbing certain decision-making mechanisms or not. Look, they're watching us for how we're gonna spend the money. It's not a problem, because this control should be ours for our kids. [[Applause]] The subject is not the controls that are imposed on States, but the fact that we move forward with the established opinion that if Europe has a future this is on the path of unity, of the Community vision: the States will not prevail. This is the essential element of this summit. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, I appreciate the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council has come here and said that it is a success of the Italians. Yes, Mr President, you are right, it is a success of the Italians that we owe also to the thousands of deaths for the Covid-19, to whom we bow because it is right that it should be so. [[Applause]] The triumphalisms are fine, colleagues, but we have not won the Totocalcio schedule, we have not won at Bingo, here there is no "uncle of America" that brings us money: here there are commitments that the State will assume and debts that will be contracted in Europe and therefore our need is not to do triumphalisms today, also because triumphalisms usually have unpredictable results and here in September-October there will be little to be triumphalist, since the scale of the crisis is much stronger than what was expected even two months ago. The need we have is instead to understand that today this affair has been well conducted by the Italian Government and I have no difficulty in saying that the President of the Council has given evidence of resistance, which has also been physical. When young people come and ask for advice on how to make politics, I always say that you have to have physical resistance and you have demonstrated resistance and tenacity; we had already understood it in the transition from the first to the second Count Government that you had a little tenacity, but in this case it was even more tenacious than usual. [[Applause.]] He did well, because he negotiated well in the name and on behalf of our country. Colleagues, here we have come to the point: the appeal that the President of the Council made to the oppositions - I want to say this clearly - is not a formal call for me. It can't be a comfort call to me. I know very well that the oppositions think differently about European issues and no one here is Alice in Wonderland: Forza Italia has one position, another has Brothers of Italy and another the League. I have to say that it is a bit like the majority of us, because we in the ESM think of it in one way and in one way and another, but here it is not a question of evoking the opposition to divide it, here it is a question of evoking a relationship with the opposition because it is necessary that in terms of aid that will reach Italy, which is the largest and the most significant from the Marshall plan onwards, there is a sharing of objectives between majority and opposition. This will strengthen the Government, but it will also strengthen Italy, because we need to proceed together on choices that become existential for our country. For the first time the European debt has been mutualized, for the first time Italy has the possibility to have, as a country, the attention that it has deserved also for the management of the Covid. We must present credible plans, we must not disperse into welfare movements, we must involve all the members of civil society, because we know that this is our great objective. Finally, one point was omitted by the President of the Council: the ESM issue. Colleagues, I would praise the ESM; I believe that there have been majority parties, such as the Five Star Movement, who trust the President of the Council; many others still trust the President of the Council and others trust less, as is natural in politics. The theme of the ESM must be de ideologised and seen in concrete terms. You look at him, in concrete terms, with his collaborators, with the ministers Amendola, Gualtieri and Di Maio, with all those who are in the directing booth. You look at the conditions, the conditionality, the times and see if the country will need this. Let us not continue to divide, majority and opposition, on the subject of the ESM [[Applause]] As if this were an ideological boulder that weighs on this Parliament. We must move forward more seriously than in the past and more seriously also means that we entrust you with the responsibility to understand whether or not the MES arrangements are convenient for our country, perhaps to restructure the health system; then clearly there will be Parliament. I believe that the Autonomous Group, which I have the honour to represent, and for which the Parent Company will also speak, is fully convinced that the outcome has been positive and that the Government has carried out well the mandate received by Parliament. I wish you good work because the most has yet to be done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u58	Senator Garnero Santanché is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u59	Mr President, let me say that the beginning of the sitting has a little evoked in my mind the '92 minutes of applause' of a Fantozzi film. [[Applause.]] Having said that, I'd like everyone to come back serious. Mr President, you have seen that in these hours and these days we have behaved as patriots because that is what we are. I say this quite clearly, President: we have cheered for Italy, because when we go to Europe our shirt is that of the national team. However, I must tell you with the same clarity that, in reverse, most likely - indeed, I would be certain - they would have cheered for Rutte, President, and you must be aware of that. This morning reading the newspapers, I noticed that someone misunderstood the fact that we cheered for Italy: our judgment on its work and on the work of the Government remains the same. We believe that you have not been able, that you are not capable and that you will not be able, President, to take Italy out of this crisis and there are many elements that give reason to our thinking. We do not understand the triumphalism of you and the government of these hours because there is a fact: the Government and Italy have come out of this negotiation with less money and more loans, so with a greater debt, and I do not have to explain it to you. [[Comments]] That's right, President Conte, and I'm glad we're thinking differently. It has certainly come out with more debt and, as you know, we already have an enormity as a public debt and I must stress that your Government has also made it grow. Another element that worries us very much, however, is the timing. The money will come, yes, but in 2021, and perhaps in the second half of 2021. That money was meant to save many of our companies that the Covid-19 and this crisis brought to their knees. Our concern is that this money will come too late, when companies have already closed down, with an additional problem that will greatly increase the unemployment rate. Mr Conte, you may not have listened to us today, but we warned you of what could have happened at this European summit and I am talking to you about the conditionality on recovery funds. Today there is money, it is true, and we have given you credit that you, Mr President, fought. It could have been done better, but we recognize that we have certainly fought for Italy. But now we have the problem of whether we can spend that money; we see a very real risk that, perhaps, to spend that money we will have to spend too much time convincing the Dutch and the Germans and maybe even telling us what we will have to do about our pensions; or maybe tomorrow we will have to understand that the illegals must keep them all in Italy, in our nation. We have no clarity about this. [[Applause]] I would like to tell you quite clearly that this would be an absolutely unacceptable transfer of sovereignty for us. We also have other concerns, because now there are celebrations, applauses and crazy statements, but we are also afraid of the so-called emergency brake and we would not want the dream to come true, cultivated by many European countries in recent years, of losing our sovereignty. Then it should also explain something that we did not understand: why did the famous frugal countries, such as Holland (I quote an example for all), come out of these summits with even more privileges? We believe that they already have many privileges and that it would be appropriate to take away some of them. We do not understand why, for example, the Netherlands has had an increase in payouts, i.e. a discount on the money it has to give to Europe, a privilege that - as you know very well - Italy has never been granted (who knows why). We would need a few words of clarity on this point. There are many reasons for concern. I would ask you then, President Conte, to advise Casalino and his men of communication to be more cautious and to avoid talking about this mountain of billions, this rain of billions that have arrived, because in the same hours that you and the whole Government made these statements and went on television to talk about billions of our entrepreneurs, our traders, our professionals and our accountants (to whom you have not granted any extension, because in this country you have closed everything, but you have once again opened the doors to paying taxes), these categories that have been brought to their knees more than many others, were paying taxes. I believe that this cannot be done; it is absolutely unacceptable to us. I would like to close by saying that our concern - I think I have made it clear - is that this money that will come now will also be spent very badly. The EUR 80 billion of the budget deviation - which I remind you all - could not have been achieved without the vote on the opposition, because you did not have a majority in this House - you spent it very badly. We therefore ask you to end this period of trade marks, bonuses, citizenship income and to have a vision of economic development; we ask you to spend this money on infrastructure, highways, high speed, digital, broadband and school. President Conte, until you are able to reopen the schools, Italy will not be able to leave; if you have to put it clearly in your head. We are patriots, but I conclude by saying that our judgment on this government is bad, because in everything you've done so far you haven't guessed one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u60	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u61	Mr President, Mr President of the Council of Ministers, Minister for European Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has done well, unlike 2012. Europe has achieved an extraordinary result, unlike 2012. And Italy, President Conte, has been on the right side. You were good and we acknowledge that, because you have made the country's interest in a European ideal. We appreciate it for this and tell you that if this is the road on which the government must continue, we will increasingly be at your side and who chooses Europe against nationalism and sovereignism. We tell him with a "bravo" that, from our point of view, it is worth double: it is worth double because, if we could suddenly go back, a year ago, we would see a different government. "Quantum mutatus ab lillo!" said Virgil. How much has changed from a government in whose majority were those who organized the conferences and electoral campaigns with Alternative für Deutschland. Today our reference in Germany is Angela Merkel, to whom goes the gratitude to which Senator Casini referred. [[Applause]] Most of them were those who evoked yellow vests in Italy: today our reference is President Macron, who has patiently done a work of stitching together with her and her colleagues. Allow me, therefore, Mr President of the Senate, to address myself through you, as the Rules of Procedure provide, for the first time as a former to my colleagues - I would like to say to my friends - of the Democratic Party. Perhaps, dear friends, it is now clear why, even against the resistance of our ruling group at that time, a year ago we chose to extend the legislature. It was not, as someone said, simply the desire to lengthen the life of a parliamentary clan. It was something more: the idea that politics could convert populism [[Applause]] ; it was the idea that a sovereignist government could become a pro-European, and I address you, because the game starts now. The beautiful or the ugly, the difficult begins now. Will we be able to assume the leadership for which welfare becomes growth, justiceism becomes guarantee, the ability to bet on populism becomes a desire to bet on politics? That is the challenge, Mr President, which sees us on two different fields of play. Senator Salvini said that this deal is a scam as big as a house and I agree with him: it is objectively a scam as big as a house for Salvini Wilders' friend, it is a scam as a house for Alternative für Deutschland, it is a scam as a house for Marie Le Pen, for nationalists from all over Europe, for those who bet on the failure of Europe. [[Applause]] Today Europe is beating a blow, other than a rip-off. However, this choice fills us with responsibility. President Conte made a list of points and did so in a very precise and precise way, as always. Now is the time to tell us clearly: this laborious agreement, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, fills it up and fills us with responsibility because we no longer have alibi, because now no one will be able to summon the enemy as the cause of failure. Now the game is in our hands, for good and for bad, and now it is not easy, because the external situation is complicated, because the crisis bites severely and because, or we make courageous choices, or we will also be carried away by the wave, which is not the second wave of Coronavirus, but it is the wave of return of expectations that we have created. Mr President, when you win a game, there are a lot of people who come to flatter you: let's say that I could speak as a lover of the matter to invite you to trust those who look you in the eyes, as you always have done, in those who tell you here in Parliament - using Parliament as the place of debate, not a place where you like - that on some things we agree and on others we have some resistance. We told you about the schools and the DPCMs and you, I must give you notice, for example on the family act - approved yesterday by the House at first reading - or on the infrastructure level - we are going to discuss the decree simplifications - gave answers. Well, looking at her face, I tell her that there has never been a government with these resources in the last thirty years. Put the compass on 2020, use the 30-year gap and reach 1990: there was no government that had these resources, evidently because there is a crisis that bites severely. I think - I hope I am wrong - that there will be no government that in the next thirty years, turning the compass from here to 2050, will have the same resources. It is an epochal fact for republican history. Faced with this obvious element of novelty, the President of the Council of Ministers and Senator Casini are right to ask for an involvement of oppositions, that is not formal, even in the differences between us and them, but also in the differences between them (between those who are with Merkel and those with Wilders, between those who are with Rutte and those with Le Pen). Today we have a crazy and very difficult political space: it is the space of politics, not populism. That is why, Mr President, we have dozens of very complicated areas of action today. Not having much time available, I quote only three. First of all, there is digital, which can be the instrument by which we radically transform public administration and bureaucracy. Either we do it now, after something like this, with these resources, or we never will again. And this means making the cloud (not living with the head in the clouds), the cloud, big data and artificial intelligence the extraordinary opportunity to enhance Italian talents who, as much as they are capable and appreciated, go abroad (the Minister of University and Research knows well, that on this, in his previous political life and in this, he has carried out an extraordinary action of good work). Then there is fashion. I know it sounds like a joke, because every time you talk about fashion in political circles, there's always someone who crooks his nose. I want to talk about fashion to say that it is risking jumping, forever, an entire fabric of wealth made of tailors, modelers and small artisans (it's not just models and models). It's a world where Made in Italy has made history. I was proud, when he was in the government, to participate in a fashion show (although I did not have the physique du rôle) to give a demonstration of closeness to that world. It is a world that is "jumping into the air": either we intervene through the Depositories and loans and ad hoc instruments (a subject that perhaps finally manages to create the great Italian champion in the fashion sector that small and great personal ambitions and selfishness have not allowed in the past), or a piece of economy will jump. Finally, there is health care. Do we have the courage to say that? In the next ten years in health care everything will change; I am referring to personalized medicine and to the analyses that are profoundly changing the face and the modalities of pharmaceutical, hospitalization and basic medicine. That is why, Mr President, we invite you to give careful thought to the ESM issue. The EUR 37 billion of the ESM - let it be clear to this House - has less conditionality than the recovery fund's loans. If you don't have the courage to say it, you're lying. The 37 billion euros of the ESM arrive in autumn and I challenge the entire parliamentary arc (even the nearest sectors) to find a President of the Region or a candidate for the presidency of the Region in the Marches, Liguria, Tuscany, Campania and Puglia that says no to the ESM, because it is money that goes to the citizens. President Count, surprise Parliament and the country. Instead of a task force, you give us a parliamentary debate in August. [[Applause]] in which the strength of the majority will have to be to challenge the oppositions not on the basis of a generic program of reforms but of a concrete business plan for the future of the Country. Let us go to the House in August, challenge the opposition and say how we want to spend this money. If we do so, Mr President, we will have shown two things: the first is that there is a majority (you mentioned it) and the second, even more important, is that Parliament does not abdicate in the face of the questions of exasperated polling. Parliament is not the place where standing ovations are made or like on Facebook: Parliament is the place where we debate and politics makes sense. In August 2019 we showed that politics made sense; we had the task of giving our country a future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u62	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u63	Mr President, on behalf of +Europe I have been and am in opposition to President Conte's Executive for many of the legislative acts he or his ministers have proposed in recent months. In this constructive opposition of mine, I think today I must acknowledge, out of political and intellectual honesty, the positive results of the negotiations that the political and diplomatic team led by President Conte led to the European Council. I think your team has been working constructively for months (repeat, for months), which also shows that the sudden punches on the table are not much use. [[Applause.]] Persistence, presence, reasonableness and vision are needed. I continue to think that in that place our Government - its actually, President Conte - would have been stronger if it had already put in black, also to avoid interested and instrumental criticism, definite reform plans and if the majority had not kept up the misunderstanding about the ESM. Connect Casini, we remove any ideological data. And it is not, Mr President, a problem of morbid attention on my part; it is not even a question of prejudice: it is a matter of clear and motivated judgment on the use and usefulness of those funds, under the conditions that you yourselves have fortunately negotiated, right? You've committed yourselves to removing conditionality and you've succeeded. At the end of this positive outcome, however, it is still not good. I would like to challenge anyone to an assembly of patients, family members, doctors, nurses and others to say: We needed it, but, you know, we made the gentlemen who knows why. This cannot be done, so much so that we are hungry for huge liquidity, so much so that you are already thinking of a new budgetary deviation. I therefore return to this issue as a map of litmusol not of ideologies but of economic-political approaches and needs of this country. Is there anyone who tells me there's no need for health care? I still have to see him. Or in schools, which we still don't even know when and where they open? She - as it seems - says: the recovery fund is enough. No, they're two different instruments with different times. The MES is now possible; the recovery fund in 2021, and forward at this rate. The aims are also different, because the ESM also allows current expenditure on health and education, for example, while the recovery fund concerns structural reforms, right? So we have different times and different purposes of intervention. I do not know whether this is a historic agreement (history will tell us), but it is certainly an important agreement to enable Europe to take a step forward. Of course we are still far from a federal construction, that is obvious, but now the ball returns to us. We, as net contributors, have, by necessity, become net receivers today. This, in short, is not really brilliant, but let's at least make good use of it, in order to resume to run in some way; and if not to run, at least to walk. I am convinced that Europe has done its job and its job in times when I did not even hope. It is now up to us, because after European solidarity it is time for Italian responsibility. And we don't have to be afraid if there's some sort of horizontal control of everyone. We are saying that we are going to reform, but will we not? Instead, I believe that fairness and loyalty are an integral part of the credibility of a country and its government. Finally, there is for you the possibility (only in relation to the past and the future) of carrying out the necessary structural reforms for a long time, for example on justice and simplifications. If we avoid making decree-laws that then need 103 administrative acts to be feasible, it is clear that we will not aggravate an already very tangled situation. It is clear, however, that you and all of us have an extraordinary possibility: the ability to make a dramatic crisis an opportunity to remove this country from many years of blockade. You must give courage, trust and hope to this country on behalf of all of us so that we can all walk again. I really hope that, even at the Italian level, you will be able to demonstrate the persistence and pervicacy that you have demonstrated in Europe with your entire team. I will be careful about this, but who needs to be more attentive is certainly you and all your Government because the country today has an opportunity. Don't waste it: not for yourself, but for the country. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u65	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, authoritative colleagues and colleagues, today is an important day and I, perhaps with a little lightness, would like to call it a day of celebration for our country. It is a beautiful day when, in my opinion, it would be natural for all Italians to unite around their own Government, their own President of the Council and their own Parliament to live it properly, as a great victory. Italians have always been described - perhaps, we have also always described ourselves - as those who only join when they win the World Cup. I remember the World Cup in 1982 and 2006. I believe that today the whole of Italy can celebrate together with the Government and you, President Conte, because ours is a great victory for the country. ( [[Applause).]] I am concerned about some of the comments that have been made, but I understand the dynamics of the political battle. We must not deny it and, indeed, we must say it with much force and clarity. Unfortunately, there were many doubts about the outcome of this discussion, about our country's ability to hold on to the proposals that would be made to us and about the ability to manage a complex negotiation by our Government. But you, Mr President, with your ministers, Mr Gualtieri, Mr Di Maio and Mr Amendola (who we have the honour to have here today), with Paolo Gentiloni Silveri and Mr Sassoli, have made a masterpiece. You managed to get out of this negotiation on better terms than the best expectations we could have. ( [[Applause]] ). We have shown that Italy with a high head in Europe, knowing that it has done its duty for decades, today was in a position to collect, at a time of difficulty following the emergency health and in a phase of serious economic emergency. And you have done so to the very end, with Parliament at your side in all the steps, including the recent ones that have also been in this House. After that, this cannot and must not allow us to loosen our attention. Indeed, as has also been said in previous speeches, real attention begins today. I am among those who are not at all frightened by the fact that, in the face of commitments, in the face of a huge - and previously unimaginable - amount of money, even at a loss, which is made available to us by Europe, we must have the strength, the courage, the precise intention to make those reforms that have been asked of us; to make them simply because those reforms go in the interest of our country, of our national community. We must make those reforms and give a boost and support to our fellow citizens, to our businesses, to our workers, to our entrepreneurs, who today need more than ever that this opportunity not only is not lost but is being used to the full to ensure a better future for our generations, Mr President. [[Applause.]] As many have said, we trust in constructive and even dialectical support, of confrontation and sometimes of confrontation, on the part of all political forces, who rightly demand involvement and dialogue. I believe that Parliament is the place where this confrontation can take place, but starting from an objective consideration of the framework in which we find ourselves. And the objective assessment can only start from the great achievement we have, the great opportunity we have and the duty we have today towards our citizens to make a plan of reforms, to do it well, and to fulfil our duties to the full. I don't want to touch the theme of the MES, either. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have had time to say what I think, and I confirm that today. Finally, the picture is clear, and I invite you and your ministers today to consider the many great opportunities that have been given us by our Europe: from the ability of the Central Bank to buy our securities in a copious way to the measures provided for by the Sure in particular at work, even of course at the ESM on interventions, knowing that it is a fund available faster and with clear conditionality. Those who say that there is no conditionality, but the clear conditionality is the direction of spending, i.e. investment in health. A health care that has held in an emergency phase but that - we know - has before it the great bet of a change for the future. Let us make this assessment, without prejudice and in favour of one fund or another, without schemes, also by the Democratic Party, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and authoritative Ministers. We simply check our country's interest and make the choices that go in that direction together. Let us all make the reform plan together; let us help our economy today, the Italian citizens, our workers, our entrepreneurs and make the choices that history calls us to make as a matter of urgency. Let's do it quickly. It is time to act, to know how to make decisions, to create consensus in Parliament and in the country. We cannot underestimate the phase. Today's celebration for the best result achieved by this Government cannot make us forget the problems that we have daily in our Italy: the fact that tourism is in crisis, that trade is in a very difficult state, that companies have difficulty in continuing the activity, that the integration fund will be extended but that layoffs cannot be blocked forever (the stop can be extended to layoffs, but not forever). Therefore, we have a duty to understand what to do, starting, Mr President, from the funds that the Government has not managed to spend in every Ministry over the years; starting from the European funds of the previous measures, which are not yet exhausted; starting from all the opportunities. There are the conditions to get our country out of this situation, to get out stronger than before, with greater authority, thanks to this Government, this majority and this Parliament everything. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is, however, an opportunity that we simply cannot miss. I wish you and our government good work in the coming weeks. It will be intense weeks, where there will have to be, together, capacity, sense of responsibility and sense of duty towards Italians by all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u66	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u67	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, like Forza Italia, we appreciate the overall result achieved with the agreement of 27 European countries. It is a result for Europe, it is a result for Italy and you, President Conte, have done your duty in negotiating and representing our country. With regard to the intervention that preceded me, however, I think that the party will have to be done by the Italians at the end of the recovery operation and structural funds, because, at the moment, all the actions are still missing, which this Government has not yet done, with regard to the Italian economy and society, starting with those that are the very principles of the agreement of the European Union. We are talking about simplifications: the decree currently under discussion simplifies very little. We appreciate, however, the agreement for the economic entity, which allows to reach, between recovery funds, SURE, ESM and the multi-annual finance framework (which with the co-financing will reach about 75-80 billion euros) a total amount, to be paid on a national basis, of about 350 billion euros. So, a real challenge. We also appreciate the agreement for another reason; for the first time there will be a Community mutualisation, at European level, of the 27 countries. It is a great political fact. There has been a lot of focus on the economic side, but this is a great political fact, which our President, Silvio Berlusconi, wanted to highlight in his statements. All this allows Italy to enjoy rates on very convenient financing and benefits for the large share of lost funds. The 81 billion of the recovery, added naturally to the multi-annual finance framework, allow to make a very serious assessment of the interventions, which, in this case, must be the great infrastructures: railways, roads, schools and intervention alongside the companies that, at the moment, still suffer a great deal, also for the poor management of the plan of the payments, those who want to pay the taxes and that you are choking, not even allowing the delays. It is a challenge that, as a country, we must be able to grasp and not waste. Our being in favour, of course, does not prevent us from making our own and also being attentive to all the criticisms or reservations expressed on double conditionality: management conditions on the national economy which, in line with the programme of the European People's Party, to which we belong, provide for liberalization. The government, at this moment, goes in exactly the opposite direction. I have already mentioned simplification: that proposal is currently very timid. Again: the reform of justice, which is not about freeing the mafia; the free labour market and the flexibility of the labour market, in order to adhere to an economic need. So far all the government's addresses have not gone in these directions, which are normative directions and also constitute the program of Forza Italia. There are also, Mr President, investment conditions, which concern the way in which expenditure is spent, with a check which we do not fear. Unfortunately, first of all, we Italians are aware of our difficulty in implementing and spending the structural funds in good time and with effective investments: it is enough to scroll through the tables of the Regional Development Fund or the European Social Fund or of the Fund for rural or maritime development, but also of the smaller programmes (Interreg and Leader are no less) in order to realize our difficulty in spending capacity. It doesn't have to happen again. State and regions, the real managers, must be responsible for what they have to do, for the programs to run. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we parliamentarians of the Republic must become aware, also free from excessive ideological and localistic conditions (I say excessive, but not completely free from the conditionings, which are part of ourselves), and reason in the interests of Italy and the Italians. Colleagues, we could also divide ourselves into choices, which are political choices, but we must not unite in inertia, which unfortunately was also the characteristic of many national disasters and which currently seems to be the fundamental direction of the government, which today is action apart. It is a great opportunity, but the risk is that the quarrel that your Government has so far manifested vanishing and making us unable to grasp it. Mr President, the centre-right (Forza Italia, Lega, Fratelli d'Italia) also has different positions on certain sectors and certain details, but has unique positions on the objective that our country must have. In any case, he is in opposition, he has not yet sat down to discuss the univocity of some issues, which of course do not see us in the same position, such as the ESM. This is the difference: you governed, so you have a duty to find a unique position, in the interest of the Italians. Forza Italia, as directed by President Berlusconi, has always shown responsibility, but we ask that the Government listen to the oppositions (I appreciate that also representatives of the majority ask this invitation) and collect the proposals presented, avoiding to limit to a comparison of facade, as unfortunately was in the discussion on the decrees of the period Covid-19. Know that we will be vigilant and determined to ensure that these resources are not also wasted on electoral or propaganda objectives. We do not want these kinds of objectives; we will really strive to help change Italy and modernise our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u68	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u69	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, first of all, if there is anything good for Italy, we are all happy and it is not raining on us. We will assess in the next few months whether and how good it will be. I have two methodological objections to the great success and the festive day. This is the first case in which - referring it to the real life of our country - an entrepreneur (in this case, the Italian Government or the Italy Country) goes to the bank to ask for a loan, which will have to return in a few years, they grant him, after four days of negotiations, insults, throws and springs, this loan, but they tell him: My friend, the loan money - which is also your money, because you paid for it over the years - you spend it as I tell you. Without the European Commission' s ok, the loan is not paid: call it an emergency brake or a majority vote. It's a bit of a strange loan, Mr. President-in-Office. If I go to the bank as an entrepreneur to ask for a loan and tell me that I could... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u70	Everyone has spoken without being disturbed, colleagues, please. Please, Senator Salvini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u71	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We have listened in religious silence to your triumphalism: let the opposition also speak, which is a majority in the country, or does it bother you? [[Applause.]] Can we speak on behalf of the majority of Italians or are we forbidden to do so? I have heard, in your speech, that the Council's present itself has given good opposition and bad opposition licences: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if anyone disputes something that is not good for Italy and for Italians, he does not do it because he is bad, but because we do not have the slices of salami on our eyes. I therefore hope to be able to tell this microphone what more can be done. As a League, we make proposals on how to use this money, admitted and not allowed that they will come: I repeat that it is a strange loan what they allow me telling me that I can fix us, for example, bedroom and kitchen, but not bathroom and living room, because the Dutchman on duty says no. Since it's our money, I think the Italians with the money they pay can do what they think, in their interest. This is not out of sovereignism, but out of common sense, because we gave money to Europe. [[Applause.]] However, if anyone - not in the Chamber, but at home - wants to deepen, it is the words of Professor Alessandro Mangia, ordinary of constitutional law of the subversive Catholic University of Milan, which basically defines this loan as a super-MES. But let us come to what we would do if this money came. First of all, we would be rewarding one of the sectors massacred by this negotiation (and I am sorry that the minister of competence has departed): you have massacred Italian farmers, farmers and fishermen. [[Applause.]] Maybe he listens, the Minister, but I don't want to distract him from the dialogue with Senator Pharaoh. 9 billion euros are cut to the common agricultural policy, of which, according to the associations of Italian farmers, at least 2 billion to a sector already in difficulty: I understand that PD is committed to celebrate the thousand thousand billions that will come, but I tell the friends of the Democratic Party that, perhaps it will be too banal for their philosophies, but today - not next year, when perhaps the money of loans will come - cheese, milk, oil, meat, cold cuts, fruit, vegetables and Italian fish are suffering; and since man is what he eats, if we eat badly, we come on bad. First of all, it is necessary to defend Italian agriculture and products. [[Applause.]] Isn't it noble enough for Capalbio's visitors to talk about agriculture? There are people who break their backs to feed our children, so I ask you to bring respect to those who get up at 4:00 in the morning, who have been forgotten by this negotiation. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u72	This is the place of debate and debate, so I would like to have silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u73	[[Protests.]] We have all listened and no one has been interrupted: please, Senator Salvini, continue. [[Comments.]] SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Attention: I make a point, since there are 100 MPs from the PD and the 5 Stars who believe that in order to re-launch Italian agriculture we need to legalize and distribute drugs on behalf of and on behalf of the State. [[Protests.]] Not this: I'm talking about wheat, fruits, vegetables, oil, milk and cheese, not reeds, to be clear. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] I do not believe that the cultivation and sale of hemp is fundamental for the future of our country, on the contrary, I believe that drugs have died to be fought country by country, city by city, school by school. [[Comments.]] If we cannot speak in this House, I am silent, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u74	No, we're in a free Parliament. At last we can compare, so I would invite everyone to respect, it is not possible! I don't mean there's any interruptions. Everyone says what they want. Please, Senator Salvini, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u75	It is appropriate to use part of these billions to support Italian agriculture and fisheries, to use part of this money to cut taxes, but do so seriously, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. If you bring the VAT cut proposal to this House next week, the votes of the League are all there, from the first to the last, but you bring a tax cut proposal to this House, not to the newspapers! [[Applause]] There is filed the proposal of the League on flat tax for families and companies with incomes up to 70,000 euros, at the cost of 13 billion. You brought 209 billion, 13 billion of these 209 we use to cut taxes on Italians or are we asking too much? By the way, I remind some Undersecretary that inviting restaurateurs who can't change jobs is an insult to the people who work. [[Applause]] Rather, you change jobs to some Undersecretary, who doesn't know how hard our traders are doing. The cut in bureaucracy has costs of zero. On August 3, the bridge of Genoa will be inaugurated and I think, on behalf of the entire Assembly of the Senate, to thank Genoa, Liguria, the workers, the technicians, the architects, the engineers for the miracle they have done. [[Applause. Comments]] No, Toninelli's out in a scooter. I thank the mayor of Genoa and the whole community of Genoa for the miracle they have done in that city and I ask you to apply the model Genoa to all the still public works, like the Grunda of Genoa. Speaking of which, Mr De Micheli is not present in the Chamber, so I would ask the President of the Council of Ministers if he could kindly tell you, if he thinks he is going to Genoa in Liguria, where they are suffering and have been queued on the motorway for months, to say that the queues on the Ligurian motorway are inventing them, to avoid making fun of an entire region and a population that would like to work. [[Applause. Comments]] We use part of this money to make roads, highways, ports, airports: the Gronda di Genova, the TAV, the Adriatic ridge, the bridge over the Strait of Messina, which would be a beautiful message of change, of inventiveness. [[Comments]] Mamma mia, democratic in words, but then, when someone says something wrong with them, they are much less democratic in fact. Let's see if we can finish this surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u76	You can't stop all the time, that's enough! It is not possible that no one can calmly express their thoughts! I find that unacceptable. Please, Senator Salvini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u77	We ask to spend a part of this money - and I ask as a parent - for the Italian school, not to take tables with the wheels that will serve the children during the recreation, but to digitize, to set up classrooms magnae, gyms. [[Applause]] Today we read on the "Corriere della Sera" that full time is at risk for elementary schools: use some of these resources to give hope and work certain to at least some of the 200,000 precarious teachers who have in their hands the life and education of our children. [[Applause]] At least one part of it is spent on this. On pensions there is another proposal of the League on the European model, Portuguese. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there are now 373 000 Italian pensioners who have taken up residence abroad, for example in Portugal, where the first ten years do not tax the pension of those who move there. The proposal of the League is to use part of these thousand thousand billions to copy Portugal and make exempt the lives of pensioners in the regions of the South of our country: Calabria, Puglia, Sicily, Campania, Sardinia, which are even more beautiful, with all respect for Portugal. [[Comments]] Oh, my goodness! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't worry, talk to me. I get it, but it's hard to talk. If you want to say that Giuseppe Conte is better than Pope Francis, say so yourself, but if we have something to criticize, can we do so in this House, since the integration fund you have not yet paid and the money in the bank have not yet given it? Can we do that, underneath? [[Applause]] School, tax cuts, cutting red tape, justice, digitization of courts, fast process and possibly separation of careers to avoid new Palamara cases. [[Applause]] Separating careers: who judges, judges; who investigates, investigates. On pensions, please do not go back to the Fornero law, you do not need a scientist to understand that under this agreement there is the cancellation of 100 quota and the return to the Fornero law. Share 100 has given life, hope and future to 300,000 women and men in this country, has allowed so many young people to start working in this country, if someone thinks to cancel 100 quota and return to that cage that is the Fornero law, the League will make barricades inside and outside Parliament, because to the Fornero law, for what concerns us, it is not possible to return, it would be an absolutely unacceptable social injustice. I'd like to give you two last thoughts, then you guys, since you're celebrating. The first is that you could use part of this money, since health care is at the center of these funds, to increase the number of scholarships for boys and girls graduates in medicine, who today have to go abroad to become doctors. Finally, the second reflection, in order to be at the news, is that you must not forget, politely, the Forces of Order. Today, alas, the Carabinieri's weapon is on the front pages of the newspapers because for the first time in history a Carabinieri's barracks was seized and sealed, in Piacenza, where we were investigated and arrested. As a former Minister of the Interior, I repeat that those who err, pay and those who err in uniform pay as and more than others, but this does not serve anyone to attack, disarm or muddle our Forces of Order, our women and our men in uniform. [[Applause]] I tell you this because, in order to avoid deaths and injuries both among the forces of order and among the captors, we had introduced the experimentation of the taser, the gun with electrical impulses. Everything was ready, the experiment was over, then, a circular of the Ministry of the Interior of these hours not only blocks the expansion of the use of the electric gun that works all over the world, but also asks for the return of the devices that had been given experimentally to the Forces of Order. I would not want there to be a prejudice behind it that wants to disarm our Forces of Order, which instead must be helped, encouraged and accompanied. I feel like I've given more than one cue for using this money. I wish you good work, because if you do a good job it's good news for all Italians. The only problem, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is that much of this money will come in the coming years, you told us. The first loans, if all goes well, will reach 2021 advanced. I tell you one thing that anyone who turns Italy at this moment touches with hand: for many businesses, for many VAT matches, for many artisans, for many families and for many moms and dads, the economic problem is now, it is not in 2021. The money that will come tomorrow could do nothing because we risk losing a million jobs in the coming months. Pending the beneficial help of Mother Europe, Italy does everything that other European governments are doing, we help families and businesses now, because tomorrow might be too late and we risk having nothing to celebrate. Good luck to you, but above all good luck to Italy, because we have heard too many promises in recent months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u78	She is registered to speak Senator Ricciardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u79	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let us come back to us after seeing that Mr Salvini has spoken about everything but the subject for which we are here at the moment. [[Applause]] The path is certainly not over, but today the ideal of Europe that was cultivated in Ventotene, at a time as difficult as history, is closer. This great result, President Conte, has been achieved thanks to its capabilities and the shore, the push, the support that the Movimento 5 Stars has constantly guaranteed. The 5 Star Movimento - I want to reiterate clearly - for years it has been conducting a battle that has helped to make the soil from which change finally begins to sprout more fertile. The agreement reached at European level, after days of very tiring negotiations, introduces for the first time a sharing of future debt to finance the recovery fund. This idea, born in the mid-1990s, by Jacques Delors, the subject of decades of endless debates and so far always shipwrecked against the egoisms of some member countries, today becomes reality. A reality, of course, that still needs to be developed, but the affirmation of the principle and its first application are a fundamental step. Italy is benefiting from the largest share of the recovery fund, 209 billion euros, which are 28 percent of the 750 billion, as you pointed out earlier, all of which are involved in the plan. In addition, within this figure, the 82 billion grants, which are confirmed for Italy, represent the highest budget compared to other European partners. Within the 209 billion, it is true that the component of loans is the most important; a component that, we know, for a country that has a public debt that travels around 160 percent of the ratio with GDP is certainly not the most manageable instrument. However, it is the whole recovery fund approach that needs to be evaluated. The issue of triple A securities by the Commission, i.e. with the maximum rating, is in itself capable of bringing down the temperature on our securities and their cost. In addition, recovery funds can replace a share of capital expenditure, i.e. investments, which would otherwise have been financed by much more expensive Italian government debt securities. It is also true that the resources deriving from the recovery will have to be returned, but on favorable terms and with a very long duration. President, we have received a very important result, given the conditions of departure and especially given the attitude that some countries have had until the end. You deserve to have emphasized a certain hypocrisy in the countries of the North, in the Netherlands, which, on the one hand, disavowed their Calvinist culture of formican frugals and, on the other hand, have tax and regulatory havens inside which every year they take huge resources away from the partners of the European Union. [[Applause.]] You will then have seen, Mr President, that the result achieved at the European summit has begun to create some cracks even in the reactions of the oppositions. Next to the Brothers of Italy, who could not help but notice that you came out of the negotiations, there is the increasingly confused propaganda of the League, which speaks of scam as big as a house. Yet a great European friend and ally of the League, that Geert Wilders who before the summit went around with a sign with above written "Not a penny to Italy," commented the agreement saying that the European Union made a gift to Italy, assigning them 82 billion lost money. The position of the Dutch ally of the League is among the most evident evidence of the success achieved by the Government and the convulsive propaganda of the main opposition party. [[Applause]] In fact in the last week, with the dismantling of the business system grown around Autostrade and with the obtaining of the recovery fund, the Government and the Movimento 5 Stars have obtained two fundamental results for the interest of all Italians. Mr President, let us go on without taking too much care of the background noises, let us go on with the increased credibility of the Government and Italy, with the recognition of the role of fundamental interlocutor in all the major European decisions. The European Union, with the recovery fund agreement, has opened a very important way for us to invest in sectors that represent historical objectives of the 5 Star Movement, such as the environment, digital and energy transition. It's up to us now to put the money on the ground quickly. We are working with an ambitious plan within the simplification decree, which has the merit of speeding up a whole series of procedures and introducing an innovative system of monitoring public works. At the same time, Mr President, we also believe that Italy must feed its own channel of resource retrieval, a self-financing plan that allows the country to loosen a certain dependence on the financial markets. We have a country to get back on track after the most dramatic global economic crisis since 1929. This is the moment of responsibility, not of chatter, not of misinformation or propaganda; let us let these things be done to others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u80	Senator Unterberger is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u81	Mr President, Mr Conte, for about 90 hours, citizens and markets had their eyes on the European Council at which the future of the Union was at stake. Despite initially very distant positions, a compromise was found that allowed all actors to say they were satisfied. In short, it is a historic moment for Europe, but also for Italy, which now has the opportunity and the means to develop its full potential. I think that I am not exaggerating with great skill in the negotiations, as has also been recognized by the foreign press and even by the opposition. I would not like to compare it with Pope Francis, but I would say that he did a great job. [[Applause]] There are very few left to say that an agreement that brings to Italy 81 billion euros lost and 127 billions of loan with a low interest rate is a fraud. Perhaps for the sovereignists the fact that the great enemies of their narration, the Merkels and Macrons, have been spent on Italy has turned out to be a fraud. Among other things, Mr President, your colleagues, when they returned home, were harshly criticized by the sovereignists at home (dai Wilders, by AfD), who said that a great gift was given to Italy; Wilders simultaneously told a people of tax evaders. I think then that the sovereignists must clarify their ideas. [[Applause]] The recovery fund is either a big rip-off or a gift for Italy and a rip-off for frugal countries; both are a bit difficult. [[Applause]] However today at least we have been clarified on the reasons why Senator Salvini continues to post situations in which he eats: he explained to us that man is the one who eats. [[Applause]] In fact it is also the fault of sovereignism if this negotiation has been so long and difficult. Let us not forget that Kurz and Rutte, but also the Scandinavian countries, have a strong anti-European opposition. In Holland soon there will be elections and therefore they had to defend themselves from the propaganda of their own home. However, it is true that in all these years Italy has certainly not shined for the use of European resources, for the attention to public finances or for reforms capable of modernising the system and this does not depend only on the financial means, because simplification costs nothing. Therefore, it seems logical and also fair that there are forms of supervision of how each country will spend these resources: this protects all European citizens, who have the right to have the maximum benefit from the money of this common debt, because the most important point is that Europe, for the first time in its history, has accepted a mutualisation of the debt. President Conte, as the English adage quoted today by the "Corriere della Sera" says: Be careful what you want, because you might have it. Indeed, now the most difficult phase is perhaps coming: will Italy be able to spend the resources at its best and to make the reforms that have been expected for at least twenty years? From here to October we need a plan that will have to be detailed and contain for each single intervention feasibility studies and cost detail. Regions and autonomous provinces must be involved, both in the development and in the management of projects. At the same time, we must not deceive ourselves that the surface that Mark Rutte wanted came out of the picture. We are the country that will receive the most aid and loans and, therefore, how we manage them will depend on the credibility of the entire operation. Then, as you often say these days, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must run, we must be quick and courageous in the challenge of bureaucracy and corruption. We really have the historical possibility to become a model for relaunching after this dramatic crisis and I hope that all this will happen with the contribution of the responsible oppositions, because this is not the moment of controversy and divisions: it is the time to write a new page, that of a more just and modern Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u82	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciriani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u83	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, Senators, these days the question that has been most frequently addressed to me and my colleagues in the Brotherhood of Italy has been: "But you and your party on which side are you, for whom are you cheering?" Assuming that this was a sporting competition, for which there were the fans, it is a question that I have always called silly, because it has only one answer: we are on the side of Italy, of those who represent Italy in international fora, of those who have the pro-tempore burden of representing the country that is also and especially my country, our country. We have said this and we repeat it again on this occasion, because for us the defense of national interest is not a rhetorical expedient, but it is the first and main reason why we founded our party and gave it the name it has, Brothers of Italy. I believe that we have demonstrated on many occasions, even with the capacity to prevent the political positions that have taken place over time, that the defence of national interest has not been a fashion. We defended the national interest even when they said that the ESM was an instrument that served the German banks and certainly not the Italian banks. We defended national interests when Italy was left alone for years to deal with the emergency of illegal immigrants coming from North Africa, abandoned to itself: Europe was not there at the time or simply pretended to be there. We have also defended our national interests by attacking, by making names and surnames, the so-called or so-called frugal countries, but they cultivate internal tax havens that have very little of frugal, if I may afford. We were the first - President Conte, I think it will be noted - to have put forward to the Government the proposal, which he then made his own, to introduce the golden power, that is, an instrument that allows the State and the Government to defend its strategic infrastructures from the hostile aggression of foreign countries or speculative funds. So our attitude today is exactly that of yesterday and the day before yesterday; it is simply a factor of coherence and we, on coherence, have built the consensus of this party. Then there is another, much more practical reason why we have been rooting for Italy, and it is a metapolitical reason, or - to be more trivial - that has nothing to do with politics: I believe that no person of common sense and no one who does politics inside and outside this House can hope that Italy will suffer a political, social and economic collapse from which we could not leave but as a country reduced to rubble. No one - even those who are in opposition and who are candidates to rule this country in the future - can wish to govern a country reduced to ruin; this is certainly not the ambition of Brothers of Italy. Our country is already facing a very serious social and economic emergency; a country bent by a fearful pandemic, to which it does not need to add the flow of speculative funds that come to steal our family jewelry, nor the will of someone to reinstate - fictitiously or from the window - conditionality that have come out the door. President Conte, there is one question that I want to ask you honestly, going beyond triumphalism, some of which honestly out of place and excessive in this House. The agreement that you - our country, Italy - have reached protects us from this tragic and frightening scenario? The answer I give is that I am not sure at all. It will be time to show whether what you are telling us today is the salvation of Italy or, simply, a postponement of unfortunately unavoidable problems. In any case, we - as I say and President Meloni has already told you - recognize you today that our country, which was in danger of being overwhelmed by that negotiation, has come out standing. Of course, it could have been much better and it's also a little strange to read the statements of national and international leaders who say that everyone has won and nobody has lost. It's hard to see which side the truth is on. It is certainly a compromise that does not alter our judgment on the political action of your Government and its Ministers by an inch, which remains extremely negative for what you have done - or, rather, you have not done - in the months of pandemics and economic crisis. It is a negative judgment due to the too many announcements, the few facts, the poor results and the too many walkways that justify us in the very cautious attitude compared to the excessive optimism that we record in the last hours. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I should also like to say - and I am a moment away from the subject of this debate - that the negative judgment against your Government is very justified by the behaviour of some of your ministers. I'll make a brief parenthesis. There are forty days left before the beginning of the school year and the country still doesn't know if the schools will open. This too has a lot to do with the ability of our country to show itself to be fully and truly European. With school in disarray, it is difficult to ask in Europe for treatment worthy of a civilized country. Maybe some ministers should think if they don't want to change jobs soon. In addition to this parenthesis, which was necessary, I want to make his own the words with which he also invited oppositions to reasonings that emerge from the logic of opposition, trenches and positions due, so those who are in opposition speak ill of the Government and those who are in government speak ill of the opposition. With the same intellectual honesty, I ask you whether it is true - I believe it is not - that what you have faced is a clash between the good guys of the European Union, the good guys (the pro-Europeans and the European People's Party), and the bad sovereigns. Or is the opposite true, namely that the worst enemies of Italy have met them among the members of the People's Party and of the liberal area, those who are friends of your Government in European fora? And is it not true - think about it for a moment - that, if there had not been our very strong pressure, our criticism and the demands of the right-wing forces in recent months and years, those which we call with contempt even so subtle sovereign forces, would Europe still stand still at the ESM? And I am not referring to the ESM without supposed conditionality, but to the ESM in the Greek version, the one with the troika and the imposition of austerity regimes that have burdened a free country like Greece for many years. It was our activity that prompted Europe to wake up and understand that it could not go on in this way. You have rightly pointed out that some 200 billion, among those allocated overall to the recovery fund, will have our country as their destination. But let me say that between saying and doing there is a sea, a sea of trouble, traps, unknowns, things we do not know and things we have not understood; and who knows who really understood how things will go. On the first point I would like to mention, I do not think anyone has spoken yet: I am referring to the new taxes introduced to finance the recovery fund. Mr President, I have read - you deny me if I say something incorrect - that from 1 January 2021 the plastic tax will be introduced, a plastic tax that will hit our producers heavily. There are 11,000 Italian plastic producers that guarantee 30 billion turnover each year. There was a willingness to introduce plastic tax, but there was no willingness to introduce the sacrosanct tax on the web, in the absence of which web giants can compete unfairly against Italian and European companies that do not belong to the narrow circle of web giants. Then there is the question of ways and times, which is essential, because money should not be promised, but paid out in certain times, beyond which a financing serves little or nothing. We have not yet understood, even though you have been very reassuring, how this emergency brake will work, and whether it will be reason and condition for the Netherlands, Germany or the country on duty to impose on us again or try to impose a heavy conditionality on the tax regime, pensions, health care or what we have seen in recent years. Mr President, there has been a frightening pandemic in this country and throughout the continent. Only in the face of hundreds of thousands of deaths has the European Union finally realized that it was necessary to put an extraordinary instrument in place. The 1,500 billion envisaged by the European Central Bank has been reduced to just over half. I would like it to be clear that the position of Brothers of Italy is not going to ask for a courtesy, a favor, a shortcut from the European Union. The Italian people have their dignity and claim it; they do not ask to have something different from what they owe them, but they ask to have tools to get up, to be able to work, to return to be competitive and to be able to honor their debts, as they have always done in these decades, and they do not accept lessons from those who are unable to provide them, because they do not have the ethical conditions to be able to do so, even if they define themselves pure and frugal. Italy, however, cannot even distinguish itself once again as a bad example. I defend my country, but I cannot defend it in the face of a reality that speaks a different language and which unfortunately corresponds to a different reality. I am referring to the fact that the latest budgetary deviations that your Government has demanded in Europe have served not for investment, but for current expenditure, for electoral expenditure, for the expenditure used to buy consent. This can no longer happen, because I believe, Mr President - if you are honest, you must admit it - that even in Europe they have seen the footage of your ministers celebrate from the balcony of Palazzo Chigi the cancellation by decree of poverty with the income of citizenship, the income of emergency, the hiring of navigators paid to do nothing. This image hurts our country [[Applause]] , because it returns the image of a country that is not serious and reliable. But Italy is much better than this, fortunately, and it has many hundreds and thousands of workers and companies who want to show that they are up to it. With regard to tax deadlines, the Government refused to accept a slight postponement of the deadlines. Why did you do that? Did you do this because the government is made up of people who have contempt for accountants, professions and businesses, or because this government needs even eight billions immediately, cash, and can't give up even those? If this is the truth, it means that we need money now, and not money promised but that we can really use. And it means that the condition of our country does not allow dreams of glory, but imposes choices not only forward-looking, but also absolutely fast. Mr President, I have concluded even though there were other things I wanted to say. Time is gallant man and as always will make clarity of promises, triumphalisms and announcements. There is, however, another more serious problem: Italy has no more time to wait for. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u84	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u85	Mr President, I am very clear that we are not triumphant: we are recognizing the outcome of the European summit. And we have to tell you that it is a historic achievement, because it can give, for the first time, the opportunity to change not only our country, but also Europe. We have never spared - as the President knows and knows who knows me in this House - criticism of Europe when it showed the face of austerity and rigidity and when - for example - in the sovereign debt crisis it failed to bring about a solution such as today's. We and our country know what the consequences were. Other countries in Europe know what the consequences of Europe's own rigid idea have been. We were critical with Europe when the same - on which I shall return - was no longer linked to the dream, to the European project, to a political idea of Europe and was simply reduced to intergovernmental agreements. Precisely because we have been so critical, we have never abandoned and this has been the strength of this country, this Government and this majority, which have not only never succumbed to sovereignist temptations or strange alliances, but have also pursued to the full the idea of strong Europe and political Europe. This result is also the result of our position, which we have never abandoned in recent months. We now have the opportunity to change Europe, because it has proved itself in these long days, which you, Mr President, have summarized and told us, even with harsh and dramatic moments, that we can take a step forward; we can overcome the intergovernmental logic and unanimity. We can overcome and block the idea of vetoes; we can really build a force of the European institutions. On this result I have no problem with adjectives and we must write it to this Government and to you, President of the Count Council, also because you believed it when, even in Europe, few believed it. I would like to recall the initiative, the work and the letter made with other countries, also bringing France and Germany to these positions. The eurobonds, when they were launched as an idea, seemed like a mirage. Who thought they could be guaranteed by the European budget? Today, however, all this is a reality. Can we say that everything is done? Absolutely not. I have indicated two roads, and meanwhile the road to pursue. At this moment, Italy has gained a great deal of credibility and respect in Europe; it can do its utmost as a driving force, together with other countries, thanks also to the ability it has had to build alliances, to relaunch the project of European integration with force. The clash with the so-called frugal countries - the young blonds, as I call them - from what was it originated? It was not only the defence of their privileges, which they tried to do to the end - and something they obviously also got - but also the idea that those countries have sought to block a European integration project. This was also the element of the confrontation in Europe, a very strong political element. For this reason, the result is important; for this reason the result marks - in our opinion - a significant turning point. And we have played our role as a founding country, a country that has always believed us. I have heard frankly out of place speeches in this House, so I sometimes think, Mr President, that if we were to sit on Fridays and Saturdays too, perhaps it would be better, because long weekends sometimes give a little to the head and we also lose clarity in our reasoning. Why do I say it's inappropriate? Many have left, but let's think about the scenario of a year ago. Colleagues, if there were another government in Europe today, with the sovereign proclamations, would we have achieved 209 billion? That is the question I ask everyone. You have to be intellectually honest to recognize it. The critics say the funds won't come, then we'll see, they're a loan. Colleagues, it is a result that all other countries recognize us as well. How can you not fully understand that? Is it all done? No. Of course it's up to us now. Now we have to put in place an anti-crisis plan, a recovery plan, a resource use plan that is a powerful tool for our country. President Conte, you know me and you know what my obsessions are. Here I have heard some old accents compared to old reforms; a rhetorical way of thinking about the past. We must look to the future, but to do so, to focus on modernity, to modernise this country, the key, President, you know it. Without hesitation and without hesitation, we must embark on the path of green transition and ecological conversion. It is an instrument on which we can be in tune with the conditionality of Europe that we like. We like that conditionality, because it can lead us to drive. We have certainly not been happy - for example - with the cut in climate funds, even if they were used in a certain way; therefore, all the more so, today we have to stand in the field. Next generation EU what does it tell us? The key axes are green new deal, digital innovation. That is what we must absolutely run about. This is the real modernization of the country. We do not think - and you, President Conte, I know perfectly well that you do not think so and you are on the right path - that you can come out of the crisis, a very strong crisis for our country, at the social and employment level, for many sectors, putting in place old recipes. Colleagues, you don't have to go back to normal, because normality was the problem, it was one of the problems. We need to look ahead and have a great ability. I have discovered, in these difficult months, the Italian talents, the patents that are being registered, and the Minister knows that. Really, there are so many talents, and great is the capacity for innovation. We must focus on this, certainly with a parliamentary debate. I have no doubt about it. Each of us can contribute. Opposition can work with us to make the leap of quality forward. This is our bet. The result that the Government has achieved, that you, President Count, have obtained, in the long and tiring negotiation, will give, however, so much hope to the Italians. You put your trust back on the line at a difficult and complicated time, and we thank you for that too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u86	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u87	Mr President, as well as thank you, perhaps it is also important to remember very quickly that the agreement reached, which is a good agreement, also contains interesting numbers. And the numbers are important, since the delegations have come to terms with this. I would also like to say this in relation to some of the speeches I listened to earlier. The result gives us a very ambitious tool. We know how many billions are being mobilised, both for loans and subsidies, but I just want to add a thought on this. For our country there is one more element in this understanding, which is important to emphasize. For the first time, Italy will move from the position of net contributor to that of net beneficiary of the EU budget. We're gonna get more money than we pay. President Conte, just for this, as a trade unionist historian, I say thank you. The best deal possible is exactly that. The Democratic Party, not today, but always believed in Europe. We always have: often, unfortunately, alone. We also believed it when, like many times in recent years, we criticized choices, rigidities, positions that obviously stood in the field. We have criticized, but we have never stopped being pro-Europeans, because we continue to believe and work for the dream of Altiero Spinelli and Delors - as some have mentioned - and that is a community, human and political Europe, as well as an economic Europe. We believe in a Europe of solidarity, cohesiveness, attentive to rights, to work, to education, that is to say to the mobilizing factors to overcome inequalities. This understanding - in my opinion - has indeed been carried out from this point of view. That is why we are satisfied and satisfied today. It's not a party day. No: we are satisfied and not really satisfied means being far from the interests of Italians and Europeans. We are because the result obtained by our country is really important, thanks to the consistency, quality, determination and convergence capacity that has been determined with the entire government team. You have done well, Mr Conte, even if it is not usual in politics, to thank in particular Mr Amendola, who has helped you particularly in the complex negotiations, because that is how it works in the negotiations. It was also important to do so in a context where, previously, we had put authoritative people in European spaces. This, in fact, also contributed to the result. However, we are also satisfied with the signal that the whole of Europe has been able to give, with a reversal of the perspective that we have been hoping to achieve for years. I want to make this observation, also for the work that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does and is trying to do. This is a historic agreement. I would like to stress that it is historical. And then we'll tell each other differently. But if you don't catch the changes in the field, it means that we keep thinking that it's like the day before. No: change is historic, because Europe has finally shown itself to be there and again - in my opinion - finally there is Europe. It has shown that Europe, a political-unitarian entity, has the responsibility to choose politically that, unitedly, we can determine the choices that follow. As someone said before me, this agreement is the victory of politics, of an ability also of method of politics, that is to confront other countries and other subjects. I want to take up here a reflection by Senator Casini who has convinced me a lot: although political families are articulated, divided and weak, we have been able, on a ground of convergence of common interests, to determine a historical turning point. See that this is a serious element and we should all be aware from this point of view that the turning point is in this political choice, because that is what gives responsibility. But it also gives us the reason why we are in a Parliament, both national and European, and why we obviously correspond to those who elected us and to the historical phases that we are experiencing. I think this is really an important point. Why do I say that it is also a victory of the method of politics? I say this because they have won the dialogue, the search for points of unity, the overcoming of all outrage towards the constructive attitude. When it comes to negotiations, of course, we are looking for points of contact: a method of politics. Mr President, I think it is right in this House - and I too, for my political history on the left - to recall that an important fact has taken place. Of course, there was the quality of our delegation - but in my opinion - the choice of an authoritative member of the negotiation, Angela Merkel, was also crucial. There was also a coincidence in the connection with Germany, which you have exercised with us; of course, even the French, the Spanish and the Portuguese, but I think that your choice, which was the most demanding of your country, marked a turning point in designing the new Europe. I think it is right that this House should be able to recognise this to a policy such as Angela Merkel. But now it's up to us. Mr President, Government, I would add that I believe that those who have said here - and we have said so on other occasions, when preparing the delegation for negotiation - are right that we cannot go wrong. There is a point of seriousness, responsibility and attention that we must all have. Not to be mistaken is also to be able to read the complex reality of today, not with yesterday's eyes. We must know that this opportunity for reform and innovation is the historic opportunity that - as Paolo Gentiloni Silveri says - happens twice in the history of the lives of many, it does not happen often. This is the opportunity to overcome the gap that our country has with respect to the economy and the location that it wants to have inside the European financing paths. They are not words, when it comes to priority over intangible and material infrastructure; immaterial infrastructure means the knowledge chain, which is the greatest fundamental interweaving for quality employment and work. [[Applause]] If we don't have this vision, even the steps, one after the other, that we make are old. I want to say this also to those who use the words of Made in Italy: all the made in Italy, the whole supply chain needs the transversality of innovation, needs to overcome the digital gap. Otherwise, our internationalization will not have this condition. Mr President, allow me to conclude by calling for deep attention. A few minutes ago Istat reiterated that this country, in addition to the horizontal gaps, between North and South, has a fundamental gap to overcome: the gap in the employment of women and young people. [[Applause]] This is a transversal axis: if we talk about fashion, if we talk about digital, we must say what are the subjects to which we make a real investment; otherwise they are just talk and we will not be able to overcome the real gaps, the gender, generation and even territory differentials. This is a decisive point for the sustainability and implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda. President of the Council, I say this to you, to the whole Government and to Parliament: come with the debate in this House and, please, the choices we have to make on priorities, bring the ex ante impact assessment to the gender gap. [[Applause]] If you bring it, this Parliament will debate and - in my opinion - will find all the solutions between majority and opposition, because the choice will be authentic; otherwise, we risk seeing the future of this country again by sectors, without understanding instead that the gaps to be overcome are horizontal to the whole of our nation. However, since you have made good negotiations, if I may, I am confident and trust in politics is the precondition for a country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u89	Mr President, illustrious members of the Government, fellow senators, to be clear and avoid misunderstandings, as an Italian citizen, representative of this Parliament and representative of a political movement, I am very pleased with the outcome of the Brussels Summit. To be equally clear, however, Mr Conte, you have crossed the threshold of this House accompanied by sounds of trumpets and drum rolls, with the smile of those who have won a war: dual error, Mr Conte. Meanwhile, the war has yet to begin - and I stress this - and you still have to be measured in substance about your political abilities. If, after four days and four nights of negotiation, the summit of the Heads of State and Government concluded with an agreement that displeased to a large extent the so-called frugal countries, it was thanks not to your experience in conducting negotiations in Europe nor to the particular authority of the Government that you lead, but to the German Chancellor Angela Merkel. She - not by virtue, but by general condition, she is at the end of her term and at the end of her career - was able to afford the luxury of responding to her political conduct in the face of history, and not only to the German electorate: that is why very much indeed has changed within the European framework, and very much indeed; what is being achieved, in part, is being achieved, with different hints and tones, for decades we have been hoping for. Europe has always been divided in the face of all the major global crises (whether on 11 September, migrants or sovereign debts): for the first time, the budgetary and monetary constraints - rightly so much criticized - have fallen; for the first time, funds lost in the interests of States are being provided; for the first time, politics and its logic enter into European dynamics. This is an opportunity to be seized. To those who regret an alleged age of gold in national sovereignism, I remind you that during the first Republic Italian sovereignty was qualified by an adjective that was not edifying, that is "limited": ours was a limited sovereignty. The truth, ladies and gentlemen - you know this and we know this - is that Italy, throughout the period of the so-called first Republic, was kept in shape by the international system, not by virtue of our virtues or capacity as a government, but because we had at home the largest and strongest communist party in the West, because we were bordering on the Soviet bloc in the East. It is no coincidence that, together with the Berlin Wall, the first Republic has come down and that, from that moment on, our political, institutional and economic system has no longer found a balance. This is therefore the great challenge facing us: to overcome prejudice, which is unfortunately not new to Italy. The cute Dutch premier Rutte thinks today what Merkel thought yesterday, which is what the great travelers have always thought that between the '600 and '800 crossed the Belpaese to make the grand tour and noted on their diaries not edifying judgments about our capacity for self-government; the same thing Leopardi wrote and the best minds of Italian journalism (the Flaiano, the Maccari or the Longanesi). Something like this evidently also thought of those who, until recently, theorized secession, without confidence therefore in national unity or in the capacity for self-government of at least half of the nation. We have to earn that trust. I find it hard to believe that you can, alone and with such a fragile majority, succeed in this task which is titanic. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are in debt and it is reasonable to imagine that, within a couple of years, the Italian debt will reach 180 per cent; if it does not succeed, if the ruler will not succeed in ensuring that GDP will also grow at the same time, it will be the ruin of Italy. The great amount of money that will come sooner or later - because it will come, we know - may be a great resource or may be our definitive ruin, because interest rates will rise, the spread scissors will widen, international investors will escape and at that point there will be no more appeal for Italy. What a troika! Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that money must be spent well, according to growth, not in scooters or welfare. You're called today to do what you didn't guiltyly until yesterday. I believe that any President of the Council, in the face of such a great global crisis, even more so if not elected and if it is based on a fragile majority in Parliament and is no longer a majority in the country, at the beginning of the crisis he should have felt the institutional duty to convene oppositions and agree (not to communicate) the necessary measures to the country, because the choices he makes, that he has made and - all the more reason - that he will make this Government and its missed choices of the past, present and future will depend on the future of the nation for the next decades. We can't afford mistakes. So, my appeal and our appeal is to immediately change method. You have three short-term challenges: the vote on budgetary deviation, the vote on the ESM - Mr Conte, let's call it Ugo, let's solve the problem, let's all the ideological prejudices fall: this is an opportunity to be seized - and the investment plan. That investment plan must be agreed, because it is too sensitive for the future of the nation to be left to a political side, as it will be the future of all of us. Mr. President Conte, now or never [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u91	Mr President, I have heard Mr President-in-Office talk about Europe's timely response to our problems. I have seen that, six months after the start of the emergency, there has been a meeting and a political agreement has been reached with the outlines still undefined in order to obtain, in about ten months' time, the sums that we will probably also need. That is not my definition of "time" but, moreover, my definition of "powerful" is somewhat different from that of the President-in-Office of the Council, who has his own vocabulary, but certainly consistent. What worries this opposition, which wants to be responsible, is that we would like to be convinced that we are facing a historical step and to see a film different from that of 2012. However, to be convinced, we should do one thing: for example, we should not read the papers or the international press. It was good for those before me to argue that it is part of the good government to feed hopes in the nation and in the electoral corps, provided they are not vain. For example, I confess to you, Mr President-in-Office, my limitations as an economist and as a person trying to read the papers, because the figure of 209 billion that you hear so much about in the documents available, particularly in the conclusions adopted by the Council, has failed to find out. What can be found is seen in the analyses that have made economists familiar with this subject; for example, I think of Dr. Silvia Merler, certainly not a legist. With a series of estimates declared by the European Commission, we can come to the reasonable assumption that Italy could have about 80 billion subsidies, but we also need to make a truth operation. We should perhaps remember that the European Union's budget is a zero-balance budget and that, therefore, if 750 billion go out, 750 billion go in, so we cannot talk about the 209 billion that would allegedly arrive at Italy, without it being for tabulas, without clarifying how many years and how much Italy takes, because when you go to do this calculation and you evaluate it as a whole, as our President-in-Office would say, in a package logic what happened in Brussels, you can see that in reality Italy remains a net contributor to the project and that therefore it may also be that these loans help solve a liquidity problem, but they are still loans that we pay; no one is giving us anything. A certain triumphalist tone towards a Europe that will no longer be as it was, is therefore, in my opinion, disproved: in reality, Europe is more than first intergovernmental and has seen it in the dynamics of the negotiations; it is less and less federal, because it would be federal a Europe that could decide to go into deficit and not mere redistribution, it would be federal a hypothesis such as Wolfgang Müncau, a German who would not like to be German and writes in the 'Finncial Times', one of the most authoritative commentators of the European economy, that would really go that way and it would be truly federal a Europe that would ask in the treaties those changes necessary to legitimize its tax capacity and to legitimize, with a basis in the Treaties, the common debt issues, which so far are destined to remain one-off from the sufficiently undefined contours. We therefore have a loan that does not solve our liquidity problems, but this is also quite normal, because the plan that Europe is proposing is dedicated to the next generation of Europe. What we would like to understand is how we arrive at the next generation in the framework of unravelling the socio-economic fabric of the country that many colleagues have highlighted. I will be grateful, therefore, if I may address the technical staff of the President of the Council and have the evidence from which this figure of 209, because it is not a banality. When the Italians realize that we haven't actually discovered the treasure chest of gold zecchini, I think there will be a bounce. In fact, it seems to me that the film is exactly the same: we have a majority that is today, by chance, the same one that had supported the completion of the Banking Union as a historic step and that exulted for this decisive step of Europe. The opposition is also the same: we said to be careful because there was the bail in, which was a dangerous thing. Those who were right have said it in history and we are still grieved about it, because we have not forgotten the victims of that catastrophe, and those who are right today will say it in history. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u92	Senator Perilli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u93	Mr President, I see that even today none of your detractors, if we can call them that, are critical of your action in Europe, have been willing to recognize anything. But all right, all right, the applause that you have received and which has received it in the House by the majority, to which the opposition responds what I might call a howl. This well represents, I would say almost plastically, two different situations: who applauds it recognizes that in its action of government and in the way in which it has brought the country into European consideration there is a courageous, determined work and among other things in the interest of the country, but this thing has not been understood, because we focus on men, on people, in this case, among other things, it is the representative of one of the highest institutions that comes to report, so it was also wrong to personalize and you clarified it well in your speech. But I also try to identify myself with those who listen to us live and those who try to understand what happened. Those who follow us will wonder what the advantages are, what has happened in Europe and why the opposition, beyond its usual exploitation of an opposition that does its job, is so angry. I have an answer for both things; then, in the first case, with the approval of the recovery fund - among other things, if we use a recovery plan, people also understand the meaning and the deep sense of this word that contains, the outcome of what was a collective tragedy, the intention and the planning to come out of it by giving answers - we have first of all the issue of common debt. This means a very simple thing; when you do debt, as someone said, in a unified vision, you do it from a perspective of sharing. It does not seem to me that this has ever been a result not even previously touched on by those who have implemented these policies. [[Applause]] The second is a gradual overcoming - which is in progress, but is already at an important point in the road - of austerity and the damage it causes. The third, equally important, is the consideration of Italy, which becomes a key interlocutor in European negotiations and is no longer subordinate to any other country. [[Applause.]] This is the demand that those who always speak of country and country should put before; the fact that we are credible, that behind us there is a government that has reacted to a certain European inertia, at least in the aftermath of the crisis, and that therefore begins a path. Senator Casini said that, as has been said several times to the oppositions, it is not a formal call, but we must work together with a united vision of Europe. Was this united vision of Europe there before? How was it implemented by governments? What did they do concretely to strengthen the country? This is the fundamental point; we can all find ourselves again, but as I said before, we can ask ourselves why then there is so much anger if the results are so discounted and so for the benefit of the Italy Country system. To the people, who have attacked it up to now, it burns to recognize the very simple principle of having achieved a result, if only because they have spent so much in opposition, exploitation and I say insults - if we may say so - that now they are doing it by saying that you fought for Italy and that at least they recognize it. This is not good because it is not a story faithful to what has happened and I would say that in reality they did not recognize the applause because they applaud others, the policies that have distinguished themselves so far. [[Applause]] In fact, if we go to see, in 2011 those who are now attacking it, they are those who within the Berlusconi government - so outside understand us - supported the approval of the ESM and they are those who presented to the Council of Ministers the bill of ratification of the ESM; clearly they cannot say now, but they are always the same. So it's useless that they talk about super MES and recovery funds; they contributed materially, not ideally. They were materially in the chambers of belonging and are the same ones who are here. Let's be clear and good for outsiders. They are also the same ones that, in terms of fiscal policies, also with the Berlusconi government, have led to the increase in VAT from 20% to 21%. It is good that this is known. [[Applause]] Always to remain on the same topic, I make a very brief reference for those who challenged us the inability. On 8 May 2008 Berlusconi swears for the fourth time on the Government. There is a Tremonti government, there are taxes, the tax shield and all the provisions we know. I would therefore have a little restraint in dressing up in the new, also because someone can believe in the game of symbols and things, but you are always the same. Just go over the names and find them. [[Applause.]] On the subject, there is also a balance in the budget. Same institutional disguise; they have introduced a balanced budget and now present the law to abolish it by saying that it is the fault of Count who does not know how to do his job in Europe. Someone important said that history repeats itself or in tragedy, unfortunately, or in farce. I believe that the opposition is really repeating itself in this farce. [[Applause]] And the beautiful rip-off has given them, continuing to always give false signals and false information to the Italian people, who at this moment have the legitimate right - it is not a matter of triumphalism - to recognize themselves in the action of a country that has been asserted, thanks to her, the Movimento 5 Stars and the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u94	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4.30 p.m. with the debate on the motions on the agenda. (The sitting was suspended at 2.50 p.m. and resumed at 434 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u97	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this morning we missed Bruno Modugno in Rome. He was born in Rome in 1933. Journalist, writer, director and author: an intense life and career. He worked for "Il Giornale d'Italia" (Italian newspaper), was head of "Telesera" (Telesera) directed by Ugo Zatterin. In 1964 he began his experience at the Rai and for more than thirty years he was the author and conductor of cultural programs, which those who have white hair still remember, like "Tales from the real", "Pianeta", "Two for seven", "The word and the image", "The dawn of man" together with "Folco Quilici," "Day of Feast", "Arcobaleno", "Summer is an adventure". He was the author and conductor of Rai2's weekly "Morning 2" and of the broadcast "Avventura" which revolutionized the TV of the children, and who at that time was a boy as I remember him. I see a colleague nods, so that means she remembers. He led TG1 in the lead years, the most difficult years in this country. He has shot numerous documentaries dedicated to ethnological research, adventure, environment and even hunting. He directed 21 shows for Rai and directed the movie "Re di macchia" from one of his novels. He was a great mountain enthusiast and also a great hunting enthusiast. At the end of his career, until today, until he died, he was editor-in-chief of the channel 235 of Sky Caccia TV, which he wanted. He was a great friend, a great man, for me a fellow hunter who, precisely for his last television activity, will miss in this country the people of Diana's followers and those true environmentalists who, as he said, are the true guardians of the natural environment for three hundred sixty-five days a year. Your wife's heartfelt condolences. Hello Bruno, thank you for everything you have done with pride and passion, as you said, to the face of those who want us badly, as you taught us. We greet you in many and let the earth be light to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u98	The Presidency joins in its mourning and remembrance.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u99	Before voting on the motions, Mr Puglisi asked for the floor to correct some of the proposed rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u100	Mr President, I would like to correct two rewordings of motion 254. With regard to point 5 of the operative part, the correct wording is as follows: In point 7 of the device, everything remains identical to what was previously read, but the following words are added to the end: "as well as opening a reflection on the possible mandatory nature of the civil service".
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u101	I would ask the motion-makers if they accept the rewordings proposed by the Government. NANNICINI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. CIRIANI (FdI). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u102	Mr President, we do not accept the changes proposed by the Government to remove the last five chapters of the premises because they are going to empty the meaning of our motion and we do not accept the rewording of the commitments that the Government should take because they would change the objective, the aims and what we believe are the youth and active policies at work, which would go in the opposite direction. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u103	Mr President, we welcome the rewording of the points requested by the Government. For points 9 and 10) we are asking for a split vote. In other words, we want to extrapolate from the vote and vote on points 9 and 10) together.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u104	It therefore accepts the rewording and points 9 and 10 of the proposal, on which there was an opinion against it, calls for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u107	MAFFONI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of youth work in Italy is particularly sensitive. According to some institutional sources that refer to the months preceding the coronavirus, our country holds in Europe the non-enviable primacy for youth unemployment and the not equally enviable primacy for not in education, employment, or training (NEET), those discouraged children who do not study and do not work. Just today a figure tells us that there are two million in Italy. Colleagues, it is true that there has been a slight improvement in recent years, but the gap between Italy and the European Union is still very high and concrete and targeted policies must be used to fill this gap. Much must also be done in terms of training: policies need to be taken to combat early school leaving - we are three points above the European average - and to encourage the number of graduates, because there are even 14 points below here. Italy cannot afford to have the lowest youth employment rate at European level: we speak of 56.3% against a European average of 76 percent, in the range between 25 and 29 years. This is the highest rate of young people who do not study and do not work: we are at 29.7 against a European average of 16.6. In short, ours continues not to be a country for young people and, despite the many proclamations, little has been done. Over 320,000 boys and girls between the ages of twenty and thirty-five have left Italy in the decade that is about to end. Many young people often do so without any prospect of return. Added to all this is the crisis linked to the Covid-19, which will bring our country to confront us with an unimaginable scenario until a few months ago. The crisis caused by the coronavirus epidemic has created a huge hole in the Italian economy that, according to the forecasts, is going towards a total decrease of 9.5% in 2020, the worst result since the end of the Second World War. Only a few months ago, before the pandemic, the manufacturing industries in the North had difficulty finding highly specialized or well trained personnel. Unfortunately, the scenario has now completely changed. A scenario that will take place next autumn and that will see our country involved in a potentially disastrous macroeconomic conspiracy, with consequences also in this negative on youth employment and in general. It is enough to think, ladies and gentlemen, that younger workers cannot return to work because they are mainly employed in sectors particularly affected by the economic crisis and in part still involved in the blockade, such as tourism; the situation in the hotel, catering and entertainment sectors is crucial. So what do you guys do? (16:46) (Maffoni followed). We need a change of course, cultural and anthropological, even before political; we need a labour policy aimed at fostering the encounter between supply and demand. We need a different approach; we need to promote dialogue with businesses, which must not be demonized, as someone tends too often to do. We need to abandon welfare policy, which is so dear to this Commission, in order to implement a work policy that rewards merit and desire to do so. In recent months we have witnessed inopportune choices and without any concrete logic; choices resulting from demagogy and electoral consensus, born without any prior comparison with business associations. We have - indeed, you have - thought of solving the problem of youth unemployment. By denying it. You thought that, by implementing the policy of citizenship income, everything would be resolved: an unforgivable cultural short-sightedness, even before politics; a short-sightedness that certainly is not surprising if one thinks that this Executive boasts Ministers who in recent months celebrated the abolition of poverty. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is quite different: the country is increasingly poor, unemployment increases and youth unemployment is bound to do so even more. Abandon, colleagues of the majority, for the good - indeed, for the survival - of our country, some sterile preconceptions that you have wanted to apply over time. Enough with the income of citizenship, which your European allies in these hours (just yesterday) did not appreciate, or with the navigators. Enough with the demonization of work. A new phase - if you are able to do so - will be opened up in which young people will be given a concrete future perspective. Measures are taken to allow companies to resume their productive activity, keeping the workforce intact, paying particular attention to the youth force, among those most at risk, by providing regulatory initiatives aimed at reducing the tax burden on employers who have chosen or choose not to use the Integration Fund. We also hope that there will be prospects for a reduction in contributions to private employers from 1 January 2020 and until 31 December 2021, which will maintain at least 80% of employment levels, especially for young people. These concrete proposals, ladies and gentlemen, contained in our motion for a resolution which we shall be voting on shortly, are essential for the relaunch of work, especially youth work. They are proposals that serve future generations, who do not want assistance, but hope, indeed, the certainty that everyone can be the creator of their own destiny. A country like ours can't deny it. That is why, Mr President, given the partial acceptance by the Government of all the motions tabled, including ours, our vote will be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u110	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to begin my brief speech in explanations of vote on the motion on youth employment, with a phrase by painter Picasso, which I love: it takes a long time to become young, said the great artist. Humbly, I interpret it in the sense that youth, in the artist's idea, is a landing point. It's energy, it's desire to do, it's future, it's change and construction. So I think that the decisions the European Commission is taking, the Commission's communication to the Council, which we quoted this morning, supporting youth employment as a bridge to work for the next generation, make sense of helping young people shape Europe's recovery. If only we think about the investments planned by the Commission on digital and ecological transition, we realize that we must start from the energies and skills of girls and boys. The digital world marks a passage of epoch. We are now facing, in this passage of epoch, also the crisis of post-coronavirus. Of course, we all hope that we can call it post-coronavirus epoch, but this morning many of us, almost all, have quoted data. Since the beginning of the crisis, one in six young people has lost their jobs, because they are sectors such as tourism, the arts, entertainment, catering, which mainly saw the labour of young people, those who are suffering. They're hurting the young people who went to do seasonal jobs. There is no need to read the statistics. We have children, friends, relatives. We know the experiences they tell us. We are political representatives. Seasonal workers are suffering and the apprentices are suffering, because, as we said this morning, with the closure of many training centres, that wonderful experience of inclusion, even in more difficult areas of the country, that was the alternation between school and work, is somewhat denied during this period. In all this, there may be a university crisis. We must deal with this immediately. In fact, 35,000 students are expected to be reduced in registration and inequalities can be aggravated. Those who can, in fact, continue to go to university, while families who have a job crisis and are in more disadvantaged areas can suffer serious consequences. And these are serious consequences for the whole country system, because we could have less educated young people, with a very negative impact on employment. This morning my colleague quoted a term, coined by the Americans, which defined this as the summer of nothing, that is, the summer of nothingness, in which our boys (I too have a son, twenty years old, in the first year of university) are disoriented. They have, in fact, lost the sense of the community, of the exchange between professors and students. They do not have the opportunity to improve or even to experience abroad, as Erasmus is blocked. We must also put this issue at the heart of our policy. We know that in Italy the crisis of post-coronavirus fits in an already difficult framework, with very high youth unemployment, with many young people who do not work and do not study, with many underpaid boys at first employment and with brains on the run. However, I do not think we should look at young people in this way. Woe to look at young people as a weak category! This may be a country's crisis: we cannot look at young people as a weak category. On the contrary, we must change our thinking about young people. We must inform our thoughts on opportunities, access, building a new world, on the energy of the youth labour force. Since thought forms language, our language must also change: it must be based on growth, work, opportunity, future; a language of life and hope. There is no denying, in my opinion, the term 'work', because a negative meaning does not put work at the centre. Of course, there may be stages of life in which people fall into poverty and therefore need subsidies, but it is not the issue that concerns us; what concerns us is always putting development and growth at the centre. Work, therefore, must be the perspective of young people's lives and we have a duty to do so. As the great Troisi said, work is never a word alone, it is always accompanied by something: the work that is not found, the black work. Instead, we have the task of putting work at the heart of our policies. Of course, not all young people are equal, so we have to make different policies between those who are in school and those who need to alternate school and work, among young people who have to choose university courses, young people who are looking at work for the first time, young people who do not study and work and those who put on family and must also have the opportunity to find a job (especially young women), to continue to work and make choices of parenthood, in a country at such low birth rate. We have a duty to make decisive choices. This is the meaning of the motion that we have tabled as Italy Viva, on which we express our vote decisively in favour. We also announce our firm commitment to youth employment in the coming months. There have also been points of contact and contact with the opposition's motions and I believe that this is a very important value: do not split up on some issues. A few minutes ago we listened to President Conte, who was very applauded in this House. We all feel - the President, the Government and we parliamentarians - the enormous responsibility we have. Above all, we must have the courage to choose. These are simple motions, but I think we need to get out of here stronger. The motion on youth employment, in fact, has been included precisely on this day, when, as we said this morning, a good news came for our country, considering all the resources that will come. We'll have to have the courage to choose. This is just a motion, but we will all have to make a commitment to continue along this path. Perhaps we should also overcome - and I address the representatives of the government - the somewhat bureaucratic language, which shifts the problems. The motion must be a strong commitment of Parliament and the Government. Of course, there is time to approve draft laws and discuss government proposals, but the motion also serves to discuss them, so that Parliament is central in some areas. There is, for example, our proposal on civil service: we propose to discuss - as is stated in the motion, in the rewording of the Government - the possibility of making it compulsory. We have not decided this (the motion does not decide), but we know that there are many parliamentary bills and there is a very strong external debate on this subject; we must take advantage of the dramatic experience we have experienced in the crisis linked to coronavirus, which has shown how much we need sociality and social cohesion. I think we need a great job of awareness. As Moro said: "In the depths, it is a new humanity that wants to make itself, it is the irresistible motion of history." Resuming and paraphrasing the great painter again it takes a long time to become young, but I think and have the impression that time is now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u113	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the subject we are debating is very important and it is also very difficult for us to include it simply in the debate, however important, of an act of direction, on which Parliament is expressing itself (i.e. one or some of the motions dealing with the issue of youth employment). I will also try to say something about the definitions that we often use. We also have a responsibility to go much further in this debate, because what we are dealing with today is and should be the heart of the political initiative of this Parliament and the Government that my majority is supporting. I say this because in our speeches we have learned, in these weeks, to argue our reasonings and our reflections as if there were a world before the pandemic and one to be built after the event, if we can call it that has hit our country and the whole world. This is probably a right division, but we often run the risk - and we do so even when we talk about the work and work of the youngest - of referring to the previous phase of the shock that has crossed the world like what we must arrive at, a normality to be regained or a dimension that we jealously have to guard and rebuild after having lost it. We need to be very clear on this point: the world before the pandemic contained in itself enormous contradictions and inequalities - between generations, categories of workers and geographical areas - in which, in a broken world, as someone would have said, there is and there was a big issue that still dramatically invested and invests in the younger demographic cohorts, that is, the new generations. What we are discussing is a generation that long before the Covid-19 has known the dimension of insecurity and uncertainty about its future and we must not consider that phase as an arcadia to which to arrive, because it is not so. Even in the light of the debate we have had today with the President-in-Office of the Council, we should take advantage of the great opportunity that is also offered to us by the resources we discussed this morning (such as the recovery fund) to reconstruct the reasons for a new world that possibly does not resemble that behind us. I think that, when it comes to youth employment, it must be done from three points of view (but of course that is my point of view). The first is that we must finally get rid of the obsession of thinking that work, especially that of young people and young people, can be created by decree, because it is an illusion (and here, Mr President, let me also use some non-low degree of intellectual honesty, because this operation was done by governments both right and left). I am referring to the illusion that by tampering with some of the rules of the labour market, perhaps by fluidising it and making it more flexible, we could facilitate recruitment processes, of generating additional employment compared to the existing one, of new employment. We understood that when we put our hands on labour market rules, without actually simply having the aim of modernising them, but of making them more flexible, we in the end made them precarious. We have precarious employment relationships and in this game to pay the highest price were first and foremost the youngest, who knew, as soon as they entered the world of work, a dimension made up of uncertainty and precariousness. Let's get rid of this obsession and let's put it in the head that work is created through big investments, big industrial policies. I am thinking, for example, of the expression that we often abuse a little and of which we should understand more the content (or rather how to decline it) and that we all use, that is, the ecological transition, the transformation in the environmental sense of the productive organization and of the work. I would like to say that this is probably the key, as long as it is not simply an elitist banner that concerns only some operation in some metropolitan area. The ecological transition, however, can become an element of creating new and good employment and, above all, for the younger, if it has this pervasive aspect, if it becomes truly democratic, that is, if it invests every aspect of our material life. In this sense, therefore, let us free ourselves from the idea - and I also say this to my colleagues about some temptation to do things in the course of this parliamentary term - that work can be created simply by flexibleizing it, all the more so at the stage in which we are entering. Secondly, the great question of precariousness, that dimension which young people, and alas even the less young, have known and know, it is necessary that it be liquid, that it be overcome, because we need to convince ourselves of an element: there is no productivity, neither investment capacity nor even a revival on the part of the productive fabric, without this passing through a bet on human capital and people, therefore on workers and workers, who must however be put in a position to be able to carry out their work to the best and to tie it to the full of skills, to what women and men have studied, have learned; but above all they must have the tranquillity to carry out it knowing that that that work has a dimension of certainty, security, even in relation to the possibility that if a vacuum were to be created, there is a protection system that sustains these workers. In this sense, Mr President, I feel that there is a debate under the skin of this country that also goes through a part of the parliamentary debate, so, precisely in the face of the gigantic social question that is likely to come down, the economic crisis that we obviously have to do everything we can to counter, precisely in the face of this scenario we have to give in to the temptation that work should create it as well as that there can therefore be an exchange between the possibility of beginning to grow again and the rights of workers, of people. We cannot imagine the future, the farthest but also the nearest one, what is coming in the coming months and years, with this formula; on the contrary, I urge my colleagues in the majority to take up again the thread of a reasoning that has to do with some discussions, with some legislative initiatives that need to be taken up again. I am thinking of the issue of equal pay, of the whole question of minimum wages, that is, of the dignity under which people, and above all young people, must not be able to go, of course, to pay a huge price, not only in material terms, but in dignity. Finally, there is a gigantic issue, linked to the issue of youth employment: school, training, universities. This great vacuum that has been determined in the school is a vacuum that our girls and our boys will pay and therefore our task, our responsibility is to allow us to return to school in September, in the presence, and we are working on this ground. However, there is the great theme of higher education, of university education, there are young people who are deciding in these hours to quit university or not to start it. If we accept this dynamic, in Italy after Covid, we are supporting the growth of inequalities already existing, previous, because there are families who are discussing the fact that they can no longer afford to pay tuition fees to their children. When we talk about young people, instead of filling our mouths with so many words, we put proposals on the table that have to do with the right to study, with the lowering if not with the neutralization, for some groups of young people, of university fees and we put in conditions these young people to avoid that the condition of the families of origin can determine their future. If that were true, it would also determine the future of this country. I was saying before the definition of young people: perhaps we use this term with a somewhat too paternalistic approach. We should refer to young people not as one category among others, but as if it were a social class, if it allows me in the gramsciano sense, that is, a class to emancipate, because if we emancipate the young, I would say if we politicize them, if they become aware of their own condition, we will have emancipated also a country that, in that case, would have clearer its own destiny and future. That is why we will vote on the first-signed motion by Senator Parente and of course we will avoid voting on the motions which introduce those elements which we obviously do not want to be put at the centre of the debate as that of precariousness, because it is blackmail that young people must refuse and therefore we must reject too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u116	NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, I rise to announce the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of the motion tabled by Senator Parente and other senators, and I do so for two reasons. The first is the fact that this motion brings to Parliament's attention a problem that is too little talked about, and above all too little is done and does so with a series of specific commitments that embrace a comprehensive strategy, ranging from investment to social shock absorbers, from the education and training system to the third sector. The second reason is that it does so within a European dimension, a vision of Europe not as an unconditioned ATM, where we go to get some money, but as a political space in which we decide together how to achieve a greener, digital, sustainable, inclusive economy, an economy that is a multiplier of opportunities and equity for future generations. Youth employment has been at the heart of European recommendations to Italy for years. These are the conditions of Europe that we must neither fear nor ignore, but embrace. Starting from the problem: half of the work destroyed during the crisis by Covid-19 involved people under the age of thirty-five, although this age group is only a quarter of the employed. This is a huge gap. In two months we have lost 400,000 jobs, despite the fact that most of the employees were in the Social Security Fund and there were constraints on collective redundancies. For now the most affected groups are those of self-employment, temporary jobs, which do not see their contract renewed and of young people entering the labour market. There are entire Covid cohorts who see themselves deprived of those first opportunities and that training trampoline within the labour market. However, the problems of youth employment in this country do not arise with the crisis from Covid-19. We already had the European record of young people not studying and not working and, in the decade 2008 to 2018, the share of stable work had fallen by 10% in the age group under the age of thirty-four, while growing in all other age groups. In the face of these problems, our social spending commits only 4% to policies that reach people or families under the age of forty. This iniquity between generations also concerns the actions that we still have to take on the field today. Even today, politics is struggling to prioritise, especially when it comes to finding money, employment and the hopes of the younger generations. Let's face it, young people are always at the center of our conferences, but rarely at the center of our budget laws or our spending decrees after some deviation. Indeed, we are rightly concerned about the fears of those who have a job and are afraid of losing it, but just as rightly we should be concerned about the dreams of those who do not have a job and are looking for it, investing their skills and their efforts in that research. Often in our public discussion we have a stereotyped and discriminating vision of young people and people looking for work; dolls, the first, lazy or poorly qualified, the second. This vision is an alibi not to see their fatigue, their commitment, their hopes and their skills, their desire to find in work an instrument of emancipation, not to receive assistance end in itself, their demand for confidence on the ability to pursue their dreams and to realize their own life projects. These categories - young people, women, job seekers - are not the fragile categories of the labour market, they are the oil fields on which we find ourselves because the recovery of employment and our economy will only happen if we reactivate the hopes and abilities of young women and the unemployed. The second reason is the European dimension in which the motion rightly fits, recalling the strategy, summarized by the Commission only a month ago, of supporting youth employment as a bridge to work for the next generation. However, there are not only European recommendations. If we look at the Social Fund plus, the EU React Fund, the Recovery and Resilience Fund, Europe invests nearly 700 billion on the youth employment target and the relaunch of growth to increase the employment opportunities of younger generations. So our ability to spend to boost growth and new resources will also rightly be measured on the ability to spend existing resources and that we often spend little or no money. We spend little or no money because our system of active policy and training still serves a confusion of institutional roles between the State and the Regions and a system of governance and investment that fails to free up solutions. Precisely because the problem must be at the heart of the government agenda and of Parliament's action and it must be within this European dimension, I think the commitments that the motion gives to government activity are important. I'm just quoting three. The first is an investment plan for an ecological and technological transition, but it does not merely indicate these axes of development, but sets as a precise condition the priority of employment and training for our young people. We will have to put youth employment at the centre when we talk about growth and development strategies and not just when we talk about an area of sectoral policies. I would add that we must also do so when we think of defensive instruments, when we give liquidity to companies not to close down, we always think of the conditions to be imposed to keep people employed, but even when there is a redevelopment effort to increase productivity, we never think of imposing a condition on those who give liquidity to hire young people with apprenticeship contracts and indefinitely. The second important commitment of the motion is on investment in the dual system, vocational education and ITS, in order to relaunch our education and training system. The third commitment is on an organic reform of social shock absorbers. I would urge Parliament and the Government to go beyond the precise commitment contained in the motion and to identify instruments of expansionary solidarity and generational relay. We need an organic reform of social shock absorbers, which puts the unemployed, job seekers and young people entering the labour market at the centre. Citizenship income is a useful tool for combating poverty, it is not an active policy that can solve the problem of the unemployed. If you lose a job, you don't have to wait to lose your home to receive a certain guarantee of income from the state, but you have to receive a training salary, which gives you the guarantee of a strong income while accepting, with an individual pact, to reform yourself, to get back into play and to invest in your skills. We need to reform Naspi by removing decalage and reducing income, to give a strong guarantee to the unemployed, and we need to make it more generous for young people. It is pointless that in our conferences we keep telling young people to get involved and to move from different experiences (because there is no longer a fixed job), when then to get a full unemployment benefit you have to have four years of continuous contribution; we have to give reduced requirements to young people entering the labour market. We need a training salary for the unemployed and those who will lose a job in our labour market and not just those who already have a job. On this the action of Parliament and the Government should be strong, because these are the intensive therapies of welfare and labour policies on which we must invest so that we do not find ourselves unprepared by the employment crisis, which risks becoming a social crisis in the autumn. Training salaries, active labour policies and training policies: if we don't do it today, tomorrow might be too late. On this there is a need for vision and courage on the part of politics. The committees without political mandate will not solve the problem, because we do not need committees to know what are unfortunately holes in our welfare system and what are the proposals to cover those holes; What is needed is courage and vision, to make a reform that secures welfare in the face of the crises and challenges before us. The commitments of this motion are not enough for this reform, but I hope that they will be at least a sign in the right direction, so that we all pay attention to the fact that these choices and decisions must be made today; in autumn or after December it may be too late. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u119	FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Member of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on one thing I think we can all agree with this House: the problem of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, is something that is not only an obstacle to the country's growth at the moment, but above all makes us see a future full of concerns for the Italian system. Too important is the figure of young people to be able to neglect it and not put it at the center of our attention; in doing so we would really run a risk of default in the short term, that is, in the transition period when the old levers will leave the world of work and employment (on which also the growth of our Italy system depends) to young people. That is the great concern. To this concern we add that which we are witnessing or have witnessed in this parliamentary term and perhaps also at the end of the previous parliamentary term, namely the problem related to the work measures adopted in the last period: reform of employment centres, reform of the ANPAL, income of citizenship and decree of dignity. Only in view of the occupational damage that these decrees have caused, to a different but constant extent, can one understand how much this Government is not committing the energies necessary to bring the employment back to the center of its attention. I would like to take up what I have just heard from the rapporteurs on citizenship income, which cannot be prodromic to employment. Citizenship income is what it is and we at Forza Italia are also partly convinced that it is an excellent solution for the emergency care, but it is not prodromic to employment. Citizenship income must, according to the Government's will, be closely linked to the reform of active labour policies. Citizenship income and active labour policies certainly do not implement the necessary training of young people. Forza Italia believes that training begins before entering the world of work and ends at the exit from the world of work. Training must be continuous, because the dynamics of work also change from one moment to the next, as well as the needs of the world of work. Those of twenty years ago are not those of today and those of the next twenty years will even be unimaginable for the changes that will occur. Citizenship income, combined with active labour policies, is not the solution to finding employment opportunities. But there is more: the decree of dignity. With the excuse of restoring dignity to the worker in the search for the fixed place, especially at this time, in the age of coronavirus or even after, we are losing opportunities for training, but also opportunities for work and this means that the good is enemy of the best; it strikes the good, which is the job waiting for the best that will not arrive and will certainly not arrive soon. [[Applause]] Get out of the way that you with decree-laws can create jobs. You can create them when you include the navigator in active labour policies; those can be created, as they are not unnecessary expenditure. Similarly, when you envisage in the next reform plan 11,600 additional employees of the ANPAL headquarters to try to make them useful, perhaps the Government has no (but I'm sure that's not the case) countlessness of the war bulletins coming from the ANPAL and the Chambers of Commerce, which together prepare a particularly interesting monthly dedicated to the world of work. I am referring to that English term which I so little like about mismatching, in which it shows how inactive the labour policies you are putting in place or at least how insufficient they are: if it is true that 220,000 workers are now required by the world of work and 620,000 (I do not of course quote the units) will be needed by the end of September. (17.30) (Floris followed). These demands of the world of work will probably find an outlet in a minimal percentage if it is true - as is true - that exactly 77 percent of the figures required by the enterprise are missing. That is the grave concern: that your policy is going one way and that the world of work is going another way. That there is a mismatching not already between demands and job offers but between politics and work. [[Applause]] And that is the thing that worries us and those who, as happens to people of my age, care more about their children - perhaps even more about their grandchildren - than about themselves: there is no real policy for work. I know that, for example, as far as fixed-term work is concerned, you do not like the solution you have found regarding job vacancies by active labour policies with regard to citizenship income. Of a total of 900,000 people enjoying citizenship income, only 40,000 (about 5 percent) have found employment. Mr Undersecretary, go and see, please, the type of work of the people who have found employment (there are few, but there can be a lot of jobs per cent compared to the 40,000 jobs, not half, but over 70%): they have found a fixed-term job. What's gonna happen? When the contract expires, will you stop them from renewing it? I don't believe it, because that would be crazy! Another absurdity is that a percentage of people (I think they are 6,000 out of 40,000 people) who have found work found it under the diction of other contractual forms. You wage war indiscriminately on vouchers, which in agriculture and tourism are valid instruments (perhaps the only ones), but then recruitment takes place with other contractual forms. Forza Italia wants to participate in this great challenge for the future that is youth employment. We are sure that we need instruments which cannot produce immediate results, but we need a different attitude towards this form of unemployment, which is the real drama for the future of Italy. We are very cooperative. Mr President, I would like to announce that Force will vote in favour of all the motions that have been tabled, certain that each of them has peculiarities, but they are all tending to improve the working status of young people in our nation. We also accept, as I said before, the rewording of our motion, calling for a split vote, because we are convinced of the goodness of points 9) and 10) of the device, aimed at encouraging fixed-term contracts and the inclusion of vouchers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u122	NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to focus on the situation of young people in Italy. Italy is in the last place in Europe for youth workers, but it is also in the first place with regard to discouraged children, who do not work and who no longer study. Better than us are Bulgaria and Romania. Since the start of the coronavirus emergency, already one in six guys has stopped working. That is why, as the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, we did not accept the rewording of the motion. [[Applause.]] In fact, with the rewordings and the elimination of five foreheads of the premises, the sense of our motion, the idea that we have of the future and the idea that we have of youth policies were somewhat empty. The League, with its motion, did not bind the Government in strict points, but simply asked the Government to implement, with regard to the active policies of our children's work, a structured and operational plan of serious policies. I realise that Minister Spadafora has a great responsibility, because his delegation is very important. We all talk about the future of children and young people, but in order to give these young people a future we must think about the present, we must start building the future starting today, and not continue to postpone the decisions to be made. We need to reduce the unemployment figures that see us last. It is necessary to reduce school dispersal with important projects and with a certain foresight. We need to clear the brain drain abroad. I also appreciated the initiative "What future" that the Minister Spadafora has carried out on youth policies, what he calls a digital marathon on which all the policies that the Minister will carry forward with his delegation to youth policies will be based. It was an eight-hour conference where the kids met on four macrothemes: planet, participation, routes and meeting. From this conference came a document made precisely by these young people who speak clearly: he says that these young people want to work and to put themselves at stake, they want to study and enter the world of work. Young people - I say this to the Government and colleagues of the majority and the opposition - are a wealth to be preserved and protected, but above all to be valued. I therefore ask the Government and Minister Spadafora what idea of the future they have for our children. Yesterday the National Reform Plan (NRP) for 2020 was also passed in the 11th Commission. From what I understand, from how all the motions have been reworded and from what has been eliminated from the motions, the government's policies with regard to our children - as the PNR says - are the assistance and legalization of cannabis. [[Applause.]] In fact, in addition to an eight-hour convention, this government is carrying out welfare. I am particularly concerned that colleagues from the 5 Stars are silent about this situation, because when colleagues, now in the majority, were in opposition so much they fought against the income of citizenship and so much criticism came to the employment centers. Yet now, even with the rewording of our motion, he was asking to strengthen the initiatives that this Government is taking. But this government wants to increase the income of citizenship and wants to carry out an extraordinary plan for employment centers with still hiring navigators, when the Court of Auditors has declared that the income of citizenship and all that follows is a flop. [[Applause.]] We say so, but this observation does not come only from the League, which is now in opposition; the Court of Auditors says it and important criticisms have also come from the ANPAL. We have another idea of the future for our boys and, as Senator Salvini said this morning, in every useful measure the Movimento 5 Stars carries on the idea of wanting to legalize cannabis, which is a drug. You're dealing the idea to our guys that cannabis doesn't hurt, but it's good. With citizenship income you're dealing with the idea that kids are better off on a couch at home than going to work! ( [[Applause).]] The active labour policies, which you have so much fanned, have not yet left because the centres for employment in the municipalities have not yet left and are still looking for real estate. ( [[Comments).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u123	Colleagues, in an explanation of vote one per Group is spoken, and those who speak, unless they say inappropriate things, have the right to do so. Please, then, all listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u124	NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). There's all this excitement about drugs. The MoVimento 5 Stars also filed in September 2019 a bill on the legalization of cannabis. The drug kills and there is the example of those underage kids from Terni, who are dead! ( [[Applause]] ). There are many examples and, since you are so wise and all-seeing, I humbly invite you to read a book of simple reading and that flows well. It is a book written by a man who saved himself and began at the age of fourteen with a reed. Many boys died from a joint and that book is the testimony because it is written by the one who saved himself. The Movimento 5 Stars for our kids wants welfare and light free drugs. We have another idea of the future for our children, and we do not come to it today with the motion. We have said so in all the measures and we have tabled amendments. We need adequate resources from school. It takes so many initiatives, which are not these, and real active labour policies. We need a structured and organic plan for serious policies. That is why we did not put in strong points for the government because we wanted to carry out our ideas on this structured and organic level. The words of Senator Parente, Senator Laforgia and Senator Nannicini are beautiful when, referring to sharing and youth policies, they say that they must be a single objective of all political forces. Well, we are ready to bring our ideas and we have already done so in the various measures already passed through amendments on contributions to rental fees for out-of-home students, proposing a digital teaching dowry for families in difficulty, exemption for families in difficulty from the payment of tuition fees and the reduction of tuition fees. We have tabled so many amendments to ensure that young people can take up work and, above all, support innovative startups. These amendments have all been rejected; well, we put them back on the table. Let's discuss this together, even though I feel like I'm inside the Brenner tunnel for now without an exit. ( [[Applause]] ). In fact, the National Reform Plan 2020 also speaks for itself: we read about welfare and employment centres, which have not worked and will never work because the numbers are obvious. However, I take the words of Senator Parente, that we must be united in this objective. We will vote with a sense of responsibility in favour of all the motions tabled for youth policies, because it is a responsibility that we take. We care about young people, we have always fought, they are part of our being, they are part of our battles, of our foresight. Let us stop saying, however, that young people are the future: young people are the present! [[Applause]] We must work in the present to give them a way of having a future; there are no big openings, but we will go on fighting for our children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u127	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, today this House is facing a crucial issue for the future of Italy: the prospects for the integration of the new generations into the labour market, at an extraordinary time for our country, which has been bent on an economic and social level by a global crisis induced by the pandemic. The challenge ahead is of epochal scope; at stake is the future, not only of a generation called to experience and live a watershed phase of the history of Italy, Europe and the whole planet, but above all the future of a nation that for decades, net of declarations of principle, was not able to look beyond itself and that today pays the heat of not having been able to invest in generational change and young people. Labour-related policies have not been able to offer thousands of young workers the opportunity to build a future, condemning them - as if it were a constant one - to the condition of permanent precariousness. Yet, it is on the new generations and on their stability in employment that the entire system of social protection of this country is based above all, put to the test today by the discontinuity of atypical contracts that have prevented entire generations from imagining and drawing their tomorrow, after years of sacrifice and hard work. Entire generations have been denied the future, the same future that, on the contrary, their fathers and mothers - and even before their grandparents - had the right and the possibility to design and build. The pre-covid era has given us a country where the youth group for too many years has been ignored, denigrated and exploited. [[Applause.]] As in a paradox, we live in a country where our young people, although more educated than their fathers and grandparents, are actually poorer. Italy is the country with the highest youth unemployment rate at Community level, with equally high numbers of so-called NEETs (those not engaged in study, work or training) or underpaid girls and boys at first employment. Without considering the phenomenon that, for years, someone has defined brains in flight: our most promising minds, the most educated young people that Italy not only did not know how to value and recognize but who mortified by offering them only one way, that of migration for economic reasons from a country able to offer them a precarious future, denying in fact that constitutionally guaranteed right to a remuneration proportionate and sufficient to the quality and quantity of the work carried out. [[Applause.]] If we look at the numbers, it is the Istat that reveals us that Italy is a country from which 117,000 Italians have left, of which 30,000 graduates, for a total of migrants - in the years between 2013 and 2018 - of about 200,000. Italy must return to being a country for young people. Today it is time to question, reason and reflect on what is the model of society we want. Work and young people: two words with a very important meaning, and that must have a very important meaning for politics, not just at this time. These two words must be the keywords for drawing up the guidelines for our political action. The word "work" is present recurrently in our Constitution: in Articles 1, 4, 35, 37 and so on. But if we think of young people, what is the word that often matches them? "Lavoretto" is as if they could aspire only to that. Instead, to the word "young people" we should match the terms "training", "investment", "incentive", "value-added." [[Applause]] These are words that must correspond to concrete actions, which are carried out in development policies that promote not only the entry of young people into the labour market through incentives for recruitment but that allow them to stay there and, above all, to stay in our country. The path of integration of young people into the world of work must then be thought of as a path that does not begin at the end of studies, but begins in parallel with the path of study. It is through a true dual system that brings together school and work, state and company, public and private, that these worlds interact and talk and build together the future of all those young people, who see their future within complex organizations or simpler organizations or who discover the desire to invest in agriculture and crafts. Therefore, a school path that can enhance the skills to transform them into skills and accompany our young people in the most suitable working environment. This involves, of course, observing the evolution of the labour market. Welcome, then, to the observatory that is restored with the decree I raise. The investment in training, however, must continue also in constancy of employment relationship. Here comes the concept of long life learning, the constant training that allows workers to get rich and update themselves even during their career. But how does that happen? To this question we answer that it is done through the establishment of internal campuses, of formal mentoring projects, that give the possibility to the new generations to interact in the world of work with the wisest generation, that has much to transfer to the young through these paths and that for this reason must not feel set aside. This change of skills is essential for our companies to continue to exist and continue to maintain in some sectors that know-how typical of Made in Italy, which no one can copy us. [[Applause]] Training, accompanied by digitalization and innovation, is the real keyword, which must accompany us in the path of exit from the tunnel in which Covid introduced us. We must ensure that the word "young people" is no longer associated with the word "precari". Much has been done with the Dignity Decree, which led to a boom in permanent contracts, bringing down the unemployment rate that has not reversed its trend for years. We have finally provided protection for a category of young people such as raiders: because it is true that work is transformed and needs to be adapted, but for this reason we must not give up protection, rights and safety at work. The intention of Mr Catalfo to set up a table with the social partners for the creation of a CCNL for this category should also be welcomed. Let us ensure that the concept of a young worker no longer matches the concept of unequal pay and that wages start from a minimum wage which fully implements Article 36 of our Constitution. [[Applause]] Above all, let us ensure that the passing of witness between one generation and another takes place with structural systems, such as the generational relay, which can allow a person close to retirement, in the previous three years, to accompany a young person hired, receiving in return a reduction in working hours but full contributions. Let us ensure that the words we speak in these classrooms or those we write in our motions do not remain a dead letter. We work together to make them effective legislative instruments. Only by setting aside party interests and working to achieve the goals we set ourselves can we gain credibility in the eyes of young people. Not words, but examples. This is the greatest gift that politics can give to the new generations. [[Applause]] Having said that, we share many of the points listed in motion 254 (text 3), at the first signature of the Senator Parent, and for this I declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u129	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u130	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, we were talking about young people in the explanations of vote just now. You always try to blame young people for anything, just like the nightlife. In this case, today we were talking about the use of cannabis, which, as far as colleagues of the League can say and everyone who thinks like them, is not a drug: it is simply a medical herb. Says who? That's what the statistics say. [[Comments.]] That's what the statistics say. How many dead and cannabis patients in the world every year, since when does this miraculous plant exist on this planet? Zero. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampollo... On the other hand, there are eight million deaths per year for cigarettes and three million deaths for alcohol. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Ciampollo, I want to call you back to the agenda for the motions we're dealing with. CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). That's what the senator used to talk about, and she blamed the young people. Firstly, it is not true that from cannabis you switch to heavy drugs, because it is not really a drug; it is a alfalfa. On the other hand, we have been selling it at the pharmacy since 2007. [[Comments.]] While tobacco, which kills eight million people, is sold with a health card. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u131	Senator, this has nothing to do with it. I'll call you back, and then I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u132	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). The subject? The Senator of the League mentioned it. I was saying that the absurd thing is that in Italy tobacco (on which it is written "Smoke kills") is bought with a health card.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u133	Senator Ciampollo, I'll take your word for it. I called her back and she went on. [[Applause]] Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 254 (text 3), tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 260 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 268, tabled by Senator Nisini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On motion No 273 (text 2) a split vote was requested. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 273 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, with the exception of paragraphs 9 and 10) of the operative part. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraphs 9 and 10) of motion 273 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u134	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00258, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators, 1-00263, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators, 1-00264, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators, 1-00266, presented by Senator Borgonzoni and other senators, and 1-00269, presented by Senator Bernini and other senators, on the protection of national artistic heritage. I call Senator Rauti to explain motion 258.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u135	Mr. President, Italy... [[Brusio.]] Can we have some silence, Mr President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, those who want to get away do so by allowing us to continue our work. Italy is a real cultural deposit, an extraordinary concentration of cultural assets and sites recognized by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site: historical, cultural, artistic and museum treasures, but also architectural, as well as archaeological areas and an immense archive and library heritage. All this makes us famous in the world and with different cultural languages contributes to the story of our millenary civilization. Culture, art, history, monuments, but also the landscapes contribute to this vast and unique Italian richness in the world, to which are accompanied by local cultures, those of the so-called small patricians, and more generally the intangible culture, characterized by traditions, local languages, folklore, the rituality of festivities, typical shows and also food and wine culture, equally famous internationally. In short, in the global imagination I think I can say that we are the Nation of traditional and ancient knowledge and flavors, yet still alive and vital in every Italian village, even the smallest, rich and strongly identity. The motion of Brothers of Italy is also born from these premises and from the awareness that we have the cultural, political responsibility - and I would also say ethical and moral - not only to safeguard the entire heritage but also to protect it in order to pass it on to future generations. We also have a duty to convey its meaning, which I would call metahistoric, and the symbolic sense (which, as the etymology of this adjective also suggests, means to put together, unite, harmonize idea and representation, meaningful and meaning, and more simply bring in and contain). This is the sense of memory and history that symbols transmit. It is therefore necessary, as we said, to protect, but also to valorize: these are the two key concepts around which part of our motion revolves. Protection is not only a moral duty, but also a constitutional call: I refer to Article 9, which sets the task of the Republic to promote the development of culture and scientific and technical research and to protect the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the nation. I would add that the State has exclusive legislation in the field of the protection of the environment, the ecosystem and cultural heritage in accordance with Article 117 of the Constitution, while the enhancement of cultural and environmental heritage and the promotion and organisation of cultural activities are the subject of concurrent legislation. Overall, the protection of national cultural and artistic heritage calls into question both administrative regulatory activities and operational conservation and defence measures aimed at ensuring the protection and protection of goods and their public use. There is also the criminal protection of cultural goods governed by the rules contained in both the code of cultural goods and the landscape, and of course in the penal code. The crimes of protection of the national cultural heritage are defined both of a criminal and a criminal nature and aim to prevent the depletion of the heritage and to punish damages, defacements, slanders, etc., of goods of historical and artistic interest. Overall - this is a point of the motion - a non-organic and uneven discipline emerges. There is no body of rules aimed exclusively at protecting the cultural heritage according to a vision that is adapted to the peculiarity and extraordinaryness of the heritage itself. In short, all the rules in force, the system of protection of cultural heritage is insufficient and the instruments available appear almost inadequate in relation to the extent of acts of vandalism, voluntary destruction, theft and damage. We therefore need to try to change the criminal sanctioning framework with respect to those who disfigure, vandalize and destroy goods recognized universally of historical, artistic and cultural value. After the concept of protection, I would like to turn to the aspect of valorization, on which our motion insists, which underlines that the valorization of cultural goods presupposes first of all their protection, which lies in their recognition, their conservation and protection and their restoration. The same definition of cultural heritage as contained in the aforementioned code of cultural heritage and landscape is complex and concerns artistic, historical, archaeological and ethno-anthropological, archival and bibliographical, but also landscapes, natural, morphological; I could continue but in good substance we mean everything that is evidence of civilization and beauty. The concept and the action of valorization I would say that it is in permanent war with every form of abandonment, neglect, degradation of the heritage, and of course with every act of damage, destruction, theft and vandalism. However, I would like to stress that valorization also requires the commitment of adequate resources and paradoxically Italy, an extraordinary concentration of cultural heritage, is among the European countries that allocates less funds to culture, neglecting this immense resource that could turn into wealth, opportunity, strategic resource, flywheel of tourism for the revival in our country. Precisely the post-pandemic situation, the economic crisis that we are going through with the crisis in the tourism sector, shows us once again and again how much tourism is flying and the backbone of the economy, an inexhaustible source of international attraction. Today operators are well aware of the costs involved in the fact that international tourism is not present in this summer season; the tourism that could represent, because it has always done so and must return to it, a virtuous circle for the work induced and the production of wealth. In this illustration I do not dwell on the criticalities and the complaints surrounding the issue of cultural goods, which are however punctually highlighted in our motion and which concern not only the conditions of carelessness and abandonment, in short those that are properly defined the wounds to beauty, but also the eternal and unresolved question of the incomplete census of the works of art of national heritage, as well as that of the resources dedicated to the personnel employed in the sector. Our motion is intended to place more emphasis on the fact that cultural heritage represents the history, memory and identity of a nation and, in turn, is the material and ideal prerequisite for transmitting the awareness of one's own roots and the complex traditions of a people. Our motion, which we hope will be shared (it comforts us that there are four others going in the same direction of common defence of the heritage) asks the Government essentially three fundamental commitments: the preparation of an extraordinary plan of interventions aimed at the safety, protection, conservation and enhancement of the heritage; the adoption of initiatives also of a regulatory nature aimed at ensuring an adequate defence of the cultural heritage, also with an organic reform of the sanctioning discipline; finally, the preparation and adoption of advanced technological tools for an adequate monitoring and safeguard of the Italian cultural heritage. In the explanation of vote I will then reserve the right to add a few elements, hoping for a joint action by the House leading to a joint vote on all the motions tabled on this subject. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u136	I call Senator Montevecchi to explain motion 263.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u137	Mr President, first of all, it is right to recall that Article 9 of our Constitution calls on the State to guarantee the protection of our artistic and landscape heritage and reads: The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. In this way, the Constitution reminds us of the mission of the State, namely to ensure adequate custody and therefore adequate use by citizens of the rich artistic and, more generally, cultural heritage. Culture, therefore, as a common good of the community and essential, because knowledge of our heritage and its use is surely linked to the right to well-being and knowledge more generally. A rich cultural fabric, a material and immaterial heritage is built on our entire territory. In the material heritage, as Senator Rauti rightly recalled, it is good to remember that archives and libraries also belong, which play a very important role in the preservation, dissemination and transmission of our historical memory and therefore also in the knowledge of our history, which is fundamental to then understand the facts of the present. In the immaterial heritage we remember all the local languages, knowledge, oral culture, but also opera, symphonic music, ballet, poetry, literature, cinema. It is, therefore, a rich fabric that fits all over the national territory. It is therefore necessary to get out of the logic, as we have said so many times in this House, of the great poles of mass tourism and start to think about the cultural districts spread, because only by doing so, only by supporting and implementing our heritage spread throughout the territory, can we think of having its social function fully carried out by our culture. It takes a constant commitment to the preservation and preservation of this heritage and we also have an obligation to promote its knowledge, awareness and sensitivity among the new generations, because only in this way can we ensure that it is transmitted, preserved and valued. We therefore need a full assumption of responsibility on the part of all those involved, both public and private, but first of all we must remember, precisely in accordance with Article 9 of our Constitution, that it is the State that must be responsible for supporting the protection, custody and enhancement of our heritage. Also, I would add, in view of the fact that we are increasingly subjected to the repercussions of climate change and our artistic heritage is increasingly exposed to these adverse phenomena and therefore we must also reason in this regard. The health crisis, which has also been a social and economic crisis, has hit the cultural sector hard and has brought out dramatically some critical issues that still afflict this sector and, in particular, its workers, thus imposing a reflection on the welfare of these workers. I am therefore very pleased that this interministerial table between the Mibact and the Ministry of Labour has been launched precisely to dedicate itself to the revision and construction of a legislation dedicated to the workers of live entertainment and cinema in particular, taking into account the typical characteristics of these workers. In addition to this sector, for which - I repeat - we are pleased to have started this interministerial table, we must also think of the workers of all the other sectors that make up the vast sector of culture in Italy. If, as has been said a few years ago, culture is an essential service, I would just like to start from the first of the commitments of the motion, namely to establish the essential levels of benefits, which must be established in full harmony with the right to access, therefore to the enjoyment of our heritage, but also in full harmony with the protection of workers. When I am talking about worker protection, I am clearly talking not only about fair pay, but also about proper recognition and professional training and, to return to welfare, about a social security and welfare system that takes into account the particular nature of these workers. As far as the right of access is concerned, we must consider completing the plan of use, thinking of all those who are temporarily or permanently disabled and who have special needs, because only by broadening and completing this plan for use, will we achieve the goal of having a greater knowledge of our heritage and fulfilling our constitutional duty. We also have the obligation to foresee an ordinary and extraordinary maintenance plan because this is directly related to the use, but also to conservation, protection, enhancement and therefore to the promotion of our heritage and of the whole tourist circuit that is connected to it, where we will certainly have to reason in terms of sustainable tourism, reminding us of the need for cultural districts spread, also in the perspective of lightening the great poles of attraction and giving new lifeblood and relaunch to Italian territories that are very rich, that it is worth visiting and promoting, making them known all over the world. To do this we will have to find a harmony between professionalism and volunteering and re-launch employment through these routine and extraordinary maintenance plans and enhance the professions that are related to protection and conservation. We must not forget even research, because it is a fundamental point in the world of protection, conservation, but also the use of our heritage and often, when we talk about artistic and cultural heritage to be protected and valued, we forget the great importance that research has in this field. We will also have to commit ourselves to a project, which the Government has undertaken to carry out by approving an amendment in the budget law 2020, on the mapping of our abandoned state assets, of historical and cultural interest, precisely in the perspective of an employment revival, of a recovery of the places, therefore of a contrast to the consumption of soil and therefore to the creation of new poles of aggregation and social development and not only economic of the territory. There is a need for virtuous projects to recover historic centers, where I think this emergency has made it clear that there is a need to rethink the reconstruction of a residential social fabric within our historical centers, which otherwise risk becoming dying theme parks; therefore reconstruction of sociality and residentiality. To do all this it is important that there is a conscious citizenship, that knows the value and existence of its artistic and landscape heritage; it must therefore start from the school. I shall conclude with a reference to intangible assets. Speaking of immaterial heritage and its vastness, I spoke of opera and symphonic music. We must absolutely take this opportunity - it is a commitment that we ask the Government - to resolve the critical issues that have plagued this sector for too long and that are emerging dramatically not only in this emergency health, social and economic, but also for news events that we are reading on the newspapers in this last period. We must all rethink together how to select the governance of these foundations, the nature they must have, how to make them work in greater transparency, how to protect workers. 18.22 (Montevecchi). I shall conclude, Mr President, with a thought of dance and ballet. Italy is the cradle of dance and ballet and we cannot forget these workers. To do all this, therefore, we will have to use some of the aid that will come to us from Europe for this sector because, as the President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte, has pointed out several times, Italy can start again if it starts again from its enormous beauty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u138	I call Senator Verducci to explain motion 264.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u139	Mr President, we think there is a way, more than others, to keep a country together, to counter divisions and inequalities, to revive the full awareness of our potential, a vision and an idea of the future, especially at a time of loss and social crisis such as what we are experiencing. This instrument is the cultural factor and this is the political significance of our motion. Giving vitality to our cultural heritage strengthens a collective feeling, the sense of belonging to a growing history, the sense of belonging to a community of destiny, which for us is not only national, but is fully European and international. Putting culture at the center of a new model of development means being on the side of rights, open society, critical thinking; it means investing - and this is what we want to do - on the cultural heritage, on the landscape, on cultural tourism as an economic asset and strategic development of our country, as a lever of inclusion and civil and social integration. Culture is a powerful economic multiplier, capable of creating work and entrepreneurship, creating gross domestic product, creating wealth and redistributing it, but it is at the same time an extraordinary social multiplier, capable of creating shared values, coexistence, mutual respect, bonds of community, inclusion and therefore more security, plurality of ideas and therefore more freedom. Mr President, the development of culture and research, the protection of historical and artistic heritage and the protection of the landscape are among the fundamental principles of our Republican Constitution: these terms are indissolubly held together, in Article 9, by the will of our constituent fathers; they are in the citizenship pact that is the basis of our rebirth after the moral and material ruins of fascism and war. Having held together, in the same conception of heritage, cultural heritage and landscape anticipates with exceptional modernity what, after many decades, has been codified by the Lighthouse Convention of the Council of Europe, the one that we approved a few months ago and that revolutionises the idea of cultural heritage, widening it to include the port of all the historical-anthropological experience of our communities, the result of the incessant interaction over time between peoples and places. Moreover, the policy that is the crowning of ethics - said Aristotle - is precisely the art of building the city and for this reason the function of politics is to make citizenship, to make society, to affirm the idea of the common good; it is to affirm the public interest, the public utility; to affirm the primacy of the public over the private interest. And that is why, since the age of the Municipalities, Humanism and then the Renaissance, the idea of preserving and beautifying our historical villages, our landscape, even the agricultural one, is one with the promotion of our culture, with the definition of our national character and our identity. That is why we know that building speculation or the closure of a theatre scar our identity. We know more than ever today, in this time that we live, that this is a point of truth. It is not an urgency that is born today, because it is from 2014 that the Mibact has put in place multiple financing plans, aimed at securing, protecting and enhancing the cultural heritage, allocating substantial and increasing funds. We know that the reform of the superintendences, the strengthening and modernization of the museum system has given new sap, has brought to our museums many more people than ever happened, has restored legitimacy to a cultural heritage that makes sense only if it is enjoyed and lived without fences, strengthening a sense of popular and collective belonging, renewing also the relationship between the works of art, the territory and their original context, which for no reason must be broken, because it represents the historical memory and the social function of the cultural heritage. President, at the heart of this motion there is not a static vision of cultural heritage, but a dynamic idea for which cultural districts are born from it that lead to the valorization of territories, in particular the internal areas of our hinterland. The idea is that the government recovers the building heritage for artistic, cultural purposes, and among them the residences of the artists; that it revitalizes the neighborhoods of our cities, the urban and environmental quality; that it binds European resources to the support, recovery and use of our widespread cultural heritage. Above all, colleagues, there is work at the heart of this motion, there are workers and workers in cultural goods, because there is a shortage of unsustainable staff of over 5,000 units, which undermines the enormous potential of our cultural system. [[Applause]] That is why we strongly ask our Government for a recruitment plan immediately, from here to 2022. That is why we are calling for extraordinary recruitment measures. That is why we are calling for further implementation of the financing plans and for new ones to be implemented. The protection and enhancement of cultural heritage needs a new generation of scholars and researchers, a new generation of cultural heritage professionals. Our country needs it more than ever, to regain confidence and awareness. That, Mr President, is the meaning of motion 264 that we have tabled today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u140	I call Senator Borgonzoni to explain motion 266.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u141	Mr President, I could begin by repeating what previous speakers have said about the importance and centrality of culture in our country and the fact that, in addition to the words that are often widely spoken in this House, culture needs resources. As for the centrality that culture has in the social fabric, I share the concept, because culture serves to aggregate and also to try to mitigate those social tensions that perhaps, in situations like those we are living now, risk being amplified. Not by chance, I'm always terrified when we talk about the Netflix of culture, because I'm afraid that people who don't have the money to shoot, enter the museums and go to the theater, can sit on the couch and watch the theater from there. This made sense when we couldn't get out of the house, while now there is a risk of creating "A" citizens (the richest ones, who can pay 300 or 400 euros a ticket to go to the theatre) and "B" citizens, who are in front of a screen, when culture - I think we all share it - fills all our senses: when you enter a library, you smell books and touch them with your hands; when you go to see a concert, there is also the empathy and emotion to listen to it with other people. Here is the Undersecretary who has the delegations that I had before: when we talk about cinema, we always refer to the cinemas, because I am that place where you cry and laugh together with a neighbour, sitting next to you, that you do not know and at that moment you create an emotion with him. It is essential that the cinemas also survive and we must work hard, because they are great social garrisons on our territories. I will focus on the part of the motion, because I think we share everything else. I hope that the motions that we are debating today will become concrete acts of the Government and will not just remain exercises of style, which we often find ourselves doing in this House, which are fine, but do not lead to the results that we all hope for. I would like to comment on the first point, by thanking my colleague who first filed the motion concerning the artistic heritage, which I tried to trace, inserting in particular the things that, when I was Undersecretary, the Government did. We intend to commit the Government to increase the financial resources for an extraordinary plan of interventions, which is fundamental for the security, protection, conservation and enhancement of the cultural, artistic and museum heritage. I have seen that the implementing decree for funds for museums has been adopted and that the Government has transposed a measure contained in our motion that had been rejected: I am happy if, perhaps with a little longer time, the proposals are finally accepted. I am referring to civic museums. You can also vote in favour: it is not such a big offense, if we find points of union on culture, it could also be a good signal to those who listen to us and see us. Culture unites: here we say it, let's prove it sometimes in fact. If the current opposition makes proposals that can be shared on culture (often we find points that unite us), it is useless to reject them and then to adopt an implementing decree by inserting a bit of secret the measure. I hope that these funds will come and, above all, that the so-called simplification decree will address the issue of culture by simplifying access to the funds and the interventions that are being made. As I said also in the Commission, there is the whole issue of supervisors, who have played a role of protection in our country, compared to other countries where instead superintendences like ours did not exist and today there is no longer an artistic heritage because it has not been protected. However, we need to identify more objective criteria, because it is not possible that if you want to open a window on a wall, this is good for the current superintendent, but not for what comes next. Then there are the issues of timing and silence assent: it is obvious that to improve the times you need to increase the staff. We must find a way to protect the heritage, because we often find ourselves in the situation where the funds are there and intervention can be done, but the process is so long, that the heritage is damaged and worse than when we started with the practices. We must also draw up a national strategic plan on the enhancement of the UNESCO heritage, material and intangible, because Italy, as we know, is a great state for the UNESCO heritage and it is even more so for the recognitions we have had and I hope that we will have others. I hope that after Giotto and the frescoes of the fourteenth century in Padua, it is the turn of Bologna with its porticos; we have worked hard on it and for this I thank the offices of the Ministry. In this regard, it takes an environmentally sustainable management and development of all sites to try to promote even the so-called minor sites: it is an offense to define them less given the beauty of these sites, but I call them so only because they are less known by Italians and foreigners who come to Italy. Surely this can be done by involving the cultural industries and trying to develop them in our country. In the countries of northern Europe there are cultural industries that are super technological and very good at interventions; we, at this juncture, have developed less a dowry that we still have, because we have the ingenuity and creativity, but perhaps we have less invested in it. You have to invest much more, especially because UNESCO sites can be that tow to bring back a lot of foreign tourism in our country. Not by chance, one of the proposals I made was precisely to promote our country on televisions in other states through the UNESCO heritage material and intangible. Since we are talking about heritage protection, the Nicosia Convention must be ratified; we were already very close and ratified it when we were in the government. I think it's a ride we need to take quickly. I also want to thank the Carabinieri Command for the protection of the cultural heritage that works together with the Ministry, because there are few. In this regard, I appeal: let us try to increase the resources of this Command, because they do a great job in Italy and abroad: I also think of all the heritage that was saved and that had been stolen by terrorists. They must really be applauded, but we must also give them the tools, in addition to increasing the staff who work in that Command. I remember a bill, which arrived in the Senate and which has already been voted on in the Chamber with a series of amendments, aimed at trying to put in a unique system within the hive of the penal code all those offences - which are now in the code of cultural goods or other regulations - that punish the slander. The debate has returned to the news because of the recent slaps. I come from a city like Bologna, where we have the arcades that have to take the path to become a patrimony of humanity, but we are desperate because they are slammed all the time. We have seen what happens mainly in other states, not in us, but on the sculpture of the statues you must definitely give a clear message, because you can't paint a monument, you can't go and play in a fountain, you can't destroy a statue. In fact, I believe that the past is fundamental to it, many times not to repeat it. In the final point of our motion, there is one subject which I have devoted a great deal of time to and which I believe is important. It is about the new technologies and the centrality that our country can have in the satellite control of the territory. I opened the symposium at the Colosseum. We have satellite data on most of our territory since 2009; they are data that tell us about the movements and movements of both archaeological areas and our heritage. We must incorporate this data into a single system that can control and prevent falls, which can indicate what action needs to be taken. Having data from 2009 to today, we are also lucky to be able to understand what are the normal structural movements of a palace or archaeological area due to the filling and emptying of water and according to the seasons of the year, and what are the interventions that must be done immediately because there is the risk of collapse. The first experiment had been done in Pompeii and Herculaneum already in 2015-2016: by satellite observation they noticed that a cover was coming down that was on excavations. On this we must give resources to the Ministry, it must be trained and it must be hired new staff and on this we can be the first. When this symposium was done, I also went to Brazil, Rio de Janeiro, to talk about this: we can have a model to bring back to others because, when we did the symposium at the archaeological area of the Colosseum, they came from all over the world. We can also be first in a new vision of the protection of artistic heritage. We try to do that, and to do that we need to invest money. Since we have spoken today and it seems that we all agree on this, we begin to do so and give the government the courage to invest in what can be the revival of our territory and our roots, what, as a cultural enterprise, with its induced, creates 17% of GDP. I hope that all the motions we are debating today, including ours, will be voted on, but above all that they will become concrete. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u142	I call Senator Aimi to explain motion 269.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u143	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the motion that we are presenting on this evening, in which we have listened very carefully to the speeches of the other political forces, which find us, to a large extent, in harmony with the founding principles that animate them, allows me to highlight a very important aspect from which I would start by thanking Senator Andrea Cangini, who has made our motion for the Group, together with others. I would like to remind you that we are bearers of a cultural background and - let me say - extraordinary civilization. President, geography has placed us in a very special condition: we are between the North and the South of the world; we are in the middle of the Mediterranean; we are a garden in the middle of the Mediterranean and we are also an open-air museum. We have given birth to extraordinary characters of literature, art and figurative arts. We have been a people who have been genetically summoned to this, but not by chance. It is a culture, it is a religion that has become very often culture and a culture that has been practiced. This is the truth and the reason why we also have the task of transferring to the new generations the heritage that has been handed over to us at a particularly difficult time. We are witnessing, in fact, an iconoclastic fury that has struck the United States of America, but which unfortunately also affects and infects Italy. We have heard and seen, for example, the destruction in Bergamo - here is our colleague Gallone - of the monument to the fallen of the Folgore: an absolutely shameful act. Some say that we should even remove from our textbooks Dante Alighieri, in the passage where he says "while everything in him sees me attack, look at me and with his hands he opened his chest, saying: "Now see how I fall off!" See how crippled Muhammad is! Before me, Ali is crying, dumb-ass in the face from the chin to the tuft. And all the others that you see here, sower of scandal and schism out alive, and yet they are so fools. This passage of Dante, which was admirably represented in a painting by Giovanni da Modena in the cathedral of Bologna, represents a work at great risk. This is one of the problems we have. I would also like to recall an act of perhaps "cultural fessery," if not of submission: when the President of the Islamic Republic Rouhani came to Italy, he even came to cover the statues at the Capitol Museum because they represented a nudity. But we are a culture that has become extraordinary and we are heirs of the Greek-Roman culture; we cannot forget it. Then what should we do? If all this is a wonderful thing, we must also give answers. I thank the Government for accepting the amendments on our motion as well, and I therefore believe that it will eventually also have a majority vote. We have a task: to preserve from the iconoclastic fury - I repeat - that belongs only to certain "ideologies." I am thinking of what we have seen, for example, in Palmira, with the fierce and shameful destruction of that archaeological site that represents memories of an ancient Rome, of which someone perhaps would like to forget, but that we cannot inevitably forget. In order to preserve all this, I allowed myself, a few days ago, to present a bill, which has been taken up, which in particular revises Articles 635 and 639 of our penal code. Those are no longer suitable items at the moment, suitable for need. We do not have to predict the processability of only some of the crimes - which some call bagatellars, small, of little interest - but we need to indicate a processibility of office, so that the prosecutors of the Republic also deal with this type of crime. It is shameful to think and put the judicial policy of well-offering at the centre: we have much more to think about and therefore it is not reflected in the destruction that is taking place slowly. It is not enough, in fact, the earthquakes, not enough floods or the phenomena of the weariness of the time; we also, unfortunately, of the fools in actual permanent service, who spend their time at night painting the houses, the walls, the monuments, to destroy. This can no longer be possible. So: ex officio procedure, increased financial penalties and, above all, socially useful jobs for those who are caught committing this kind of crime. [[Applause]] How? By preparing them, letting them learn a trade: elbow oil to clean up what they have defaced; hand to the wallet to compensate for the damage caused. We must have the courage to go in that direction and to ensure that our children, our youth, also know that this heritage is the property of all, regardless of political membership. It is a heritage of all and as such must be defended and preserved. We want to go in this direction; above all, we want the courage of the Assembly, in this situation too, to put in hand a reform, which will be important, of the aforementioned articles 635 and 639, which would allow us to put so many young people in the conditions of learning a trade, that of cleaning up the monuments; to put a beautiful tricolor bib - or choose the color you want - with written "I love Italy," and put them there to work in the interest of our nation. [[Applause.]] That is what we must do. There are extraordinary economic interests that gravitate around the defence and preservation of monuments. It is us, who are the first country in the world as a possession of artistic heritage - according to someone, up to 75% - that we should be truly proud of. And to those who allow themselves to disagree, to be in tune with a certain "creativity" that destroys, we must say that the moment is over: we must tell them that we must truly love our homeland Italy; we must love this country and begin to do so by small things. Therefore, walls and monuments are no longer defaced, but they must be converted. Those who take these courses, so they learn a trade, should then be - in order to extinguish the crime - initiated, for a period of at least three months, to do this activity. On the other hand, if it is foreseen for other types of crime, I do not see why it should not be included in this measure, which basically takes up a typically Italian reason, that of the counterfeit. Well, let's send them to clean up the monuments because it is, in my opinion, the most important thing we could really do, also for the joy of the many tourists who very often come to Italy and see things they should not see. I believe that the motion best represents this love which, in my opinion, must animate each one of us. I still thank my Group, Forza Italia, but also the other political groups, because they have shown a particular sensitivity and an elevation of mind, which is extremely important at a time of decadence also cultural and political. Let's take back the space we deserve. Let us bring politics to that height that it itself deserves. Let us return to the direction of such situations. These are the reasons why I believe that this motion can be tabled and, above all, voted on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u144	There are no members to speak in debate. Given that some of the Government's opinions have been informally delivered to us, precisely because of the complexity of the topics discussed, I ask the presenters if they have already seen them, so that, even for the Undersecretary, it is easier to go back to the written copies of the reformulations. I call the representative of the Government, to whom I ask whether he confirms the content of the opinions already delivered in writing.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u145	Mr. President, I confirm.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u146	On motion 258, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators, the proposals for reformulation concern the premises and commitments. There is then an opposition to points 4, 11, 12) and 13) of the premises, which are asked to be expounded. With the proposed rewordings, the opinion is in favour. I ask Senator Rauti if she accepts all the rewordings of the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u147	Yes, Mr President, I welcome them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u148	Therefore, the opinion is in favour of motion 258. On motion 263, first signed by Senator Montevecchi, there is a proposal for the rewording of point 1). I ask Senator Montevecchi if he accepts this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u149	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u150	The opinion is fully in favour, however, of motions No 264, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators, and of motion No 266, tabled by Senator Borgonzoni and other senators. On motion 269, first signed by Senator Bernini, we have an objection to point 2 of the premises. In addition, a rewording of points 1 and 6 of the premises has been made. I ask Senator Aimi, who presented the motion, if he accepts what is proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u151	Mr President, we welcome what has been requested by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u152	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. As I recall that we are at the twenty-fifth motion voted on in two days, I call on my fellow Members to respect the times strictly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u155	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I will be very brief, not only because of what you said, but also because I no longer have a voice. We are pleased that the theme of the protection of the artistic heritage, after our motion, has seen the presentation of four other motions, all animated by the same desire to enhance and protect the national artistic heritage. The debate we have heard in this House was a good one, because there were many ideas, which I appreciated, including the motions of others. I was very impressed by the intervention of my colleague Aimi, with whom I share the concern for the recent attacks carried out on works symbolizing history and culture, episodes that the chronicle has returned to us; a sort of neo-iconoclastic fury, which is brought back by some analysts to the so-called category of cancel culture, that is the culture of cancellation, dictated by the desire to remove history and memory, attacking statues, symbolic monuments and the values they represent. We are concerned about the phenomenon of cancellation and removal of the past, which has in social media - as is well known - its megaphone and which, from our point of view, represents a dangerous anticultural drift. We too, Mr Aimi, have presented a bill, which, without entering the article, conceptually aims to tighten the penalties against those who carry out vandalism, defaces and destroys historical and artistic assets. It is also by virtue of the draft law that we have presented that I feel - as I have already stated - to accept what has been proposed by the Government in relation to our motion, that is to say to expunge two parts and reformulate some of them. I would also like to vote in favour of the other motions tabled, which I quote by number: Nos. 263 (text 2), 264, 266 and 269 (text 2). In short, I think I can say, even for what I have heard, that there is a red thread that crosses them and unites them all; even with different accents and nuances, all arise from the shared need to defend the national heritage, the history that it represents and the memory that it handed down to us. It is therefore something collective, shared, communitarian, common sense of belonging and pride. I would add that in all the motions there is - in my opinion - the desire - perhaps, let me say, even accentuated by the crisis that we are going through - to restore meaning and value to everything around us, to everything we have received and that all too often we have not been able to respect enough, from the environment to the artistic heritage. It is then perhaps time to overthrow the negative paradigms and the spirit of unanimity that I hope we have in this House today could strengthen this will. As is well known, beauty will save the world. The phrase is obviously not mine, but it is the title of a famous book. But if beauty saves the world, it will save us too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u158	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, I will certainly be quick and quick, partly because it is good to see that there are some issues where we can find convergence and cross-cutting in this House. I think that, on a theme so characterizing the Italian identity, such as the historical, artistic, cultural and environmental heritage of our country, it is nice to see that in the different motions there are points that return and questions that reappear. There is therefore a transversal political will to strengthen this area, this sector, in order to better protect not only the works and the heritage, but also those who work there. Allow me to make some quick references to passages of some motions, and not only to what my Group has signed up to, but also to those of others, who take up the same themes. On the one hand, we have a country certainly rich in large tourist poles, but also extremely rich in villages, of what is defined as the minor Italy, which still knows how to offer great opportunities to tourists as well as, of course, to residents; a lesser Italy that definitely deserves great attention, and not only for recovery interventions, but also for those of redevelopment, which must go in the direction of promoting better residentiality, precisely because they are centers not only to visit, but must also be places to live, live places, to be admired and enjoy from a cultural and tourist point of view. On the other hand, there is the theme of opera and symphony music: a great heritage of our country that, precisely in the current difficult phase, risks coming out heavily impressed by the impossibility that we know well to be able to fully enjoy shows and works. The artists who work in this field deserve, therefore, great support. We must then face a great challenge, that of live performances, with the possibility of enhancing and improving, simplifying, this kind of opportunity. In the last parliamentary term a specific bill was approved by the Chamber of Deputies in this direction, which then remained stuck and deserved to be resumed and, precisely because of the conditions we are living, relaunched. Then there is the theme of education. We need to educate our young people, starting from schools, to the extraordinary value of our historical-artistic heritage, which - as I said at the beginning of this intervention - helps to build the identity of our country. Finally, resources: of course, all these important and interesting things cannot be put in place unless we have new and also significant resources. It is regrettable that in our country regional and municipal administrations are struggling to operate in such a way as to make full use of the resources that Europe already makes available to us. European funds for culture often remain inactive because of the inability to draw from them through the calls: it would be useful for provincial administrations - for example - to make themselves available to local authorities with the creation of specific offices dedicated precisely to drawing up the resources that European calls make available. In this way we could help local administrations to push on projects dedicated to the culture and the historical, artistic, cultural and environmental heritage of our country. Italy Viva will vote in favour of the motions he has signed and of course those that have received the favorable opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u159	Mr President, I am very pleased that we are debating the motions before us today, because the protection of historic centres, real estate and intangible assets is central to the issue we are dealing with. I am glad that the Government takes responsibility for responding favourably to the motions that we will vote in agreement with it, because they are all important and bearers of fundamental values, which, precisely at this stage of economic recovery and development, we must not forget. Who are we Italians? When we think of Italians, Italy, the beautiful country, what comes to mind? Certainly many of us think about scientific development and technique, but above all what we have in mind is an image: the landscape and the historical-artistic heritage of our nation. This is the case for all citizens who come from abroad to Italy: it is true that we have beautiful coasts, marvellous seas and works of art of recall, as well as beautiful is the structural fabric of our heritage also diffused, as has been said several times. President Ciampi, in May 2003, linked Article 9 of the Constitution to identity: this is fundamental, because from that article 9 of the Constitution, which puts the State to protect these goods, we draw the concept of identity and of what we are in the depths and keep of our image. All intangible assets need a local visual fabric, a genius loci in which to settle and put roots and anchor to. All our small common areas, consolidated historical centers (not only large and bound ones or monumental beauties, but also small settlements) are fundamental to our identity. As one of my colleagues rightly said, it must be an active protection, which leads to the use of this heritage by all citizens, to which it gives development, in accordance with Article 9 of the Constitution, because the Republic must promote its development and must protect the landscape. At the same time as it pushes to give it strength, it must preserve it and protect it, but it is not a static preservation in the past, but an active conservation, identity and value. An amendment to Article 9 for the incorporation into the Constitution of the right to the environment, which must necessarily be linked to the right to health, is under discussion in the First Senate Commission, because we cannot think of having a right to health without a right to the environment, which is linked to the landscape. In the 13th Commission we have a draft law on the protection of historic centres and historic complexes, which is of primary importance. We also have a draft law on the stoppage of agricultural land consumption and the protection of the landscape. They are three fundamental pieces that we need to create a barrier to an ongoing attack, that we cannot deny and that comes from globalization, that is from a culture that tends to level everything, to standardize everything, to make us all equal and poorer. We must remember that this is the collective heritage, it is what makes us rich, and the only thing that makes us rich is the common good. Such good is also attacked by climate change, but above all by a neoliberal idea of sale and commodification that began in the 1990s and never stopped. The State cannot forget to be the guarantor of this heritage and Article 117 (2) (s) of the Constitution reminds it. This is also a specific duty with respect to regional laws on urban planning, because it is an attack on the territory that happens continuously and has no rest. Judgment No 151 of 1986 of the Constitutional Court expressed the fundamental concept that, according to Article 9 of the Constitution, the priority of protected goods cannot be subordinated to any other value, even to economic value. Yet, the Regions continue to legislate without the State taking care of those territories; so it happens that the rural complex Zaccaria in Giugliano, of the eighteenth century, on a sixteenth-century plant and on Roman remains, is demolished because it had no constraint, to make room for a private residential center; as happened for the liberty villas of Rome. We cannot allow it, because we are there, we are that; yet, due to the emergency Covid, which also becomes the gremaldello for urban laws, the regional law n. 13 of 2020 of Piedmont in urban matters and the urban law bell were approved. It's a looting of the territory. The revival - I ask the Government to pay attention at this point - cannot be in the assault and commodification of the collective heritage. This is an old logic, from the 1950s, and the government is now making a commitment to the motions in question. And we must relaunch this collective heritage with maintenance, protection, recovery and fruition. And we must ensure that measures such as the Decree-Law on Simplification or the Law on Fast Italy do not go in any other direction, because they would contradict everything that has been said and all the commitments made by our Government even in Europe before the Covid crisis. I refer to those statements that Confindustria did not like when they were made, until January of this year. We would not want the fear of not being able to do it from an economic point of view to make mistakes like in the post-war period, when we went, with the reconstruction plans, to destroy much of our heritage. We therefore welcome the essential performance levels, the use plans, the maintenance plans, the measures for recovery, the promotion of knowledge in schools. And let's ask for more funds for professionalism, to strengthen supervision, to give the professionalism of the sector more strength and competence, to be included also in the technical offices. We can only speed up if the superintendents, technical offices and civilian genes are competent. Level assumptions will have to be made to ensure that protection is not an obstacle, but an incentive to improve and move forward. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u162	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, at the heart of our motion there is work, there is the fate of thousands of workers and workers of culture, which is not their personal fact, but concerns all of us, our country. It concerns the ambition we have for our future and for that of the new generations; what place we want to occupy in the world, if that of a country that is confident of itself, of its own values and potential, and is able to conquer spaces of market and democracy for the strength of innovation, creativity, cultural know-how, which make our craftsmanship unique, which make it fundamental added value for our manufacturing, for fashion, for our made in Italy; a country recognized, respected, within, precisely, for the enormity of its artistic and cultural heritage. It is for this reason that we strongly say that it is no longer permissible for thousands of workers of culture to be invisible, forced to live their passion, their hope without any certainty, between a thousand impediments and frustrations; forced to continuously pursue a life project that never takes place, between work in black, atypical contracts by freelance, intermittent, VAT matches, occasional workers or the day, in a time that passes inexorable and then throws out, after years of wasted investments and mortifying talents of which instead our country and our society have extreme need. In this uneasiness of the workers of culture there is the image of a country that does not believe in itself or perhaps never believed in it. And we can't pretend anything, especially at the moment when the Covid emergency squadernas in all its irreducible truths evidence. And these twists were there even before the virus arrived and, moreover, the absolutely important efforts made by the government not to leave anyone alone were so huge and complicated precisely because of the difficulty of mapping in many areas the workers of culture. For this reason the crisis requires us to rethink, to redefine our cultural system, correcting deviances, breaking down dominant positions that condition, suffocate; breaking down walls that prevent access to so many innovative and vital energies; overcoming the structural limits of a system that is too closed, too exclusive. Culture is above all a job and must be a job with full dignity, it must be safe and just. And for this reason we ask for a statute of cultural and creative work, which starts from the recognition of the status of the artistic professions and is able to design a system of rights, social protections, building a universal network of welfare that is specific, defining - we ask in this motion - essential levels of homogeneous performance among the Regions; that is what we have been asked for in the hearings forcefully these days in the Senate. The crisis triggered by Covid multiplies territorial and social inequalities and inequalities; it affects, above all, the unsuited, the self-employed and small cultural enterprises, with market distortions already existing but now amplified and dramatic. That is why we need intervention to support independent productions, recognizing their specificity. In our motion there is all this, because cultural heritage is not made of watertight compartments, but is something alive and dynamic; it is an active process, it is capacity to build civitas and there is, in this capacity, a very strong link between cultural good and territorial community, which lies precisely in the ability to take care of cultural heritage through the widespread participation of citizens and volunteering. The protection is not only reserved for the employees, but is also based on the protagonism of many citizens and this is good, it is civicism that nourishes memory, awareness, sense of identity, which makes cultural goods a great common good. It is an idea of open and non-elite culture. However, there is one theme that we recall in the motion: it is essential that there be a virtuous management of volunteering and not abuse, not surreptitious use to the detriment of the tasks and recognition of the professional figures of cultural heritage, which must instead be strengthened. For this reason we ask the Government to start a process of regulation of volunteering of cultural assets, ensuring respect for the roles between professionals and volunteers and excluding, once and for all, the use of cultural volunteering in place and as a solution to the shortage of staff, ensuring the protection of workers, the quality and the offer of cultural services. Mr President, in conclusion, all the motions - we shall vote on them with the proposed rewordings - although different from each other, are very important because they have the merit of politicizing and parliamentaryizing a debate on culture that is difficult to grow among the professionals and in public opinion, but which is also fundamental because it concerns our inalienable heritage, which is our idea of society, our idea of democracy, that from an archive or a museum lives in a theater, in a cinema, in a reading in the square, in the music that plays in a courtyard and expresses and encloses the meaning of our civilization: freedom and emancipation, what we are and cannot lose for any reason. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u165	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, fellow senators, the content of the motions has been well illustrated by Mr Aimi. Here it is not only a question of depreciating the fact that Italy, although it has the richest cultural and artistic heritage in the world; although it has the largest number of sites declared by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site, it is in Europe, after Greece, the country that spends the least on culture. It is a damage not only to an industrial sector, because culture is an industrial sector; not only to tourism, because culture is the natural driving force of tourism; but it is a damage to identity, a word which I have heard Mr Nugnes mention earlier, and which - in my opinion - is central to our debate. Who had read the last book, recently translated, by Francis Fukuyama entitled "Identities." The search for dignity and new populisms is aware of how the cultural identity of individuals, nations, peoples and communities is central to the good growth of individuals and communities and also knows how much this word is now proscribed for a number of issues that would be long to address here. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is a problem, because just as the alternative to religion is not the triumph of the goddess reason - as some desperate illuminist believes - but superstition, in the same way the alternative to patriotism is not peace and harmony among peoples, but unbridled nationalism. It is therefore a matter of reappropriating those elements that constitute our identity, first and foremost everything that has to do with culture, history and the past, and to be legitimately proud of it. It is not a right-wing speech; I could quote dozens of reactionary or conservative intellectuals in support of the thesis, but I will quote Simone Weil and Antonio Gramsci. Simone Weil writes that rooting is perhaps the most important and most unknown need of the human soul; when he speaks of rooting, he means precisely the proximity to the cultural identity of a people. Antonio Gramsci wrote that a justification for the nullity of the present is implicit in the devaluation of the past. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are cutting our roots one after the other; the past is systematically devalued; we have fallen into an eternal present made of void and nothing. All this alludes to a nihilistic subculture that brings nothing good to anyone. How did we get to all this? We have arrived over the decades, because we have just talked about it, but the phenomenon of political correctness is ancient. I remember a wonderful book by an art historian, as well as literature, "The culture of whining" by Robert Hughes, who put to the sedan the subculture of political correctness that was already rampant at the time in universities and in American society, made of taboos and conformisms that nullified the essence of culture (in that case American, but perhaps of culture in general). That phenomenon is now crossed with the instances of civil rights movements that are more than legitimate and more than acceptable in themselves. It is clear that any decent person, of liberal and democratic culture, can only hope that each person's rights will be recognized as such regardless of the diversity of race, religion and culture. These movements, however, are pervading themselves and are taking on a nihilistic force and impulse (in the literal sense), with the claim not to create the conditions for a civil coexistence, but to erase history. We laugh, we look at with detachment and with enough what happens on the other side of the ocean, but this subculture is getting wide and has already made way also in Italian society, because stupidity is contagious and spreads with great ease. I remember gruesomely listening with my ears to the choir that inaugurated the Expo in Milan. It was 2015 and the national anthem was sung, no less than the national anthem. Some well thought-out enlightened thought to see him again in a pacifist key and therefore the famous "siam ready for death" (which alludes to the tragedy) became an ignoble and deadly (that yes) "siam ready for life". I remember that in the Florence of Mayor Nardella, in the noble and authoritative setting of the Florentine May, it was thought well to rewrite in anti-feminicide key the "Carmen" of Bizet; so poor Carmen in that case does not die, because a wrong message would be sent to society, as if one went to see the "Carmen" of Bizet and then killed his wife, girlfriend or any woman met on the street. Some would like to ban Dante Alighieri because islamophobe. We talk periodically about the need, according to some, to remove the symbols and traces of the fascist regime: monuments, statues, obelisks - even rationalist architecture, according to some - is in contrast to the sensitivity of the present - up to the defacement of the statue of Montanelli in Milan. It seems that Montanelli, as a young officer of the Italian colonial army in Eritrea, has taken as his wife a Eritrean minor; which, of course, with our sensitivity today, makes us more or less horror. But, in today's sensibility, judging the past with the ethical categories of the present is a mistake, because it prevents understanding and understanding the past and leads to true monstrosity with respect to history and with respect to identity. This is what I believe we should fight, because this way of doing things is typical of dictatorial regimes and religious fundamentalist systems. And we, who do not have particular sympathy for the dictatorships of the twentieth century, nor particular affinity with contemporary theocracies, should have the moral strength and civil courage to oppose us, in the name of our history, because history is disenchanted and revisited, but we do not cancel if we have respect for ourselves because - as the singer said - at the bottom of the story we are us. Therefore, the request to the Government is to do everything possible to ensure that in these years of legislature the public expenditure on Italian culture is at least aligned with the European media and that everything that belongs to our historical, cultural, artistic and monumental identity is protected, remembering also the opportunity - as my colleague Mr Aimi said - to deal with an aspect that seems unpleasant, but necessary: the penal code. The Hague Convention classifies as war crimes and crimes against humanity the suppression of symbols or works of national ingenuity and art. The arrangement was written in 1954, when one did not really come to conceive that the threat to a national monument could come from others, except from a foreign army. Times have changed - not for the better - and today the threat comes from within our own national borders. So, I'm asking for inspiration from that card to review our penal code. I am very pleased that these issues, which someone, by misunderstanding the whole thing, could classify as biased, have become wide and cross-cutting in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u168	ALESSANDRINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, a truly effective protection of our cultural heritage goes through two fundamental aspects: on the one hand, the protection of works of art from vandalism and from the other numerous criminal conducts carried out against our artistic heritage, through a set of ad hoc norms that severely punish the authors; on the other hand, the use of the most advanced technologies able to support the processes of diagnostic monitoring and sustainable use of cultural goods, that are to take into account both the mutations of the surrounding environment and the characteristics of users, in order to optimize the enjoyment of a cultural environment. With regard to the first aspect, we all remember the unfortunate episode of August 2015: the horrendous act of vandalism perpetrated against the fountain of the Barcaccia del Bernini in Piazza di Spagna in Rome. I don't think there was a single Italian citizen who didn't feel personally wounded by that demented act, perpetrated free of charge by some foreign fans, who paid almost nothing because the Italian judge couldn't trial them because they had already been tried in the Netherlands. However, even if they had been convicted, under current legislation, they would have risked up to a maximum of one year's imprisonment for damage and a fine of no less than about EUR 2,000. This is ridiculous and demeaning and this is certainly not the only case. Unfortunately, there are not so few moments in which we witness episodes of rudeness, ignorance and civilization: those who bathe in the fountains, those who climb the monuments, those who seriously disfigure an inestimable heritage for our country. This is ridiculous. We are calling for sanctions and financial penalties to be tightened if they really are to act as a deterrent to prevent such acts from happening again. It is known that the abusive market of excavations and archaeological and pictorial goods stolen often ends up in the underground circuit. Sometimes the artifacts are even put on sale in the official auctions of important houses, generally foreign. In our view, sanctions should also be applied to legal persons who market these works unduly removed from their national heritage. The State on the other hand - we are very focused on this, because we have also held hearings on this matter - should stand by those associations and foundations that, on the contrary, protect and enhance works of art, also giving great support to all territorial fabrics. Our artistic heritage is threatened by organized crime that has made digging and recipeing an important business of its own activity. I too, like my colleague, thank the Carabinieri Command for the protection of cultural heritage, because it is thanks to their work that we have managed to trace many of our stolen treasures. The database of cultural objects illegally stolen reports some very worrying data: in 2018, almost 800,000 works of art stolen, 1,200,000 seizures of archaeological finds and almost 300,000 falsified goods, with 1,200 arrests and 36,000 complaints. In addition to intervening with internal rules in this area, it is necessary to ratify the 2017 Nicosia Convention, which has also been signed by Italy together with eight other countries, in order to adapt our legal system to the principles set out in it and which aim to tighten the sanctioning apparatus in the matter of crimes against cultural heritage. In addition, the current criminal protection of Italian historical and cultural heritage has some shortcomings. In particular, it is unconsistent, divided between the penal code and the code of cultural goods. It is of fundamental importance that, in the event that there is a conviction for one of the cases such as theft, requisition, illegal export, damage or impalement, the measure of compulsory confiscation of both the goods that are produced or profited from the crime, and the things that are used to commit it, be imposed. I too am an enthusiast of artistic and cultural heritage and I believe that the protection of works of art in general should not depend on a historical period. The starting point is the moment of recognition of the work of art as such. A work of art is not only an object of historical importance, but a historical moment that becomes matter and in which a national culture is recognized. We need to talk more about it, we need to start training students, because our artistic heritage must not be the heritage of a few lovers. Our artistic heritage is the mirror and portrait of our nation, its history, its present and its future. The care and attention we place on our cultural heritage is the thermometer of our civic and cultural level, so we need certain rules and sanctions. Colleagues - and I am also addressing the Government - I believe that a subject such as the protection of cultural heritage should not have a political color. We must all strive to preserve our historical-artistic treasures, which are put to the test not only by time, but more and more often by the hand of man. And only in this way, by protecting our past and our traditions, will we preserve our future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u171	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow senators, I take the floor to share some general considerations with this House before expressing my Group's intention to vote in favour of the motion on the artistic heritage presented by Senator Montevecchi. I would like to begin by recalling to your memory points 20 and 27 of this Government's programme, presented just ten months ago, although it seems that centuries have passed since the alienating experience of the pandemic. In these points, the themes related directly or indirectly to cultural heritage were discussed. In point 27 we spoke about it in relation to the promotion of multiform tourist routes that enhance - I quote to the letter - the richness of our natural, historical, artistic and cultural heritage, also through the recovery of the oldest identities and local traditions. The reference ended with the unmistakable consideration, but in general truth, according to which the preservation and enhancement of the artistic and cultural heritage of the country are priority objectives of government action. I have defined it as a generic consideration for the absence of any reference to the conservation of the heritage in function of the development of culture and scientific research, as instead plastically detectable by the coordinated reading of paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the Constitution, which identifies the protection of the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation as inescapable duties of the Republican State, with paragraph 1 of the same article, which finalizes the protection to the promotion and development of culture and research. This shortcoming, at such a high level, was the result, in my opinion, of the imposition in Italian society of an instrumental vision of the heritage, intended in purely economical and - I dare say - mercantile function. Do we want to blame it on the Berlusconism that genetically modified us all? Everyone will have his explanation, but the fall of moral tension and cultural impoverishment of the country are objective data and the crisis of the public school has a lot to do with it. That gap could not fail to raise doubts in absolute terms and in relation to the government program itself, especially in the face of a speech by the President-in-Office in charge who, by inflaming the hearts of humanists, had made explicit reference to the need for this country for a new Renaissance. Well, I remind myself, the Renaissance was the result and - I would say - the flourishing, in creative and sensibility terms, of Humanism, characterized by the rediscovery of the classical world through the study and investigation of texts. It was disconcerting, therefore, that the foreshadowing as the objective of this Government the impulse towards a new Renaissance did not foresee any programmatic passage centered on a new Humanism, that is, on the protection of the patrimony understood not as mere conservation, but as study and use of the patrimony itself for purposes eminently of knowledge and cultural growth. These are the reasons why many today mourn the heart still seeing closed archives and libraries and a third of the museums. It was very unpleasant not only for me, having the Movimento always a different approach, to grasp in the repeated reference to this heritage only in an instrumental key and as an attractor of tourist flows, possibly seven figures, ancient reverberations of the idea of cultural heritage as oil of Italy, that is, the shortcut for an enrichment easy to reach everyone and guaranteed by the mere commercial offer of our memories and our past, according to an approach that risked seeing us prone to the desired tourist, instead of architects of our future through and thanks to the creative stimuli deriving from the in-depth knowledge of what has been and extraordinary testimonies by number and quality that the past has left on our territory. These are the very reasons for the preference of international tourism for our country. I will not be here giving figures or, better, percentages, as some of my most daring colleagues have done. It is simply not calculable to the extent that the Italian artistic and cultural heritage is absolutely and in comparison with other countries. Those who venture into pseudo-statistics agree to base themselves on inconsistent assumptions, i.e. the number of real estate listed in the UNESCO World Heritage List. For the record, we are still first with 54, but China beats us with 53. It is such an unreliable criterion that, if we adopt it for intangible cultural assets, we would be forced to admit a surprising minority compared to many other states for the simple reason that we have begun to recognise value to intangible cultural assets. Since 2011, each country can only apply for a new intangible asset every year. So Achilles doesn't pass the turtle. Personally, I promised myself that I would be vigilant in order to avoid the dreaded drift last autumn and denounce every warning, as I did then. The fears of the eve have indeed proved to be well founded: the heritage as a tool for other purposes and as oil continues to have, even at the ministerial summit, its champion, but the case has put us in the foot and the pandemic from Covid-19 has stirred up the cards. That drift can be stopped today. The painful crisis of tourism, the same tourism, however, that has haunted our main cities of art and has devoured Venice, can and must impose a healthy rethinking of the reasons why in this country for at least two hundred years it has made itself really protection and valorization of the artistic and cultural heritage. Protection and valorisation go only in this order, but both have the objective of ensuring the use of cultural goods to all citizens, now recognized as essential service. Why ensure the use? Because, by nourishing the sense of belonging and the feeling of national identity, cultural dynamics generate new culture. In today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, we are all called upon to give a signal in relation to a crucial decision: either to continue on that path, but to put adequate resources in place, or to admit without hypocrisies that we no longer recognize ourselves in these objectives and to renounce to pursue them only on paper, emptied of meaning, as we are, unfortunately, getting used to doing. If I want to give a concrete and current example, I am thinking of PNR 2020, where, among the priorities set out in the area of cultural heritage, there is practically no protection. At least two hundred years ago, I said, referring to the edict Pacca of 1820, a common ancestor of the laws of pre-unitarian and post-unitarian protection. All too often, in fact, we forget that it was culture that made Italy, in competition with geography, but well before history and politics. And let us forget that Rome has rightly played a leading role in this process forever. Defining a policy of protecting the cultural heritage of Rome, considered in its historical stratification - an objective overshadowed in point 20) of the government program - is an absolute necessity. In fact, in the capital it is necessary to put an embankment to the transformations of the construction of the late nineteenth-early twentieth century, but the same archaeological evidence of Rome are subjected to continuous aggressions. In short, strict vigilance is required. The Ministry should endow the Capital with a general managerial superintendence and entrust its guidance to an inflexible person in pursuing the public interest. Rome, however, is also the mirror of the country, where a slanderous policy of cuts has almost zeroed over the years the recruitments in the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, to which almost 10,000 units are missing today, and can certainly not replace the volunteering, removing in fact the personnel of the unified territorial offices - replicating the error already committed in the twenties of the twentieth century - the possibility of working with due diligence on a widespread heritage, which requires a sense of individual and collective responsibility, loving care as continuous, threatened and plundered as it is - especially if we speak of movable goods - even by criminals who are the head of criminal organizations which the international traffic of works of art now fruits almost as much as that of weapons. It is in everyone's eyes that historical, urban and rural construction, in the absence of a strategic plan that preserves it, encouraging it, or at least making recovery more convenient than substitution, risks disappearing in a few years. Even the sunny - as unsuspecting - firefighters, called to avoid the dangers to public safety caused by the ruination resulting from the lacked restorations (you will have seen what happened two days ago in Casaletto Lodigiano, but it happens everywhere) and, on the other hand, the palazzinari ready to exploit the gaps of the constraints both in the historical centers and outside the inhabited. The assault brought today to the landscape, then, especially in southern Italy, comes from the same spiritual poverty that fails to recognize dignity to artistic goods, if not in proportion to their ability to attract tourist flows, therefore to generate profits. The pandemic, which, however, has reset foreign tourist flows, forces us today to look for new reasons to act, to decide what we want to do with our blasphemy cultural heritage and to do so in concrete terms in the daily life, in Rome as in the last of the other 8,000 Italian municipalities. The aspiration for a new Humanism - affirmed at the time by the President-in-Office of the Council - is, therefore, really at the heart of government action. It must be a shared and transversal objective; it must be a concrete opportunity that commits the Executive, but I would like to say the whole Assembly, to vote on the motion at the first signature of my colleague Montevecchi to give the signal of a reversal of trend, and immediately after acting in the direction that we all hope, recognizing, that is, in the artistic heritage and its conservation an indispensable component of our DNA of Italians. I therefore declare the vote in favour of motion 263 (text 2). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u172	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 258 (text 2), tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 263 (text 2), tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u175	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are asking for the split vote on the third point of the premises of motion 264, which refers to the Lighthouse Convention. As you know, we, as League, have voted against ratification and we consider it potentially negative. So, in order to be able to vote on the motion, we call for this point to be deleted, given that we are talking about the exploitation of national heritage. Otherwise, we could not support the motion, for which we would like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u176	On motion No 264, a split vote was requested. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 264 tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators, with the exception of point 3 of the premises. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of point 3) of the premises of motion 264, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 266 tabled by Senator Borgonzoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 269 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u179	PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, after a field day like today's, the subject I want to talk to you about may seem trivial. I want to talk about boars and wolves. If you met a wild boar or a head-to-head wolf, maybe those who are against their killing would change their mind. They're dangerous to people. Too many facts have involved people, animals, flocks, private property. If I think of the demonstration of November-December last in Piazza Montecitorio, in which the Minister of Agriculture - I say this in the manner of the First Republic - and several senators made statements of commitment, I want to say that we have forgotten the issue too quickly with regard to the gravity of this issue. When politics says that we have to monitor, that we have to see, that we will see, that we will do, that there is no result. Now, I believe that the wild boars in Italy are at least a million (but I am wrong by default) and that the wolves are several thousand, that they have been inserted by man with positive purposes, but that then they have multiplied too much, not having natural antagonists. The proposal, then, is a first-rate intervention by the Army, which drastically reduces these numbers. I add one more premise, even if they are at the end: it is not a matter of center-right or center-left; it is a subject of personal sensitivity, even of those who are, perhaps, environmentalists and animalists, and of concreteness. Or the government can support a bill. I entrust myself to you, Mr President - if the speeches at the end of the sitting make sense (and I want to think that they do) - so that you can promote yourself to the Government. I will once again send the bill presented by me to other senators to all my colleagues in the coming days, so that it can be incardinated and discussed and can lead, with the appropriate changes to national laws and, cascade, to the Regions and the Provinces, to some result with respect to this problem, which is serious and serious. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u180	Senator Even, if we rely on the bill, I'm afraid the timing is not compatible with the needs of an emergency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u183	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, my speech today is to bring to the attention of this House what has happened in Val di Susa in recent days. This area of Piedmont, with a strong tourist vocation and the merit of having introduced Turin and its valleys to the whole world, thanks to the 2006 Winter Olympics, by two lustres is now at the forefront of the news only and exclusively for the disputes at the yard of Chiomonte. Manifesting democratically for what is believed is a dogma for us of the League, but over the years peaceful resident protesters have been replaced by anarcho-insurrectionalists. My speech at the end of the session in July is now a fixed appointment, because in July the No TAV Camp takes place, which on time ends with the attack on the construction site. Among the participants of the event, there are members of the social centers of Turin, Milan, Bologna, Oltralpe, but also former first-line terrorists and red brigades. [[Applause]] Over the years, the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Turin has issued more than a thousand warranty notices for crimes ranging from vandalism to attempted murder. 2020, however, showed a violent escalation of unprecedented and unexpected gravity: the attempted massacre. Tempted massacre, because spreading the emergency lanes of the A32 Turin-Bardonecchia highway of Roman tribulation nails to cause accidents is from murderers in pectore or from dementi. Only for a case of chance and for the professionalism of the Forces of the Order did a fatal accident occur. However, more than one police vehicle has been bumped and some have gone bumping into the guard rail. Several cars of citizens, families on vacation, motorbikes have pierced the tires skipping and risking the tragedy. How much patience will Valsusini still have? All this with the noisy silence of the Government and Minister Lamorgese, as demonstrated by the press releases of almost all the unions of Police. It is therefore necessary to intervene quickly in a drastic way, in order to prevent these episodes from happening again. It is no longer acceptable to allow the organization of rallies and camps aimed solely at attacking the yard and the police; it is no longer acceptable to allow members of this majority to support the work of these violent fringes, justifying them and criticizing the Forces of Order. All forms of legitimate justification and foment further violence. Never before is it necessary and desirable to make the forces of order feel the proximity of the State (that of the population for good they already have). Hard fist and certain penalties against those who use the High Speed and its shipyards as totems, but who actually want to attack the State through its institutions. He denounces for attempted massacres the authors of the crazy gesture of the A32 and for the launch of paper bombs against police officers in the garrison of the yards. All because the life of a policeman or a military man is not worth less than ours, in fact. And the message must come to everyone loud and clear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u186	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, I bring to the attention of the House yesterday's news: in the province of Milan, a four-year-old girl positive at Covid-19 has been under house arrest for four months. The child is a prisoner of the health regulations for the containment of the contagion: the health authorities believe that it is no longer a danger to others, but, as stated by the mother, it needs a double negative buffer to free it. This little girl then, who has been a prisoner for four months, in the one hundred and twenty days she initially had symptoms related to the Covid: on March 24 she had a high fever and the doctors had established however that she had no lung problems and sent her home without testing; then her mother asked to give her the swab, which was weakly positive; there are four other tests, which give results one the opposite of the other (weak, negative and positive), all concentrated in one month and with the hope of course that the child could get out. In this regard, I would like to remind you that in the hearing here at the Senate Professor Ippolito of the Hospital Lazzaro Spallanzani, when I asked him what the reliability of the swab test is, he replied that it depends on the quality of the cotton that is on the so-called cotton fioc and above all he added that unfortunately it is not high because it is done on saliva and not on blood. Mom says her daughter is tormented by nightmares, wakes up screaming, talks about monsters and bad doctors, starts showing behavioral disorders, doesn't want to get touched or get in the car. Everyone has confirmed to her that the child is no longer contagious, but no one has assumed the responsibility to release her. Mother asks for other elements to be evaluated for the end of quarantine. I take it in conclusion to remember that in Holland, since the beginning of the lockdown, which was different in Italy (because we had one all Italian) on the website of the Ministry of Health it says: do you think you have the coronavirus? The authorities respond: if you feel better and have no symptoms for 24 hours you are healed, then you can no longer infect others. Since in Holland - where, if you didn't have symptoms, you were cured - the deaths of 1,000 inhabitants are less than half of the Italian ones, I think the right version is just that and so, if you don't have symptoms, you can get out and not infect anyone. I would like to address you, Mr President, and the Minister for Health: the logic of quarantine must be reviewed; please, let's find a solution, maybe let's get her out with the mask, but let's free this little girl. It is a serious fact: thanking the Presidency and all my colleagues, I hope that this will be resolved soon.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u189	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the incident in Bari, which saw the parents of a newborn abandon him in the thermal cradle of a church, together with only a note bearing the following words: We will love him forever, he strikes everyone deeply for the serious condition of uneasiness and suffering of the parents, but also for the upheaval of social life in which the general problems, economic difficulties and cultural contrasts unfortunately create the environment and the conditions favorable to the occurrence of facts such as the one mentioned, which will certainly not be the last. What has been mentioned brings to mind the sad images, unfortunately quite frequent, of abandoned babies, often with the umbilical cord still attached, in the garbage bins or on a bench of public gardens, exposed to cold, rain, heat or possible infections due to poor hygiene, at a particular time of their lives. All this often puts their own safety at risk. Then come these initiatives of thermal cradles, which we could define as cradles for life or social cradles, in which the newborn can be left in safety and anonymity and from there receive the appropriate assistance and care, not only medical, with drugs and milk, but above all a psychological support, a loving caress, a friendly smile, a gesture of love. I almost remember with nostalgia the wheel of the exhibits of the Annunziata hospital in Naples (where I work), today a historical heirloom that however many stories more or less to happy ending lived and could tell. In the wheel the many little ones Esposito was left with so much love and hope to receive the care and concrete help needed to survive that their parents were unable to give them. In my opinion, the possibility of offering a thermal cradle, a concrete shelter in the various birth points or structures that voluntarily offer themselves as churches, in which, when family conditions are so severely compromised and upset, parents can leave these little innocent creatures, saving their lives, can and must be a concrete and feasible solution and response. These supertechnological cradles, which we could call modern wheels of the exhibits, are already about 50 throughout the national territory, located in different health facilities or hospitals. All we need is more widespread and widespread information. Certainly the economic, psychological and guiding support of public structures is the solution that should be pursued, but it obviously needs careful programming, able to recognize family situations at risk and to give effective and concrete support to raise them. When this is not possible because of bureaucratic pasties, bad organization or complexity of the family picture, offering a temporary shelter to the little baby is to be taken seriously, in order to avoid the small great tragedies that occur not only in our country. We don't just give speeches or sermons that leave the time they find. Everyday life often puts us in the face of difficult choices. We must never forget, however, that at the heart of every decision and of every responsibility must be placed before the child's interest, infant or infant, whether [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u192	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the spread of Covid-19 infection remains a very serious problem and it is news these days that there have been over 250,000 new cases of Covid in 24 hours worldwide: it is the new record of infection in one day. The general data speak of more than 15 million positive cases and more than 600,000 deaths in the world; in the very populous countries the incidence of pandemic spread is high and we remember that there has been a surge in the spread in the populations of the African continent, in the United States, in Brazil, India and Peru. The pandemic event has also affected our country, but thanks to the measures taken it has been possible to stem the problem, even if the potential of the resumption of the outbreaks remains open in case the behavioural norms are not respected. This tells us that we are in the middle of the fight against the virus, so it is essential to continue to maintain correct behavior: use of the mask, distance of at least one meter and frequent washing of the hands. Unfortunately, while passenger controls are being regulated at airports, ports and railway stations, the serious problem of the southern borders of Europe remains, especially along the Mediterranean coasts facing the African continent. In these countries containment measures can be applied with great difficulty compared to European, American or Asian countries. The reasons are due to the political problems (which often make the actions of governments or various dictatorships impossible) and of course to the socio-economic conditions in which the countries of the African continent live. In fact, poverty and poor hygiene are unfortunately determining factors for the spread of diseases and therefore also of the Covid-19. Moreover, the absence in many African countries of reliable data and statistics does not allow to have the real picture of the spread of the virus, so as to make the possibility of health intervention based on correct and effective prevention even more difficult. In view of this situation so burdensome, unfortunately, by means of venture and putting at risk their lives, migrants, hoping for a better life, flee from areas with famines and wars where death is certain and take the door of the South of Europe to arrive on our continent with dilapidated boats and, rescued at sea, land in the Pelagie Islands, Lampedusa and Linosa. These migrants are housed in overflowing hotspots and often manage to evade surveillance by fleeing. It is news of these hours that only in the hotspot of Lampedusa there are more than 500 migrants, with consequent possible serious health problems. Moreover, it turns out that from the above mentioned places the migrants are transferred to the city of Porto Empedocle, with obvious problems relative to the acceptance and the strong worry of the exhibitors and the population in general. In this regard it is noted that the mayor Ida Carmina has repeatedly highlighted the above mentioned problems that generate negative repercussions also on the tourist flow and therefore on the economic performance of the area in question. Sicily, therefore, once again is the frontier of Europe and, to the above mentioned, there is also the problem of ghost landings, with small boats that, being able to evade the controls at sea, can land on the coasts of Sicily without the slightest control and containment. Without prejudice to the reception of migrants, especially those fleeing from wars and famines, it is absolutely necessary to implement all those health control measures with buffer to quarantine the positives and take the necessary measures to avoid that there can be diffuse outbreaks that could frustrate all the efforts that the Italians have made. That is why we need a firm call from Parliament to the appropriate bodies so that tension and attention do not go down at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u193	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-243.ana.u194	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 23 July, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.07.
